DRN -3989436  
 
 
 
 
 
The complaint  
 
Mr W complains  about  a recommendation  made  by Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada 
(U.K) Limited (Sun Life) to take out a 10 -year savings plan in 2000.  
He is represented by a claims management company (CMC). It says the recommendation 
wasnt  suitable  for Mr W because  the plan contained  life cover,  which  it says he didnt  need 
as he was single with no dependants. The CMC says an ISA was a better alternative as it 
was more tax efficient, had greater flexibility and had lower charges.  
The CMC also says the funds the plan was invested in were mostly high -risk funds which it 
says were  too risky for Mr W. It doesnt  agree  with the assessment  of Mr Ws risk profile  and 
says there didnt appear to have been any discussion about risk.  
What happened  
 
Mr W met with an adviser  from Sun Life in 2000.  The adviser  recommended  that he take out 
a 10-year Maximum Savings Plan with a monthly contribution of £50. The adviser also 
issued a reasons why letter setting out the reasons for the recommendation.  
Mr W took out the plan.  It appears,  from the information  provided  by Sun Life to his 
represe ntative, that he surrendered the plan in 2003.  
In 2022  the CMC  complained  to Sun Life on Mr Ws behalf.  It said that Mr W didnt  need  the 
life cover included in the plan because he was single with no dependents.  
It said Mr W should have been advised to take out an Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
instead.  It noted  that type of  investment  offered  the option to transfer to a  fixed interest  fund. 
So it didnt  agree  with the explanation  given  in the reasons  why letter  for discounting  an ISA, 
namely  where  it said there  was no option  to transfer  to cash  in times  of high market  volatility.  
The CMC  also said that the funds  the plan was invested  in were  too risky for Mr W given  his 
circumstances at the time.  
Sun Life didnt  uphold  Mr Ws complaint.  It said that at the time the plan was taken  out Mr W 
had a medium to long term savings objective. Sun Life said his disposable income at the 
time suggested he could afford the monthly contribution of £50.  
Sun Life said that life cover  was built into the plan and made  it qualifying  for tax purposes.  It 
noted that Mr W had a life assurance shortfall. So it said the life cover provided by this plan 
could be used to pay for funeral expenses.  
 
 
 
Sun Life said  the different funds  available  posed  different  levels of  risk, but it said they  would 
have been selected by Mr W because its advisers werent allowed to advise on fund choice. 
It said the adviser could provide information about the different funds and the key features 
document  would  also provide  information  that would  have  made  Mr W aware  of the aims  and 
risks of each fund.  
The CMC  referred  Mr Ws complaint  to our service.  It reiterated  the points  of complaint.  
Our investigator  considered  Mr Ws complaint  and was of the view that it should  be upheld. 
He took into account Mr Ws circumstances and objectives at the time and was of the view 
that the funds selected posed more risk than Mr W was willing to take.  
The investigator was of the view that Mr W would have been willing and able to take a lo w 
level of risk with the money he had invested. So he said that Sun Life should compare the 
performance  of the plan with the performance  of a benchmark  using  a 50/50  combination  of 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index and the average rat e from fixed 
rate bonds.  
Sun Life didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It reiterated that when its advisers 
sold this type of plan,  they werent  allowed  to recommend  the investment  fund choice.  It said 
they were only able to provide informatio n to allow the client to make the fund choice.  
The investigator  noted  what  Sun Life had said about  its advisers  role but felt that given  
Mr Ws circumstances it was more likely than not, that he had discussed the funds with the 
adviser before a selection was made. He didnt think the assessment of Mr Ws risk profile 
was reasonable in the circumstances and said he was recommended an investm ent 
commensurate  with that risk profile,  so the advice  was unsuitable.  He also d idnt think Mr W 
needed the life cover contained within  the plan as he was single with no dependants.  
 
As no agreement  could  be reached  the complaint  was referred  to me for review.  
What Ive decided   and why 
 
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
To recap, Mr W met with an adviser in 2000. A personal financial planning profil e was 
completed  at the time which  recorded  that he was in his late forties,  single  and employed. 
Mr W didnt  own his own home  and he had a small  amount  of savings.  In the profile  it was 
recorded that he had a balanced/aggressive attitude to risk.  
A reasons  why letter  was issued  by the adviser  summarising  the advice  provided  and it 
recorded that Mr W had an objective of Regular savings. It stated:  
You want  to provide  a lump  sum in the medium  to long term through  a disciplined  method  of 
regular savings. You also have a shortfall in Life Cover.  
and 
I therefore  recommend  you take out a Maximum  Savings  Plan for a term of 10 years.  This 
will provide  you with a capital  sum at the end of the term.  It provides  a minimum  amount  of 
the anticipated savings on death within the term of £4,500, which will go towards your 
shortfall in this  area as  detailed  in the attached Financial  Objectives  page and  pay off your 
debts/funeral expenses on death.   
I am satisfied  on balance  that Mr W had a savings  objective  as recorded  in the summary  and 
I note he paid into the plan for a few years.  I think  it more  likely  than not that he was seeking 
to build up a capital sum a s he didnt have a significant amount of savings.  I consider a 
savings plan was a way of achieving this as it was a disciplined way of ensuring regular 
payments were made. In addition the illustration from the time indicated that the impact of 
charges stil l allowed a return to be made on the payments made into the plan.  
However, no clear purpose for building up that capital sum was recorded. So it isnt clear 
why Mr W wanted  to commit  to paying  premiums  for ten years.  I also note that the point  of 
sale documentation  indicates  that there  was an early  surrender  penalty  if he cashed  in the 
plan prior to the end of the term.  
Inclusion  of life cover  The CMC  says that as Mr W was single  with no dependants,  he had no need  of the life cover 
included in the savings plan.  
Life cover is included in this type of plan in order to make it qualifying for tax purposes, so 
the plan holder  doesnt  have  to pay any further  tax on maturity.  I think  that is a feature  that 
would have, in all likelihoo d, been attractive to Mr W.  
As life cover is an additional cost this will generally have an impact on the performance of 
the plan. However, as the amount of life cover here was relatively small - £4,500 - I dont 
think  it is more  likely  than not to have  had a significant  impact  on the performance  of Mr Ws 
plan.  And the illustration  from the time indicated  that taking  account  of the charges,  the plan 
would still be able to make a return.  
I can see there was reference in the reasons why letter to Mr W using the life cover for 
funeral  expenses  or to cover  debts,  but I dont  think,  given  his circumstances,  that he had a 
clear need for cover.  
While I dont think it is clear that Mr W needed th e life cover included in this plan, I am not 
persuaded  the inclusion  of the life cover,  of itself, meant  that the plan was unsuitable  for him. 
Level  of risk 
When  Mr W took out this savings  plan,  he didnt  have  any prior investment  experience  and 
the job he held at the time doesnt suggest that he wouldve had any other knowledge of 
investments.  
The financial  profile  indicates  that Mr W had some  disposable  income,  but it appears  that the 
recording  of his outgoings  and expenses  was fairly  limite d, as for instance,  premiums  he was 
paying for a protection plan werent included. So, I consider it more likely than not that, in 
reality, his disposable income was lower than recorded.  
Mr W didnt  own his own home  and he didnt  have  a significant  level of savings,  so I think  his 
assets were fairly limited. Given his financial situation and his lack of investment experience 
I am not persuaded on balance that he wanted to take a balanced to aggressive level of risk 
as identified in the pr ofile. I note the funds the plan was invested in included international 
equities which posed additional risk due to currency fluctuations.  
I note there was no reference to his attitude to risk in the reasons why letter and Im not 
persuaded  on balance  that he understood  the level of risk posed  by the funds  he invested  in. 
Overall, I dont think he would have chosen to take that level of risk if he had.  
Sun Life says its adviser was not allowed to recommend the funds, and they would be 
selected  by the indivi dual taking  out the plan.  So, it says Mr W would  have  chosen  the funds 
himself.  
While  I note the point  Sun Life makes,  I think  in this case,  there  was a clear  causal  link 
between the advice Mr W received and the funds his plan was invested in.  
In its response to the complaint Sun Life said  When your plan commenced in February 
2000  our agent  was required  to establish  your attitude  towards  investment  risk. Your  attitude 
towards risk were recorded as being balanced/aggressive . 
I can see that the financial profile was signed by the adviser and the consumer, and I 
consider  it more  likely  than not that they completed  the document  together,  with the adviser 
providing  guidance and advice where necessary. So I consider it more likely than not that 
the adviser assessed Mr Ws risk profile as being balanced/aggressive.  
I also take into account  that the financial  profile,  which  included  that risk assessment,  and 
the application form, which contained the fund selection, were both signed, and therefore 
completed, on the same day.  I also note there  was a default  fund if no selection  was made,  however  four separate  funds 
were  selected  for Mr Ws plan in equal  proportions:  the Green  Fund,  the UK Equity  Growth 
Fund the Perpetual Fund and the Far East Fund.  
Overall,  I consider  the selection  of these  funds  for Mr Ws plan was a direct  consequence  of 
the risk profile assessment by Sun Lifes adviser. Accordingly the end result was that Mr W 
was recommended a plan invested in funds that posed more risk than he was willing and 
able to take, and which was therefore unsuitable for him.  
I agree  with the investigator,  that taking  into account  his circumstances  and objectives,  Mr W 
would have been willing and able to take a low level of risk with the money he invested in 
order to try to achieve a return.  
Alternative investments  
I have  also considered  the CMCs assertion  that Mr W shouldve  been  recommended  an ISA 
instead of the MIP. While I think that an ISA was a potential alternative, I dont consider that 
there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mr W would otherwise have taken out an 
ISA. It seems  there was some discussion about ISAs at that time and Mr W indicated a 
preference for the discipline of making regular monthly payments.  
Summary  
Overall, I consider there are a combination of factors here that lead me to conclude that the 
recommended plan  was unsuitable for Mr W. Although I am satisfied that he had a savings 
objective I dont think there is anything to indicate he had a purpose or requirement for the 
ten-year saving term. I also dont think there was a clear need for the life cover given h is 
circumstances. Although as I have said, I consider the impact of its inclusion was likely to 
have  been  fairly  minimal.  I consider  the funds  invested  in posed  too much  risk for Mr W and I 
am satisfied there was a clear causal link between the advice he received regarding his risk 
profile and the four funds that were selected.  
 
Putting things right 
 
I am not persuaded, taking into account the limited information recorded at the time, and t he 
many years that have passed since the plan was taken out, that I can ascertain precisely 
what  investment  Mr W would  otherwise  have  invested  in but for the unsuitable  advice  to take 
out the MIP invested in the four funds.  
 
So, I think  it is reasonable  to say he would  have  invested  in another  investment  which  posed 
a low level of risk and that any compensation should be calculated by way of comparison 
with a benchmark as set out below.  
 
Fair compensation  
 
In assessing  what  would  be fair compensation,  I consider  that my aim should  be to put 
Mr W as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
 
I take the view that Mr W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what  he would  have  done  differently.  But I am satisfied  that what  I have  set out below  is fair 
and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
 
 
What must Sun Life do? 
 
To compensate Mr W fairly, Sun Life must:   Compare  the performance  of Mr W's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no compensation is 
payable.  
 
 Sun Life should  also add any interest  set out below  to the compensation  payable.  
Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  awarded.  
 
Investment 
name  Status  Benchmark  From  (start 
date)  To (end 
date)  Additional 
interest  
MIP No longer  For half the Date  of Date  ceased  8% simple  
 exists  investment:  investment  to be held per year on 
  FTSE  UK   any loss from 
  Private    the end date 
  Investors    to the date of 
  Income Total    settlement  
  Return     
  Index; for the    
  other  half:    
  average  rate    
  from fixed    
  rate bonds     
 
Actual  value  
 
This means  the actual  amount  paid from the investment  at the end date.  
 
Fair value  
 
This is what  the investment  would  have  been  worth  at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.  
 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Sun Life 
should  use the monthly  average  rate for one-year fixed -rate bonds  as published  by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that sho wn as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.  
 
Any additional  sum paid into the investment  should  be added  to the fair value  calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.  
 
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue  any return in the calculation  from that point  on. If there is  a large number  of regular 
payments,  to keep  calculations  simpler,  Ill accept  if Sun Life totals  all those  payments  and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting pe riodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.  
 
Why is this remedy suitable?  I have  decided  on this method  of compensation  because:  
 
 Mr W wanted  Capital  growth  with a small  risk to his capital.  
 
 The average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would  be a fair measure  for someone  who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.  
 
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index  (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing differ ent asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds.  It would  be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some  risk 
to get a higher return.  
 
 I consider  that Mr W's risk profile  was in between,  in the sense  that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that  
Mr W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of  index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly  reflects  the sort of return  Mr W could  have  obtained  from investments  suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.  
 
The additional  interest  is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation  money  since  the 
end date.  
 
My final decision  
 
I uphold  the complaint.  My decision  is that Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.) 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.  
 
Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited  should  provide  details  of its 
calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple format.  
 
Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  Im required  to ask Mr W to accept  or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.  
 
 
Julia Chittenden  
Ombudsman  