The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out during a 
meeting in 1999 in connection with their joint mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not 
be upheld because it looked like they were offered an optional policy, it was suitable for their 
needs and  although the information could have been clearer  they probably would have 
still bought the PPI.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. They added the following points:
The cost of the policy wasnt made clear  they were shocked to read recently they
had been paying £40 per month;
It was not affordable;
Mr W was self-employed and so the policy was not suitable for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Lloyds made Mr and Mrs W aware the policy was optional. They 
said there were no conversations about PPI, they were not aware PPI had been added to 
their mortgage account and they did not know it was optional.  
Ive been shown documents which Lloyds said were completed at or around the time of the 
sale. They consist of a direct debit mandate, the PPI application form and the Policy 
Schedule. 
The PPI application form is separate to the mortgage application and only deals with PPI. As 
the form is a separate document, I can reasonably assume they had a choice whether to 
complete it or not. So as they had that choice, I think the policy was shown as an optional 
product. The application form showed the details of the PPI cover required and the mortgage 
DRN-1135480details. I noted the PPI benefit had been split between Mr and Mrs W in unequal shares, so I 
think there was probably some conversation about PPI to make that particular choice. The 
form wasnt signed but there is a signed direct debit mandate which I think most likely shows 
Mr and Mrs W knew they were applying for and consenting to pay for financial products. In 
all those circumstances, I think the PPI was presented to them as an optional product and it 
was added to their account with their consent. 
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs W all agree the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had 
to be suitable for them. I noted they were both eligible for PPI, it seems the policy was 
affordable for them at the time of the sale and they didnt seem to be affected by the things 
the policy didnt cover (the exclusions). So Id say the policy was probably suitable for them.
Mr W told us he was self-employed. I have looked at the sample policy which Lloyds said 
was closest to the one which would have been used at around the time of the sale. I can see 
that the policy would still have covered Mr W even though he was self-employed and that 
there was nothing onerous in the terms of the policy for self-employed people. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable for him.
Mr and Mrs W told us they had no savings and Mrs W would have received good employee 
benefits. Having decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr and Mrs W most 
likely thought the policy provided a valuable benefit to them in addition to Mrs Ws employee 
benefits and because they had no savings. The PPI cover would have lasted longer than 
Mrs Ws sick pay. I also think they were unlikely to be affected by the main exclusions of the 
policy as they were both in good health and in employment. So I dont think their finances at 
the time of the sale made the policy any less suitable for them.
I also looked at whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W enough clear information about the 
policy. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear where the documents set out the cost 
of the PPI. But having said that, I dont know how the cost and benefits were actually 
explained to Mr and Mrs W in the meeting. So as Ive decided they did have a discussion, 
they chose to have PPI and the policy was suitable for them, I dont think that having more 
detailed information about the cost and benefit would have put them off from taking out the 
policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to their attention. But as the main ones didnt 
affect them, I dont think they would have decided not to buy PPI even if theyd been given a 
full list of the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think they were probably aware the PPI was optional. I 
think it was suitable for their circumstances and they probably had enough information. So 
Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Amrit MangraOmbudsman