DRN-1605810
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs S took out the PPI at the same time as arranging a mortgage in 1999. Mrs S says that 
this was during a meeting although HSBCs records cant confirm the method of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the mortgage or PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place. This does however make the complaint 
more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do 
have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mrs S says the PPI was just added to the mortgage as part of a package. But the sale was a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ss memory of events has faded. From 
what we know of HSBCs sales process for PPI at the time, the policy would normally have 
been presented as optional. I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. On balance, I consider that Mrs S would have 
been given a choice about taking out the policy. It seems to me that she probably decided to 
buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC advised Mrs S to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to her, it needed to 
ensure that the PPI met her needs. And from what I know of Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs Ss employer would have given her at least six months full sick pay if shed been unable 
to work due to illness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mrs S would have received full pay for. And she didnt have any other means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. Mrs S has said that her parents would have helped. But 
presumably asking someone else to pay your mortgage for you would be a last resort. And 
other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change.
Although Mrs S didnt mention it on her original PPI questionnaire, she has recently said that 
she was also self-employed at the time. However, she has been unable to provide any 
evidence of that.
Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider that Mrs S had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. So I dont think that more information would have caused her to change her 
mind about buying the policy. So she is no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing that HSBC needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman