DRN-3971084
The complaint
Mr S complains about Gee & Watson Wealth Management Limiteds (G&W) 
mismanagement and maladministration of his pension which has led to financial losses.
What happened
Mr S had a Self-Invested personal pension (SIPP) and in 2014 he was recommended by a 
different financial firm to invest through the 7IM platform. His account was linked to four 7IM 
model portfolios which were regularly rebalanced. Regular contributions and rental income 
from a property in the SIPP were to be distributed between the portfolios.
In 2016 G&W started acquiring Mr Ss previous adviser firm and on 5 November 2018 Mr Ss 
7IM account was novated to G&W. At this point Mr Ss account was delinked from the 7IM 
model portfolios as G&W did not hold permissions to access them. As a result Mr Ss 
investments were not rebalanced anymore and contributions remained in cash.
Neither G&W nor Mr S were informed by 7IM about this delink and it went unnoticed until 
October 2020. Mr Ss account was relinked to the model portfolios in November/December 
2020.
Mr S raised complaints against 7IM and G&W. An investigator looked at both complaints and 
thought both firms were responsible for some of the losses. He thought 7IM shouldnt have 
delinked the account without informing G&W, however G&W could have mitigated losses by 
spotting the issue earlier.
G&W are of the view that as 7IM caused the issue, they should be held responsible for all 
losses. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Submissions from all parties have been very detailed and I have considered everything in 
full. However, I wont be addressing every point here, but will focus on what I consider the 
key facts and issues.
I reviewed this complaint as well as the complaint against 7IM and reached slightly different 
conclusions to the investigator, mainly about when I think G&W ought to have reasonably 
identified an issue with Mr Ss account and could have mitigated losses.
Provisional findings
I previously set out my provisional findings to both parties which Ill repeat again below.
Even though G&W became Mr Ss new advisers by novation, they were still new advisers 
who had to sign new terms of business with 7IM and other set up documents. 7IMs terms of 
business set out that model portfolios might be delinked if an adviser ceased to hold 
authority to act for a 7IM client. So when the novation happened and G&W didnt request 
permission to access the model portfolios, the account was delinked. Whilst 7IM was 
technically acting in line with their terms of business, I agree that in order to act fair and 
reasonably they ought to have told the adviser and/or Mr S that they were delinking his 
account from the model portfolios and provided G&W with information on how to request the 
relevant permissions. If they had, I have no reason to believe his account would have either 
stayed linked or would have been relinked immediately.
I acknowledge the argument that that 7IM caused the issue and without their failing no 
losses would have occurred. However, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
consider whether loss could have been mitigated by G&W.
The question is if and when G&W ought to have reasonably realised that there was an issue 
with Mr Ss account.
G&W raised queries with 7IM in October 2020 about the high cash balances in Mr Ss 
account which led to them being informed that the account had been delinked from model 
portfolios. Their submissions what led them to raise these queries have differed. They said 
they noticed issues with another clients account being delinked and so checked Mr Ss 
account. In their submissions to us on 13 January 2023 they said at some unknown point 
after their review meeting with Mr S on 7 July 2020 they became aware of unusual cash 
balances on Mr Ss account which caused them to contact 7IM. Ive seen the email G&W 
sent in October 2020 and they questioned why the cash balances were so high. On balance 
therefore I think more likely than not it was the high cash balances which made them look 
into this further.
Ive taken into account that Mr Ss service agreement with G&W was based (and paid for) on 
a standard level which included a review of his portfolio once a year (scheduled around 
June). I also acknowledge that Mr S didnt respond to invitations for such a review in June 
2019. 
Two indicators that ought to have reasonably triggered G&W to raise questions with 7IM in 
my view were a noticeable increased cash balance and/or the lack of transactions on the 
account. Although the cash balance had increased by June 2019, I dont think it was 
significant enough to reasonably raise concerns. G&W say a quarterly transaction statement 
wasnt available to them, whereas 7IM say this was available for the adviser to view online. 
Ive seen screenshots that 7IM provided from their online platform which shows that 
transactions could be viewed. 
And given that G&W did have online access and could see valuations of the account, I cant 
see any reason why information about transactions on the account wouldnt have been 
available to them. Also, the terms of business between 7IM and G&W state:
4.4.1 Transactions
You are responsible for ensuring that all trade details are correct at the time of dealing and 
that 7IM Platform Clients portfolios are monitored on an ongoing basis. You will be able to 
see details of every transaction that we carry out for your 7IM Platform Clients on the 
7IM Platform.The question is when G&W ought to have reasonably checked this. 7IMs terms of business 
say G&W needed to monitor the portfolios on an ongoing basis. 7IMs terms with the adviser 
also state in the annex for model portfolios under 3.1:
You acknowledge and agree that you are responsible for:
1. advising 7IM Platform Clients in relation to the suitability and appropriateness of any 
model portfolio in compliance with FCA rules and monitoring portfolios linked to a model 
portfolio and continuing to assess the suitability and appropriateness of all transactions 
entered into, including those resulting from changes to the model portfolio and rebalancing of 
portfolio linked to the model portfolio on an ongoing basis.
Even if my assumption is wrong and G&W didnt have this access, I think they ought to have 
queried it as without access they wouldnt be able to fulfil these responsibilities they agreed 
to by signing 7IMs terms.
I carefully considered what ongoing monitoring I considered reasonable in this case. Given 
Mr Ss service agreement and their terms with 7IM, I think a reasonable expectation was for 
G&W to review the model portfolios and Mr Ss account at least once a year to check that it 
still was in line what they considered appropriate. I dont think it matters that Mr S didnt take 
up the annual review to discuss his circumstances and risk profile. In my view, it wasnt 
reasonable for G&W to leave the account largely unmonitored unless Mr S agreed to the 
annual review. He was still paying 0.5% of his funds per year for a service and G&W, as his 
adviser, needed to act in his best interest. I dont see how this would be possible without 
reviewing and understanding the model portfolios, transactions and valuations at least once 
a year to ensure everything was in order.
G&W prepared valuations for Mr S dated 12 June 2019 in preparation for his annual review. 
I think it would have been reasonable to review the composition of the model portfolios and 
transactions at the same time. And if they had done so the lack of transactions since they 
took over the account ought to have been obvious and should have prompted them to raise 
queries with 7IM which would have led to the discovery that the account was delinked from 
the model portfolio.
So I think G&W could have reasonably discovered the delink from the model portfolios on 12 
June 2019. When G&W did eventually make enquiries with 7IM in early October 2020, it took 
around 6 weeks to relink the account. I appreciate this could have taken shorter or longer if 
actioned in June 2019, however using the same timeframe is reasonable in my view. So on 
this basis its fair to assume G&W could have mitigated further losses after 24 July 2019.
I think the above timeline is reasonable. However, for completion I also note that in mid-
December 2019, G&W provided Mr S with valuations of his portfolio. Whilst this wasnt in 
context of an annual review, the valuations at this point would have shown a significant cash 
position which ought to have prompted queries with 7IM just like they did at some point 
between July and October 2020 when G&W actually raised the queries. I dont accept that 
obvious issues could be ignored if they arose outside a review window. So notwithstanding 
my findings that I think G&W ought to have spotted that something wasnt quite right in June 
2019, at the very latest they should have identified an issue in December 2019, around ten 
months before they did raise concerns. So Im satisfied they failed to mitigate Mr Ss losses 
for an extended period and therefore it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
to hold 7IM responsible for all losses.
Mr S also queried whether his adventurous portfolio was in fact rebalanced after the 
portfolios were relinked. He provided a transaction statement on which I invited both G&W 
and 7IMs comments.Responses to provisional decision
G&W remained of the view that 7IM should be fully held responsible for all losses relating to 
the delink. They say not recognising the error earlier is a lack of service and should not be 
confused with 7IMs original error. They offered to pay £500 for this lack of service.
No comments were provided by G&W about whether the adventurous portfolio had been 
rebalanced. Helpfully, 7IM provided statements which show that rebalancing on the 
adventurous portfolio did take place albeit around a month later than the other portfolios in 
December 2020.
Mr S also pointed out that one of his complaint points had not been addressed, namely that 
the redistribution of rental income payments between his 7IM portfolios didn't happen in 
certain months which is supported by statements. He had raised these points to G&W by 
email on 30 June 2022 but didnt receive a response. I asked G&W to include their 
comments on this issue with their response to my provisional findings. 
G&W didnt provide any comments, so I explained that if no further information or plausible 
reasons were provided why the redistributions didnt take place in certain months, I would 
reasonably assume this was a mistake by G&W which needed to be put right. No response 
was provided, so Im proceeding on this assumption. 
G&W failed to monitor Mr Ss account appropriately and ought to have reasonably identified 
a lot earlier that Mr Ss account had been delinked. Its accepted that the delink isnt G&Ws 
fault, however without their failings Mr Ss account could have been relinked a lot earlier and 
so losses after 24 July 2019 could have been prevented. I remain satisfied that its fair and 
reasonable to hold G&W responsible for those losses. I also still think the redress 
methodology I have previously shared with both parties and which I set out again below 
remains fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
1) Calculate losses incurred to Mr Ss account due to it being delinked to the model portfolios 
for the period between 25 July 2019 and when it was relinked on 19 November 2020. The 
rebalancing happened for three portfolios between 18 and 20 November 2020, so using one 
date in the middle for ease is reasonable in my view. For the adventurous portfolio this 
should be calculated between 25 July 2019 and 16 December 2020 when the majority of the 
rebalancing occurred.
2) Calculate losses incurred by not redistributing some of his £1,000 per month rental 
income payments between 2018 and 2021 (October and December 2018, March and 
November 2019, April to December 2020 and January to June 2021). Payments into 
Portfolio D (Income) should have been redistributed as follows: £500 to Portfolio J 
(Balanced) and £125 to Portfolio N (Adventurous). G&W should compare: 
a) the investment returns each £1,000 rental payment would have attracted from the
respective dates they were paid until Mr S closed the account in November 2021 if
invested in Portfolio D and
b) the investment returns each £1,000 rental payment would have attracted from the 
respective dates they were paid until Mr S closed the account in November 2021 if 
redistributed as set out above into Portfolio J and Portfolio N. 
Rebalanced portfolio returns should be used for the comparisons. Some of Mr S's rental 
payments weren't rebalanced but this is being compensated through 7IM's calculations and the redress proposed here under 1). So comparing the rebalanced portfolio returns ensures 
Mr S isn't overcompensated.
3) Mr S has also lost out on returns of the loss amounts under 1) and 2) until this is being 
settled. So G&W should add the investment returns Mr S would have achieved on the sums 
calculated under 1) and 2) as follows:
For any loss amount calculated under 1) : from the dates the account was relinked in 
November 2020/December 2020 until Mr S closed the account, which I understand to be in 
November 2021, the returns of his 7IM portfolios should be used.
For any losses calculated under 1) and 2): from account closure in November 2021 until 
G&W pay compensation to Mr S the returns on his new platform with AJ Bell should be 
used. If for any reason this isnt obtainable, the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total 
return index (prior to 1 March 2017, this was called the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index) should be used instead.
G&W should ask 7IM for all the relevant information they need to calculate these losses. I 
have asked 7IM to assist where they can.
4) The compensation calculated above should be paid into Mr Ss pension. Any potential 
gains calculated in either 1) or 2) can be offset from the compensation amount. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If G&W are unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ss pension plan, 
it should pay that amount directly to him. 
But had it been possible to pay into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount. This isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that he is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, Mr S would likely 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, so the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
7) Pay Mr S £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Gee & Watson Wealth Management Limited to 
calculate and pay Mr S compensation as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 
2023. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman