DRN-3152701
The complaint
Mr C complains about damage and excess mileage charges Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) applied at the end of his Hire Agreement. He would like them waived.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
The contract and key information responsibility documents that Mr C signed made it 
clear that he would be responsible for any damage to the vehicle outside of British 
Vehicle Leasing & Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines.  I have considered the 
damage charges and agree with our investigators view that these are chargeable 
under these guidelines.
I appreciate Mr Cs point that he has no evidence of the cost VWFS incurred in 
carrying out repairs. We wouldnt normally expect a business to share these costs. It 
maybe that VWFS didnt carry out repairs. It a business decision for it to take to 
repair any damage or to sell a vehicle on without repairs with any resultant loss. But if 
VWFS chose not the repair the car it doesnt mean it was unfair for it to charge for 
damage. From what I have seen it applied its charges correctly.
The contract and key information documents also make it clear that at the end of a 
hire agreement excess miles will be charged for. If I  have understood correctly 
VWFS hasnt charged for excess miles, which it could have done.
VWFS has however charged, in accordance with the contract Mr C signed, a daily 
rate for the time Mr C retained his car beyond the end of his agreement. I have no 
evidence to support Mr Cs claim that VWFS agreed it wouldnt make this charge. 
The information I have on the delay in collecting Mr Ns car is contradictory. 
However, as Mr C confirmed he did use the car whilst he still had it, I think VWFS 
was reasonably entitled to make a charge for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman