DRN-4391135
Complaint
Mrs H has complained about a loan Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) which she 
says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan should never have been granted and it was 
irresponsibly lent.
Background
Progressive provided Mrs H with a loan for £6,000.00 in August 2018. This loan had an APR 
of 60.49% and the total amount to be repaid of £15,975.00, which included interest fees and 
charges of £9,975.00 (made up of interest of £8,985.00, an acceptance fee of £600 and an 
administration fee of £390), was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around 
£266.25.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs H and Progressive had told us. He thought that 
Progressive hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Mrs H and so didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld. Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Hs complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Progressive needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Progressive needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Mrs H could afford to make her repayments before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Progressive says Mrs Hs loan application was manually assessed by an underwriter after 
she provided details of her monthly income and information on her expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked Mrs Hs declarations against information on a credit search it carried out, 
bank statements that it obtained from Mrs H and questions that it asked her during a 
telephone interview. 
In Progressives view all of the information it gathered showed that Mrs H could afford to 
make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs H has said she was 
already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs H and Progressive have said. 
Its clear that Progressive did obtain a significant amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Mrs Hs application. And this information does appear to suggest that, at the 
time at least, the monthly loan repayments were affordable for Mrs H. I accept that Mrs Hs 
actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the information Progressive obtained. 
I know that Mrs H did have historic difficulties with credit in the form of County Court 
Judgments (CCJ) and outstanding debts. The first thing to say is that the CCJs occurred 
five and three years prior to this loan application. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
less weight to have been placed on these applications. Furthermore, Mrs H was asked about 
her historic difficulties with credit. And the explanation she provided for the difficulties with 
the accounts concerned wasnt implausible or unreasonable. 
I think its also worth me explaining that Progressive could only make a reasonable decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. And Im satisfied that information 
gathered did appear to suggest that at the time at least, the monthly payments to this loan 
were affordable. 
Given the circumstances here, and the steps taken to address the inconsistencies, I dont 
think that Progressive did anything wrong when providing this loan to Mrs H - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Progressive acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Mrs H. It didnt simply accept what Mrs H said about her 
circumstances when deciding whether to lend - instead it manually underwrote the loan after 
obtaining a significant amount of information backing up the monthly payments being 
affordable for her. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably and do not uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs H as its clear she feels strongly 
about this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Progressive of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding 
balance on Mrs Hs loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman