DRN-1345760
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a loan in 
2005. The policy covered Mr A only. Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs A have said they were told they had to have the PPI in order to get 
the mortgage.
Santanders records show Mr and Mrs As mortgage started in 2002 and had been running 
for several years before the sale of the PPI. So I dont think Mr and Mrs A can reasonably 
have thought they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the application form for the further loan Mr and Mrs A 
were taking out in 2005. This included a section on insurance with yes and no boxes to 
be ticked to show whether they wanted to take out PPI. And the yes box has been ticked.
And Santander has sent us a copy of the key facts document for the further loan, which lists 
the PPI under the heading of optional insurance.
Based on this, I think Santander did make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that they had a choice 
about the PPI. And I think Mr and Mrs A chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mr A told us he 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs A clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for them, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr and Mrs A if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs A off 
taking it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because:
    Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
     premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Santander didnt
     tell Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair.
    To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
     that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman