DRN-3159348
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card account. Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to AMEX in this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in October 2021 and I invited any of the 
parties involved to respond with further evidence or information if they wanted to. 
Neither Mr H nor his representatives responded. AMEX agreed with what I had said in my 
provisional decision. So, Im now issuing a final decision. This should be read in conjunction 
with the provisional decision I issued last month.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Was Mr H given a choice?
I see Mr H first took out his credit card in late July 2008. It didnt come with any PPI at that 
point and we know now that PPI was added later, in January 2009. It was sold after Mr H 
was called by an AMEX agent.
I therefore think its reasonable for me to point out that Mr H would have been able to see by 
January 2009 that PPI wasnt something he needed to have  thats because hed been 
operating his card account without PPI for several months.
The PPI was added after that telephone marketing call. Ive listened to the actual call 
recording and whilst I can certainly see ways in which the operative could have explained 
things a bit better, its obvious to me that Mr H engaged in the sale process. In my view, the 
recording demonstrates that Mr H understood what was being sold to him during the call. 
The price of the policy was also discussed, and he knew the policy was optional. During the 
call, Mr H gave his consent  quite clearly in my view  to have the PPI added to his card 
account.
Was Mr H told enough?
A central theme of the complaint brought on Mr Hs behalf is that he didnt need the PPI, 
essentially because he had other means available to him. Nevertheless, there is no evidence 
this was an advised sale. The telephone call was pitched to Mr H very much as a product 
he might be interested in and he was invited to consider whether hed like to buy it. AMEXs 
responsibility was limited in such (non-advised) sales to giving information that was clear 
enough for Mr H himself to decide whether he wanted the cover. And during the call, Mr H 
agreed he wanted to take the policy out, after first discussing and clarifying a number of 
features of the PPI.
So, Im afraid many of the points put forward by Mr Hs representatives about suitability of 
the PPI are weak, in the sense that it was for him rather than AMEX, to assess the PPIs 
overall suitability for his particular circumstances. The points raised by his representative in 
this respect are that his partner had sickness protection with their job and that Mr H himself 
had various forms of other insurance(s) that rendered the PPI of no use to him. However, the 
insurance policies mentioned seem to me to predominantly relate to quite different 
eventualities and they do not necessarily conflict with him also having the PPI which 
covered for a menu of different outcomes. One policy mentioned on behalf of Mr H does 
seem to cover unemployment, but Mr Hs representative provided no evidence of this policy, 
or indeed evidence relating to any of the other policies. 
As I say, whilst its possible the information AMEX gave Mr H about the PPI had some 
shortcomings, he chose to take it out and, as well as having the main features explained 
during the call, he was also sent a letter summarising the benefits in writing. I was given a 
copy of this letter and think he had quite a lot of information to complement what he had 
already been told over the telephone. 
The PPI policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr H. For example, he wasnt affected by the 
significant exclusions and the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what he thought he was buying 
from the information he was given during the call, even if AMEX could have done a better job 
at explaining certain things. There were also no additional restrictions on the cover for 
mental health or back problems, as alleged by his representative, and it looks like it was 
affordable for him. The cost of 78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance was discussed 
in the call I listened to. 
I further note Mr H was told (and he discussed this with the AMEX agent) that he could 
cancel the policy within 30 days. But he kept it for some time, which further suggests to me 
that his original decision to buy the cover in the first place was one he remained comfortable 
with. Ive seen no evidence he considered the purchase as being a mistake and the charges 
would have started to appear on his card statements. Mr H knew he would have been able 
to have 5% of his outstanding balance repaid for six months in the event of a successful 
claim  he was also told that on the seventh month the whole balance (subject to a 
maximum of £20,000) could have been expunged. This benefit, and two other benefit 
features, were discussed at reasonable length during the call. 
All these things show that Mr H had himself weighed up the pros and cons of buying the 
PPI and I think he was able to make an informed decision.
Mr Hs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AMEX should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means AMEX does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
was there an unfair relationship?
AMEX didnt tell Mr H about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
AMEX and Mr H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
AMEX didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think AMEX acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr H should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: AMEX failed to tell Mr H about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipcommission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by AMEX not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for AMEXs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it is fair for AMEX to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr H paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this would fairly remove the source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr H with 
the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if AMEX had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that AMEXs should now make a payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms. This would be what is fair 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
American Express Services Europe Limited should pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.  
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman