DRN-3654611
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) made mistakes with the 
administration of their mortgage, and theyve lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a joint mortgage with RBS. In October 2019, RBS said a monthly 
payment had been missed in 2018. Mr and Mrs W reviewed their payments and statements 
and sent RBS confirmation that the payment hadnt been missed and asked that it correct 
what they believed to be an error. In November 2019, Mr and Mrs W complained to RBS.
RBS accepted it had made a mistake with the information it provided on the amount Mr and 
Mrs W needed to pay to change their monthly payment date. As a result it failed to explain 
how arrears would build on the account even if a payment was made a day late. RBS 
apologised for recording a missed payment incorrectly. It sent a gift hamper to apologise for 
the error and said it would remove any adverse credit information recorded incorrectly from 
October 2018 to the date of the final response in January 2020.
Mr and Mrs W believed RBS had removed the adverse information from their credit files and 
werent aware of any issue until April 2022. Theyd recently sold their home and were looking 
to move to a new property with a new mortgage and found a deal they wanted with their 
broker. But their application was declined and Mr and Mrs W realised that Mr Ws credit file 
still had a missed payment recorded for the mortgage in 2019. The broker Mr and Mrs W 
were using for their mortgage application said their application had been declined because 
of negative information on Mr Ws credit file.
Mr and Mrs W complained and RBS investigated the complaint. After initially saying the 
negative information had been removed, it revisited the complaint and realised it had failed 
to do what it said it would in 2019. It said it would update Mr Ws credit file and confirmed 
this had now been done and the negative information removed. To apologies for the error 
and the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid £500 to Mr and Mrs W. RBS also said it 
would be happy to review the difference in the fixed interest rate that they would have got, if 
the lender could confirm in writing that the mortgage application was declined because of the 
negative information on Mr Ws credit file.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was sufficient and brought their complaint to this service. They 
explained that they wanted compensation that took account of the impact the error had on 
them and their living arrangements and reflected the impact on the other people let down by 
the mistake. This included the seller of the house they hoped to buy and the work carried out 
by their solicitor.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed that RBS had made mistakes when it 
failed to remove the adverse information from both credit files when it said it would. She 
detailed what happened with this complaint but also highlighted another complaint Mr and 
Mrs W made in January and February 2021. 
The complaint in early 2021 related to RBS not providing Mr and Mrs W with correct 
information about their monthly repayment amount after a payment holiday had ended, this 
resulted in arrears on their account. RBS accepted it had made a mistake here and agreed 
to refund the arrears amount and remove any adverse information on Mr and Mrs Ws credit 
file as a result of the error. RBS said the information should be removed within 5 working 
days and the credit file updated within 56 days.
Overall, our investigator felt the amount paid by RBS to put things right was fair and she 
didnt think it needed to do anything else. She said this because the amount paid was inline 
with what she expected RBS to have paid to recognise the impact of its mistake. And this, 
together with the offer to review the interest rate Mr and Mrs W could achieve if the lender 
confirmed their application was declined because of the negative information incorrectly 
recorded, was a fair outcome for their complaint.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigator and explained that as well as the distress and 
inconvenience caused, they were incurring costs as a result of the error. They had moved to 
rented accommodation when the house purchase fell through but had needed to put most of 
their contents into storage and were paying this cost as well as the weekly/monthly rental for 
their accommodation. They felt the compensation should reflect these costs.
Our investigator said her opinion remained and because Mr and Mrs W disagreed, the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W 
but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
It isnt disputed that RBS has made mistakes and it has accepted this and made an offer to 
put things right. It is whether this offer is fair that is still in dispute. 
Mr and Mrs W had a number of complaints with RBS over the last few years and this will 
have clearly added to their distress and inconvenience. But Im looking at whether the steps 
it has taken now are fair. So while the previous events are considered for background and 
do have relevance, Im not looking at the resolutions previously offered. 
Mr and Mrs W have explained a number of things which add to why they feel they should be 
compensated more by RBS. This includes making sure the award reflects the impact on 
other people let down when their purchase fell through. I understand why Mr and Mrs W are 
concerned about this and worried about the impact on others, but I wouldnt expect RBS to 
make an award to Mr and Mrs W to compensate the distress and inconvenience of others. 
The award should reflect the impact on them and Id expect this to be in line with any award 
this service might make. 
RBS explained in its final response on 25 May 2022 that it had made the changes to Mr Ws 
credit file. Mr and Mrs W have provided copies of their credit file and I cannot see any 
negative information now showing in relation to the RBS mortgage and I think it is likely this 
was updated when RBS said it was.From this point, Mr and Mrs W could have made a new application for a mortgage if they 
wished to do so as the information on Mr Ws credit file was correct. I appreciate it might 
have been too late for the property which had their formal offer accepted on 11 April, but I 
dont think it meant Mr and Mrs W couldnt look for a new property to purchase with a 
mortgage. Theyve mentioned house prices increasing quickly and this being an issue, but 
within little over a month between the offer being accepted and the issue with their credit file 
being identified, RBS had put this right. 
Mr and Mrs W havent said they incurred any direct expenses as a result of the mortgage 
being declined and the purchase falling through  so there was no solicitor or estate agent 
fees lost. But I know they feel RBS should be taking account of the expenses they say 
theyve incurred as a result of their living arrangements now, but I dont think it would be fair 
to ask for RBS to cover these. As Ive said, I think they could have made a new application 
after the 25 May when RBS explained it had corrected the information on Mr Ws credit file. If 
Mr and Mrs W havent made an offer on any other properties, I cant say this is because their 
credit files hadnt been amended or that RBSs error continued to stop them being able to 
apply for a mortgage and because of this, asking it to cover their ongoing expenses wouldnt 
be fair.    
RBS also said that it would consider the difference in any fixed interest rate if Mr and Mrs W 
could provide a letter from the lender which confirmed the information on Mr Ws credit file 
was the only reason for the application being declined. This needed to be provided with an 
application made within three months of the date of RBSs letter. I think it acted fairly here by 
offering to put Mr and Mrs W back in the position they would have been in had they been 
able to provide the information asked for. But Mr and Mrs W have been only able to provide 
an email from their broker, not confirmation from the lender that this was the reason for the 
decline. However, as they havent made any other application for a mortgage, nothing has 
been provided to RBS for it to consider here.
Between RBS saying it would amend Mr and Mrs Ws credit file in 2019 through until April 
2022, they had no knowledge this hadnt been done. It appears they hadnt checked their 
credit file had been updated despite other complaints which impacted this too. It follows 
there was no impact on Mr and Mrs W resulting from the error during this time. When RBS 
was notified of the issue and it affecting the application made by Mr and Mrs W in 2022, it 
rectified this quickly, even after it initially made a mistake with this.  And I think the payment 
of £500, together with the offer it made to review the difference in a fixed rate on a new 
application was fair and in line with what Id expect.
The impact Mr and Mrs W have spoken about relates to their living arrangements since the 
error occurred, but Ive not seen anything to show RBS hadnt rectified the error on the credit 
file when it said it did. Nor do I think this would have stopped Mr and Mrs W looking at other 
options soon after the initial application was declined.  
So I dont think it would be reasonable to ask RBS to take any further action on this 
complaint as it has provided an outcome that I consider to be fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against 
RBS.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman