DRN-3748690
The complaint
Mr T complains about the settlement payment esure Insurance Limited (esure) offered him 
following the total loss of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T was involved in a car accident. He made a claim to esure and it arranged for the 
damage to be assessed. It was determined that the car was beyond economical repair and 
so it was categorised as a write-off. esure initially offered Mr T £23,171 less the £1,100 
policy excess. This offer was later increased to £23,853. 
Mr T says to replace his car he had to pay £41,980 for the same model and the new car had 
done 3,000 more miles than his previous car. 
esure says it used the industry trade guides to establish the market value of Mr Ts car. It 
didnt agree to increase its settlement offer, so Mr T referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought esures approach to establishing the 
market value of Mr Ts car was fair. He says its settlement offer fell within the range of 
values obtained. However, esure had reduced the valuation by £300 with respect to the 
condition of the car. Our investigator asked for evidence to support the reason for the 
deduction. 
esure couldnt provide supporting evidence so he thought it was fair that this amount be paid 
to Mr T as part of the settlement figure. This was in addition to 8% simple interest for the 
unpaid amount and £100 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I wont be adding to the redress our 
investigator recommended, which I understand will come as a disappointment to Mr T. But I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair.
I can understand that Mr T wants the best possible settlement for the loss of his car. Mr T
said he couldnt find a like for like replacement for esures offer. But his policy doesnt
provide for a like for like replacement. It provides the market value in the case of a total
loss. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
The approach our service takes in these circumstances is not to provide a valuation but to 
consider whether the approach the insurer used was fair. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we look at valuations from the 
main motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these 
guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. 
We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that esure obtained valuations for Mr Ts car that ranged from £23,550 up to 
£24,520. It discounted one valuation, which was significantly higher than the others at close 
to £29,000. I think this was reasonable and is also the approach our service takes in these 
circumstances. I can see that esure used the correct make, model, age, and mileage for the 
car. It then agreed a settlement payment for £24,153, albeit it decided to reduce this by £300 
due to the cars condition. 
Our investigator also obtained valuations using the motor trade guides. Ive checked to see 
how this was done. I can see that he used the correct information for Mr Ts car and the 
valuations were taken from the date of the accident. These valuations gave a range between 
£23,550 and £24,750. The higher end is slightly more than esures range. One of the 
valuations he obtained was significantly higher than this. However, he explained this guide 
wasnt being used at the time esure obtained its valuations. He didnt think it was fair to 
include this.
I think its reasonable to discount the higher valuation, which is closer to £27,000. The other 
values are grouped closely together, which I think gives a more reliable assessment of the 
cars value. As above, we dont provide valuations but look to see that the approach esure 
applied is reasonable. The settlement payment it offered is within the range of values Ive 
seen from the trade guides. So, I dont think esure behaved unfairly in how it calculated the 
market value or in the settlement payment it offered. 
Ive thought about Mr Ts comments that he had to pay in excess of £40,000 to replace his 
car. But from the information hes provided I dont think this represents a like for like 
replacement with the car that was damaged.  
Ive thought about the deduction esure made for the condition of Mr Ts car. Id expect this to 
be supported with an engineers report or other information to show why it was reasonable to 
deduct this amount. We asked esure to provide this information  but it wasnt able to. I dont 
think this deduction has been justified so it should be taken off the settlement figure. 
This has delayed Mr T receiving the full settlement payment for his car. I agree with our 
investigators view that this caused him inconvenience and distress. Its fair that it pays him 
£100 compensation to acknowledge this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr T a total settlement payment of £24,153 minus the policy excess, plus 8% 
simple interest on the outstanding amount from the date the settlement was agreed 
until payment is made *If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Mr T £100 compensation for the inconvenience and distress it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman