DRN-1587222
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited harassed him about repaying a credit card balance that 
he believes hed already paid off.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr W applied online for a credit card with MBNA, as he wanted to transfer a 
balance of £4,800 he had on a credit card with another provider. The MBNA card had a 
promotional 0% interest rate for balance transfers until December 2020. His application was 
accepted, and he was given a credit limit of £5,200. 
He received the card in the post, along with a personal identification number (PIN) for it but 
decided that he no longer wanted to use the credit card. He put it aside as he was going on 
holiday.
But, while he was away, the balance on his existing credit card was transferred onto the 
MBNA card, along with a fee of £52.80. Mr W didnt realise this as he didnt believe hed 
authorised this, and had changed his mind about taking up the MBNA card. This meant that 
Mr W missed making the first payment towards the MBNA card which was set out in the 
statement he was sent in June 2018. Because of this, the 0% promotional interest rate for 
the balance transfer was removed and it went up to an annual rate of 21.9%. Mr W was also 
charged a £12 fee for the late payment.
Mr W made a payment of £108.54 in July 2018, which was the minimum payment for that 
months statement. 
In September 2018, Mr W made a further payment of £300 towards the balance. But he 
contacted MBNA to complain as he said he hadnt given his authorisation for the credit card 
to be taken out, and he hadnt received any paper statements. 
MBNA responded that, in order to perform a balance transfer, a customer must have an 
open account and Mr W completed the balance transfer and account application at the same 
time. Statements had been sent to Mr Ws home address. It said that, if Mr W wanted to 
close his account, he would need to pay the full balance and it would arrange for the balance 
transfer fee to be refunded once this had been received. 
Mr W then made a payment of £4,280.96 to his account. But this wasnt enough to pay off 
the full outstanding balance, so the balance transfer fee wasnt refunded. MBNA didnt 
receive any further payments from Mr W and so interest carried on being applied each 
month. 
In February 2019, Mr W complained that he had been hassled by MBNA. He said that he 
never wished to take up the offer of the credit card; and it had charged him interest as hed 
unknowingly missed a payment. He felt that hed paid off the debt in full, and said he had no 
intention of paying anything further. He asked for a statement of the payments hed made. But MBNA didnt receive this letter. In a phone call the same month, Mr W complained to 
MBNA that he was continuing to receive calls about the credit card debt, and it responded to 
say that it would continue to attempt to call him if he didnt respond to its written 
communications. It set out the amount of arrears and the payment needed.
But, as MBNA didnt receive any further payments from Mr W, it sent him a default notice in 
April 2019. The default was registered in June 2019, and then MBNA made the decision to 
sell the outstanding debt onto a third party in July 2019. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said the payments Mr W had made hadnt paid off the balance he owed, and all the 
statements and letters for his account had been sent to his home address. She said there 
were notes of a call Mr W had with MBNA in September 2018, which suggested that he was 
aware that he owed money but wasnt happy that interest had been applied. She said that 
MBNA passed the debt onto a third party in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement after Mr W didnt respond to its correspondence about the remaining balance and 
his account was defaulted. The investigator didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. He didnt feel that his initial concerns had been 
addressed - that he wasnt aware of the need to make a payment or of MBNAs terms and 
conditions as he was away and so didnt have access to his post at the time the first 
statement was sent. He said he had no reason to expect correspondence from MBNA. He 
questioned his outstanding balance after the payments he made and asked for a payment 
summary. Mr W asked why hed paid such an odd sum in September 2018, and said that 
hed believed hed paid back the capital sum in full then. He said hed refused to pay the 
interest, as he took the card out because it was 0%. Mr W said that hed outlined what he 
considered to be unprofessional behaviour by MBNA and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to hear of the poor health Mr W and his wife have both been experiencing. I 
can understand that this situation will have caused them additional worry and stress. And I 
can see that they would both like this matter to be resolved.
Having carefully considered all the provided information, including the background to what 
happened when Mr W initially looked into applying to transfer his credit card balance to 
MBNA; I dont think it has acted unfairly or inappropriately in the particular circumstances 
here.
I say this because Mr W applied online for the MBNA credit card because of the promotional 
interest rate for balance transfers, and gave the specific details of the account and amount 
he wanted to transfer. He then received an email from MBNA confirming his application had 
been accepted and that he would soon be receiving his card. 
Mr W has told us he did receive the MBNA credit card and PIN, but put them aside as hed 
decided he didnt want to use the card after all. But the balance transfer he'd requested was 
still being processed. So £4,800 was transferred onto the MBNA card, and was paid off of 
the other card. This was a debt that Mr W still owed, but it had been moved from one credit 
card provider to the other. Mr W clearly received his card, so he would've been aware a credit card account had been 
set up for him. Although I appreciate that hed changed his mind about the need for it, Ive 
not seen anything to indicate that he told MBNA at that stage that he no longer wanted to go 
ahead with the balance transfer hed applied for. 
While I understand Mr W was on holiday when the first statement was sent to him with the 
expected payment details; MBNA had acted on the request he made when he applied for 
this card in transferring the balance as he wanted. It then became a debt that he owed to 
MBNA. 
The MBNA credit card had a promotional 0% interest rate for balance transfers, if the terms 
and conditions of the credit card agreement were met. These said:
All promotional rates for the transaction type shown will revert to the relevant standard rates 
of interest at the end of the promotional period, or if you breach your terms and 
conditions.
As Mr W didnt meet the required minimum payment following his first account statement, 
this breached the terms and conditions, so the promotional 0% interest rate was withdrawn 
and interest began being charged on his balance. 
Mr W has questioned why he wouldve paid the specific amount he did in September 2018, if 
it wasnt because he believed that amount would repay the debt. I can see that on the day it 
was paid, Mr W spoke with MBNA. The notes from this call suggest that Mr W was looking to 
repay the balance but not any interest hed been charged, as he believed the credit card 
shouldve been at 0% interest  the reason why he applied for it. 
While I cant be certain of the reason Mr W decided to pay that specific amount; the 
statement from that time shows that £4,580.96 was owed as a balance transfer. There was 
also an amount of £12 under the cash purchase section, which was the default fee applied 
when he missed the first payment. These are shown separately as different rates of interest 
apply to them.
Mr W had already paid £300 on 4 September, so its possible that, if he believed this hadnt 
yet been deducted from the remaining amount of his balance transfer (£4,580.96) this may 
have been why he chose to pay £4,280.96. 
I've looked at the payments made towards the balance. A £25 cash back payment was 
applied to the account soon after the balance transfer was completed. And Mr W then made 
three payments to the account:
£108.54
£300.00
£4,280.96
 
So the total amount paid off the credit card was £4,714.50. And this wouldnt have been 
enough to repay the original £4,800 transferred even if no interest or fees had been applied. 
Mr W also feels that MBNA has been unprofessional and didnt respond to his complaint 
letter from February 2019 until our involvement. But I dont think thats the case when I 
havent seen that MBNA received that letter at the time. It did write to Mr W in February 
2019, but this was in response to his phone call to it about receiving calls relating to the 
amount owed. It doesnt seem that MBNA was aware of the other aspects of Mr Ws 
complaint at that stage  that he believed hed paid off the debt in full.Overall, I dont think that MBNA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the actions it has 
taken. Mr W moved his credit card debt onto his MBNA card, and then didnt fully repay his 
balance. So while I appreciate Mr Ws reasons for believing that he had fully repaid the 
balance, this wasnt the case. And I think MBNA took sufficient steps to make him aware of 
this. 
I also appreciate that Mr W has not wanted to deal with the third party which has bought this 
debt. But that company is now the owner of it, and it is a separate company to MBNA. So 
Mr W should contact this third party directly to confirm the balance owed and make any 
arrangements to repay it.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman