DRN-4433161
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) recycled his old savings account 
number. This meant an old standing order payment resumed and Mr Rs money was sent to 
another customer for several years.
What happened
Mr R banked with Barclays and held several accounts with it - this included a savings 
account which he closed in May 2014. 
Mr R had a standing order set up from his current account to pay £10 per month to this 
savings account. The standing order wasnt cancelled when the savings account was closed.
Until 2019 the standing order was returned each month. However, in December 2019 
Barclays recycled the savings account number and issued it to a new customer. At this point 
the standing order payment was successfully processed each month from January 2020 
onwards. 
In August 2023 Mr R noticed the standing order wasnt being returned after his account went 
into a negative balance. He contacted Barclays and ultimately raised a complaint. 
Barclays looked into things and explained to Mr R what had happened. It offered to pay Mr R 
£420, the total amount hed lost from the standing order payments, as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our Service. He said Barclays should 
have cancelled the standing order when he closed the account and that it ought not to have 
recycled the account number. Mr R also wanted compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. He explained he has a mental health illness and that this whole 
matter had caused him a lot of stress and anxiety  worsening his condition. 
Mr R was also unhappy that Barclays suggested on the phone to him that if he took his 
complaint to our Service, that our decision would not be in his favour. He said this put 
pressure on him and Barclays didnt handle his complaint in the right way.
When we notified Barclays we had Mr Rs complaint, it made a proactive settlement offer of 
an additional £50 compensation in an effort to resolve things quickly. Our Investigator looked 
into things and was of the opinion that this offer was fair, so she explained this to Mr R. 
Mr R disagreed with her view. Mr R said hed asked about the standing order in branch in 
2014 when he closed the account and Barclays told him that it would simply bounce back. 
Mr R said it didnt mention that it recycles account numbers. Mr R also stressed that he had 
significant mental health issues which Barclays was aware of. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. After reviewing the complaint, I was of the 
opinion some of Mr Rs complaint points fell outside of our Services jurisdiction. So, I issued 
a jurisdiction decision explaining what the rules that govern our Service meant for Mr Rs 
complaint. Within this decision I identified that were four parts to Mr Rs complaint:
1. Mr R is unhappy Barclays recycled the account number.
2. Mr R is unhappy Barclays didnt proactively cancel the standing order in 2014 when 
the savings account was closed.
3. Mr R is unhappy he wasnt told he needed to cancel the standing order in 2014 
despite discussing this with the branch staff member.
4. Mr R is unhappy with the way Barclays handled his complaint  in particular that he 
was told on the phone that if he took his complaint to our Service, that our decision 
would not be in his favour.
I determined that complaint points two and three had been brought to our Service too late 
and complaint point four was not an activity that I could consider. 
However, I was satisfied that the first complaint point fell within our Services jurisdiction. 
And I am now in a position to issue a final decision on the merits of this part of Mr Rs 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As outlined in my jurisdiction decision, I was really sorry to read about Mr Rs health and the 
negative impact dealing with all of this has had on him. Id like to take this opportunity to wish 
him well moving forward and I hope that receiving a reimbursement of his funds from 
Barclays has helped somewhat.
I can appreciate why Mr R is unhappy with whats happened. But ultimately there are a finite 
combination of numbers for accounts. Given this, providing a reasonable period of time has 
passed after an account is closed, I dont think recycling account numbers is unfair. I note 
Mr R closed his account in May 2014 and the account number was reissued in December 
2019 five and a half years later. I think this is a reasonable length of time to wait. So, Im 
not persuaded Barclays acted unfairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Barclays decision to recycle 
his account number.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman