DRN-3132144
The complaint
Mrs H complains that BISL Limited didnt give her sufficient notice that her motor insurance 
policy would not be renewed. 
What happened
Mrs Hs policy was due for renewal, but she hadnt heard from BISL, the new administrators 
of her policy. She was told two days before her policy expired that it wouldnt be renewed. 
Mrs H was unhappy as she was then pressed to find another insurer. BISL agreed it hadnt 
followed its renewals process correctly and it offered Mrs H £30 compensation for her 
trouble. Mrs H remained unhappy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought BISL should 
have given Mrs H more warning of the non-renewal of her policy. And he thought this had 
caused Mrs H inconvenience as shed been with the same insurer for some years and 
needed to find a suitable replacement. So he thought BISL should pay Mrs H a further £70 
compensation. 
BISL agreed to do this. But Mrs H replied that she thought this wasnt sufficient 
compensation. Mrs H asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL has agreed that it made a mistake in not sending Mrs H her non-renewal 
correspondence within the correct time-frame. When a business makes a mistake, as BISL 
accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able 
to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
BISL did send Mrs H a non-renewal letter which she received two days before her policy 
expired and, from what I can see, she was then able to find an alternative insurer. So Mrs H 
wasnt without cover. And I can see that she was provided with her proof of No Claims 
Discount (NCD). So I think Mrs Hs position was restored as far as it was possible to do so. 
But, instead of 28 days notice of the lapse of her policy, Mrs H had only two days. This put 
her under pressure to find an alternative that suited her needs. I can understand that this 
must have been frustrating and stressful for Mrs H, especially as she had been with the 
same insurer for many years and had no intention of changing. 
Mrs H was also unhappy that her emails seeking the renewal documents werent responded 
to. But these emails were sent to the insurer, not BISL. So I cant reasonably hold BISL 
responsible for this lack of response. 
Our investigator recommended that BISL should pay Mrs H £100 in total compensation for 
the impact of not sending her the notification of non-renewal in a timely manner. I think this 
amount reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mrs H and its in keeping with our published 
guidance. I dont require BISL to increase this. 
Putting things right
I require BISL Limited to pay Mrs H £100 (in total) compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BISL 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman