DRN-3165644
The complaint
Mr K feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to his account 
when he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K complained to Barclays about charges and interest for emergency borrowing which 
were applied to his account over the last 15 years. He says the charges contributed to his 
financial difficulties.
Barclays looked at Mr Ks complaint, it felt the charges applied to his account were fair. 
Barclays also noted that Mr K had previously complained about these charges, and in July 
2019 Barclays had issued a final response regarding that complaint. So Barclays said that 
any complaint about charges from before July 2019 had been referred to us too late.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns, she agreed that Mr Ks complaint about
charges from before July 2019 had been brought to us too late. She also explained that she
didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mr Ks account from July 
2019 onwards. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I agree that any complaint about charges applied prior to 12 July 2019 has been 
referred to us too late. Where a business doesnt agree, Im not allowed to consider a 
complaint which is referred to me more than six months after the date the final response 
letter is sent. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1) can be found in the regulators handbook of 
rules and guidance, or a paper copy can be provided if requested. 
Barclays issued a final response regarding emergency borrowing fees and charges applied 
to Mr Ks account on 12 July 2019. So this means Mr K had until 12 January 2020 to refer 
his complaint to us. And as Mr K didnt refer this complaint to us until January 2021, Im 
afraid that it was referred to us out of time. 
I am allowed to investigate complaints made outside of the time limits where I am satisfied 
that the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
But Mr K hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances that meant he couldnt have 
referred that complaint to us in time, so Im satisfied that I cant consider the charges that 
were applied to his account before 12 July 2019.
I can though look at any charges applied after that date, and I will address those now.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate that Mr Ks complaint is 
about an emergency borrowing facility but this operated in the same way as an overdraft, 
so I think the same guidance and approach applies.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint about 
the charges applied from July 2019 onwards. Ill explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Mr K over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances after July 2019 where Barclays 
didnt treat Mr K fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at his 
account statements, I can see that there were periods when Mr K was using his emergency 
borrowing facility for extended periods, but I can also see that Mr K was receiving regular 
credits to his account throughout this period and did regularly repay the facility and see a 
credit balance on his account.
I accept that this doesnt mean that Mr K wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything which I think ought to have triggered Barclays to review his account in more 
detail, or alerted Barclays to any potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed with adding the interest, fees 
and charges it did or that should have prompted Barclays to contact Mr K directly to ask if he 
needed help. 
I understand that Mr K feels Barclays should have given him an overdraft rather than the 
emergency borrowing facility as the charges would then have been lower, but any decision 
regarding what products to offer a consumer is a commercial decision, and so not something 
we would get involved in. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K, but Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman