DRN-4460018
The complaint
Mr W complains about the price charged by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his car insurance policy. In particular, hes concerned the price he received 
at renewal was higher than the price he received as a new business customer. 
What happened
Mr W received a quote from LV to renew his policy for 2023 which he says was more than 
what hed paid the previous year. Mr W says he contacted LV to negotiate a lower price, but 
they declined this on the basis it wasnt possible. Mr W says he obtained a quote online 
through a broker which was cheaper. Mr W says the insurer for this policy was also LV so he 
complained as this goes against fair pricing rules introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and they also lied to him when they claimed they couldnt reduce the price. 
LV responded and explained the products they offer differ from the products they underwrite 
for brokers. They explained a direct policy from LV also differs in terms of sales channel from 
a policy bought through a broker. LV said the two policies werent therefore like for like  and 
as a result their quote was in line with the FCA fair pricing rules.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr W unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr W paid £863.62 in 2022 but then received a quote for £1,120.31 in 2023  this 
is around £250 more. LV had written to Mr W to say this was the lowest price they could 
provide. Mr W searched online and found a cheaper policy as a new business customer 
through a broker but with LV as the insurer. So, I do understand why Mr W is concerned.  
LV have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Ws      
renewal price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially 
sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And Im satisfied the price he was quoted has been 
calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other LV customers in Mr Ws 
position will have been charged a lower premium. 
Given that Mr W obtained a cheaper price from LV as a new customer, I do understand why 
he believes he hasnt been treated fairly and in line with the FCA fair pricing rules. The rules 
for general insurance pricing which Mr W refers to were introduced by the FCA in January 
2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they 
comply with these rules when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only 
apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr W was offered his renewal by LV, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. 
It's clear there is a difference in price, with the renewal price being higher than the new 
business price. But I think its important to note here, there are a number of factors which 
have led to this and, having looked at those factors, I cant say its unreasonable for there to 
be a difference in price. Firstly, its not unusual or uncommon for there to be a difference in 
price for different products. The policy bought by Mr W as a new customer, and through a 
broker, is a different product than the product LV offered on renewal. That being the case, 
the new business price has been calculated on a different platform and pricing structure 
compared to the renewal. Secondly, the new business price was obtained through a different 
sales channel than the one used by LV to generate the renewal policy  and I think its 
important to again point out that the FCA understands that different sales channels for the 
same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this is fair.
Taking these factors into account, while the renewal price was higher than the new business 
price, I cant say LV have acted against the FCA pricing rules and failed to provide Mr W with 
an ENBP. There is a price difference, but the two policies arent identical in either the 
product or the sales channel. Theres also a difference in the date the renewal quote was 
calculated and the new business quote. As mentioned above, The ENBP needs to be 
reflective of the new business price the day the renewal invite is generated  and in this 
case, it wasnt the same date. In addition to this, its not unusual or uncommon for there to 
be a difference in price where quotes are obtained on different dates. Generally this does 
impact the price as insurers regularly refresh their ratings to take into account internal and 
external factors. 
I acknowledge Mr W believes LV lied to him when they informed him they couldnt reduce 
the price below £1,120.31  and I do understand why Mr W holds this view given the 
cheaper price he obtained with LV still being the insurer. But, as mentioned above, the 
product and sales channel were different, so this wasnt like for like in all the circumstances. 
So, while I do acknowledge Mr Ws concern, I cant say LV have misled him as Ive seen no 
evidence the same renewal policy was available direct from LV at a cheaper price. 
I can see Mr W also raised a concern about LV ignoring his original letter. LV apologised for 
this in their complaint response and also acknowledged they didnt pick up on the fact that 
Mr W had made it clear in his original letter that hed taken out a policy through a broker. LV 
upheld this part of Mr Ws complaint and arranged to send Mr W £50 compensation  and I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I understand the crux of Mr Ws complaint relates to him believing that he, as a loyal 
customer at renewal, hasnt been treated the same as a new business customer. I fully 
understand why, on this basis, Mr W has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive 
checked the pricing information from LV. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or failed to 
offer Mr W an ENBP. I wish to reassure Mr W Ive read and considered everything he has 
sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman