DRN-3489973
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a whole of life policy in 1982 by Phoenix Life Limited. 
He is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing his complaint.   
What happened
In late 2020, the CMC lodged Mr As complaint with Phoenix. It said at the time of the sale, 
Mr A had been single without dependents and had no need for the life cover provided by the 
policy. It also complained that he took a further top up plan in 1992, which would not have 
been required if this policy hadnt been mis-sold in the first place.  
Phoenix issued a final response to the complaint in January 2021 where it upheld the 
complaint in part. It said that the top-up policy in 1992 hadnt gone ahead, so there was no 
mis-sale to consider. In terms of the original policy, it said that whilst it was not automatically 
unsuitable to offer £100,000 cover under a whole of life policy to a young, single person it 
recognised that at the time of the sale the policy was not likely to be appropriate for Mr A.  
Phoenix undertook a redress calculation where it worked out the total premiums paid, less 
the cost of life cover from 1985 (totalling £7,044.84), when Mr A had gotten married. To this 
it added interest at rates of 15% and 8% from 1 April 1993. However, the total refund came 
to £17,598 which was less than the policys sum assured of £23,886 at 5 December 2020. 
So, Phoenix did not believe any payment was due to Mr A. However, the CMC did not agree 
with the redress set out by Phoenix. It said that accounting for Mr As circumstances after the 
sale had taken place was irrelevant. It submitted that Mr A sought a complete refund of all 
the premiums he had paid for the policy since the outset, on the basis it should never have 
been sold to him.  
The complaint was referred to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She looked specifically at the way Phoenix had decided it should put matters 
right after it had upheld the complaint. 
She asked Phoenix to reconfirm its calculation to assist Mr A, given some time had since 
passed whilst the complaint was pursued to this service. It confirmed that the redress would 
have been £19,309.15 to date. However, since the policy remained in force with an 
increased surrender value of approximately £26,281, Mr A hadnt suffered any financial loss.  
Our investigator felt the redress offer was calculated fairly. She thought it was reasonable to 
look at Mr As circumstances from 1985 in deciding what he would have otherwise done  
and basing redress on his changed circumstances at that time wasnt unfair. 
The CMC said Mr A disagreed. It referred to two other decisions which had been upheld by 
this service relating to the mis-selling of whole of life policies. On both occasions, this service 
had said the policies were unsuitable, and directed that redress was due. The redress 
consisted of a refund of all premiums with interest, less the policys surrender value.  
It also explained that the fact the policy remained in force was irrelevant; what it felt was key 
was that the policy was unsuitable for Mr A from the outset. The CMC told our investigator 
that Mr A wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I believe the outcome reached by Phoenix was 
reasonable. So, while it determined there was not a reason to recommend the policy to Mr A 
in 1982, it would have been a prudent suggestion to take out a form of life cover in 1985. 
Phoenix said that its adviser at the time likely did not provide the appropriate care in giving 
the recommendation where the policy was sold as a means of life cover to Mr A at a time 
when he had no dependants or financial liabilities. This is the same argument put forward by 
the CMC on Mr As behalf, so both parties agree that the policy should not have been sold. It 
is not necessary for me to make further findings about that because this primary aspect of 
the complaint has been upheld by Phoenix.
In any event, it is worth noting that investment advice became regulated under the Financial 
Services Act 1986 with effect from 29 April 1988. Before this date, advisers didnt have to 
consider if a recommendation was suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, they 
had to advise with reasonable skill and care, ensuring they didnt make mis-statements and 
that material information (if relevant) was disclosed.  
The remaining point of dispute concerns the life cover provided by the policy which has been 
factored into Phoenixs redress calculation. I note the CMC refers to other complaints at this 
service which gave redress of a full refund of premiums, including the full cost of life cover. 
However, no two cases are factually identical and that an ombudsman or investigator may 
have proposed different redress in a complaint with similar circumstances does not set a 
precedent nor does it compel me to reach the same conclusion. Instead, I must look at the 
evidence and reach a fair and reasonable outcome by making findings on the specific facts 
in this complaint. 
Having done so, I find Phoenixs offer to be reasonable. Two and a half years after the policy 
began, Mr A married, and went on to have dependent children. And in 2006, he placed the 
policy in trust for the benefit of his family. Given these circumstances and the fact this was 
revisited by Mr A in 1992 when he was considering further life cover through a top-up policy, 
I dont find Phoenix to be unfair in accounting for Mr A having a need for the life cover 
provided by the policy from the point at which he had financial dependants. I say this 
particularly noting how it was relatively proximate to the original recommendation. 
I do not believe it would be fair for Mr A to be refunded all the premiums hes paid to the 
policy, with interest. While he had no obvious need for the policy at the outset, within three 
years his circumstances had changed materially, whereby life cover wouldve become 
useful. And he has, from that point on, maintained the policy for almost 37 years.
I think its therefore fair to conclude, on balance, that Mr A has wished to maintain benefits 
that he has seen as useful in terms of life cover. So, in my view, I dont believe it is 
reasonable for him to receive full premiums back whilst he has benefitted from the cover 
provided by the policy for almost four decades. Further, had Mr A passed away during that 
time, a claim could have been made under the policy.Putting things right
I believe the offer agreed to by Phoenix fairly reflects Mr As overall circumstances and 
acknowledges that its adviser sold the policy to Mr A slightly earlier than he otherwise may 
have required. I say this in recognition that there will be no compensation due to Mr A, 
because the redress calculation is less than the total surrender value of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in so far as consider the offer made by Phoenix Life Limited to be a 
fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman