DRN-2925706
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited handled a subsidence claim 
under her home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mrs D made a claim to Ageas for subsidence damage to her garage in February 2018. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. It thought the damage had been 
caused by water leaking from defective drains. It repaired the drainage defect. After that it 
monitored the property from July 2018 to January 2019 to ensure the property had stopped 
moving. Then it started repairs.
At the end of November to early December 2019 Ageass builder repaired the garage walls 
and replaced the garage doors. The next step was to work on the roof. Mrs D says she rang 
the builder on 9 December to ask when this would start as shed been told it would be soon. 
She was promised a call back but said she heard nothing. After two more calls several days 
later she said she was told the roofing work would start on 7 January 2020. 
The roofer didnt turn up on 7 January. Mrs D says she was told by the builder that the 
materials werent available, so the job had been rebooked for 9 January. When she rang 
the roofer, she said she was told her job hadnt been booked in for the 7th after all. She felt 
shed been misled by the builder.
On 9 January the roofer didnt turn up. According to Mrs D they told her the job had been 
cancelled by the builder when they were almost at her property. The builder said this was 
due to an email from the loss adjuster which implied they might not be paid. 
Ageas denies that Mrs D was told the roof works would be done before Christmas or 
started on 7 January. It apologised for the poor service Mrs D had received and paid her 
£150 compensation.
Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. She thought Ageas 
should pay Mrs D a further £100 compensation. As Mrs D didnt agree, the matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at how Ageas handled Mrs Ds claim from 7 June 2019 when it issued a final 
response for a previous complaint to the date when it issued its final response in respect of 
this complaint, being 12 February 2020.
I should mention that awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  
thats the job of the regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a 
degree of trouble attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers 
how much compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has 
caused to its policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see 
associated with a claim of this type.
There are two main issues complained about. The first is poor communication on the part of 
Ageas. Mrs D felt she had to keep ringing Ageas to find out what was going on with respect 
to her claim. I can understand that this would have been frustrating for her. I can see that 
the contractor told the loss adjuster at the end of November that additional works would be 
required to the garage roof. The loss adjuster chased the contractor for more information 
about this so that it could get approval from Ageas. This issue wasnt resolved until 10 
January. So the loss adjuster was aware that no work would be done to Mrs Ds garage 
roof between these dates. There is conflicting information from Ageas/the loss adjuster and 
Mrs D as to what Mrs D was told about the roof works. I cant be sure exactly what was 
said. But I am persuaded that Ageas didnt take reasonable steps to ensure that Mrs D was 
aware that the roof works would be delayed.
I also think that regardless of the Christmas period intervening it shouldnt have taken so 
long for Ageas to approve the variation in works to the roof.
Mrs D lives alone and made herself unavailable for teaching work on the days when she 
thought builders would be at her property. She was also waiting for the works to be finished 
so that she could take a long-awaited holiday overseas. I dont doubt that both the delay 
and poor communication would have been stressful for Mrs D. 
But its only fair for me to recognise that Ageas has acknowledged its service should have 
been much better and that its paid £150 to compensate Mrs D for the trouble and upset it 
caused her. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that additional 
compensation of £100 would be fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs D but Ive thought about this services approach to awards made in 
similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Ageas should pay Mrs D an additional £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs D an additional £100 
compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman