DRN-4499951
The complaint
Mr C complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion) unfairly 
lowered his credit score, affecting his ability to obtain a mortgage. 
What happened
At the beginning of April 2023 TransUnion was displaying Mr Cs credit score as 629. Around 
the same time, Mr C switched his current account from one bank (Bank A) to another (Bank 
B) this included matching an overdraft facility. By the end of April 2023, Mr Cs credit score 
had reduced to 584. Mr C says that it was this drop in score that caused problems when he 
was trying to obtain a mortgage for a holiday home. He says two of the three lenders he 
applied to told him his score didnt fall within the parameters of their lending criteria.
Mr C felt there was no justifiable reason for the drop in his credit score as the current 
account he switched from mirrored the account he switched to, and so even though the new 
account had an overdraft it wasnt new credit, so no hard search should have been carried 
out on his credit file. And so, he complained to TransUnion and asked them to increase the 
score back to its previous figure of 629. 
TransUnion didnt uphold his complaint, in summary they said that the score they generate is 
purely an indicator for Mr C of how lenders might perceive his credit worthiness. The score is 
calculated based on the information reported TransUnion by financial companies and other 
sources, about account performance. The score isnt shared with the lenders and 
TransUnion dont play any part in the lenders decisions to lend or not, as all lenders have 
their own criteria to assess applications against. They went on to say the scoring model is 
sensitive and not accessible for staff to make manual changes to, as to be able to do this 
would reduce the value of the credit scoring service.
Mr C remained unhappy with TransUnions response and so brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint was one that should be upheld as he 
didnt think TransUnion had done anything wrong. 
Mr C disagreed and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me.
There doesnt appear to be any errors in the information that TransUnion is displaying in Mr 
Cs credit file and so I dont think it is obvious to me that they have given him a wrong 
score. They have explained there are many factors they use when calculating the score 
through an automated process and given examples of some of these. So, I expect certain 
things are impacting the score differently to how Mr C thinks these might or should.
For example, Mr C has spoken about the hard search on his credit file from switching bank 
accounts, and that there was no new credit applied for. I understand that Mr C doesnt 
believe Bank B needed to do a hard search to be able to provide his new account and 
overdraft facility as it was only matching what he already had with Bank A. However, I think it 
would be useful for me to explain to Mr C here, although Bank B was only matching the 
facilities he already had, it was new borrowing to them so its normal industry practice for 
them to have conducted the hard search. And this would be considered new borrowing, so 
could impact his credit score.
Having said that, conducting a hard search was a decision Bank B made, so not something I 
can reasonably hold TransUnion accountable for. If Mr C feels strongly that this shouldnt 
have happened or that he should have been given more information about the impact 
switching accounts could have on his credit score, then he may wish to speak to Bank B 
about it.
Mr C has said that it was this reduction in his score that led to him having trouble getting a 
mortgage on his holiday home. And while I accept what Mr C is saying  that two of the 
lenders said his credit score didnt meet their criteria, I think that its more likely than not that 
they are talking about their own internal scoring systems. I say this because, as TransUnion 
has explained, the score they provide is used only as an indicator of how a consumer 
handles credit. Theyve confirmed that no one except the consumer and TransUnion has 
access to the specific score it generates. Businesses that provide credit have their own 
systems in place to assess applications and dont have access to TransUnions credit score 
 only the information about the types of credit a consumer has. So, I cant fairly say 
TransUnions score has caused Mr Cs mortgage applications to decline.
And while this situation is no doubt frustrating for Mr C  it might help to look at the score as 
TransUnions view rather than something which is set in stone. Ultimately, lenders might 
decide that other things are more important, and they will have their own system in place 
where Mr C might score differently. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TransUnion can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman