DRN-2953605
The complaint
Ms P says Fortrade Limited (FL) did as follows:
Failed to carry out adequate assessments of her applications to open trading 
accounts in 2019 (USD account) and 2020 (Euro account). [issue 1]
Gave her unsuitable trading advice (and guidance), unduly influenced her trading and 
pressured her to make deposits into her account(s) and to increase her trading. 
[issue 2]
Mismanaged the reactivation of specific Crude Oil positions (COPs) that were 
stopped out on 17 April 2020 and reactivated on 21 April 2020, causing her a 
significant financial loss. [issue 3]
Failed, in the above issues, to uphold her bests interests as required by regulations, 
and failed to uphold regulatory Principles associated with that.  [issue 4]
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and liaised with both parties in the course 
of doing so. She concluded mainly as follows:
The complaint should not be upheld.
With regards to issue 1, FL provided an execution only service, so it was obliged to 
assess appropriateness of Ms Ps accounts for her. Available evidence shows that in 
her April 2019 application she presented herself as having credentials, including 
more than five years of experience in trading Contracts for Differences (CFDs), that 
FL reasonably relied upon to deem the account appropriate for her. FL used the 
same information to conclude that the account opened in 2020 was also appropriate 
for her. She had become unemployed at the time, but she informed FL that she was 
using funds from her other investments and she gave no notice of being in financial 
difficulties. Furthermore, being unemployed would not have automatically meant the 
account was inappropriate.
FLs execution only service meant it was not regulated to give advice but could give 
guidance to its clients. With regards to issue 2, the regulators definition of advice 
requires an opinion from a firm which carries the force of a recommendation and 
influences a clients course of action. In the main, evidence of the discussions 
between Ms P and FL does not establish such advice. There was generic guidance 
from FL to her, which did not amount to advice. Evidence also does not show that its 
guidance was incorrect, that she was pressured to follow its guidance  some of 
which she did not follow  or that she was pressured to make deposits or to trade. 
She says FL continued to call her even after she decided to stop trading, but the 
regulators rules permit firms to call their existing customers and there does not 
appear to be evidence that she instructed FL not to contact her.
With regards to issue 3, a summary of the relevant events is that Ms Ps long COPs 
were stopped out on 17 April 2020 at the price level of around $17; she contacted FL 
and sought a way to mitigate the loss impact; FL offered to reactivate them and the 
reactivations happened on 21 April 2020. She says the plan was to reopen them at 
the closing/stop-out price level but her investment strategy changed, as did the 
market, thereafter so the reactivation that followed was detrimental. However, 
evidence shows that, on 21 April, FL sent her a reactivation request email which she 
responded to on the same date to confirm that she wanted the reactivation. She also 
says steps taken by FL to deposit into and then withdraw from the account 50,000 
Euros  in order to support the reactivation without triggering stop outs  caused her 
confusion over her account balance and affected her trading (made her open more 
trades in the misled belief that her balance was more than it actually was). However, 
account activity evidence shows that she placed no trades during the period in which 
FL applied the reactivations, and her first trade around seven minutes after the 
reactivation happened when her account balance was back to normal.
Ms P disagreed with the investigators findings. She referred to the communication example 
used by the investigator and from which the investigator concluded no more than generic 
guidance had been given by FL. She said FL went further than that and probed into her 
other investments without cause to do so; that it pressured her to deposit more capital in the 
account under the guise that it would give her more trading capacity and reduce the risk of 
stop outs; and that it misled her in this respect because account balance alone would not 
reduce the risk of stop outs, instead the balance/position ratio is more relevant to that risk. 
With regards to issue 3, she said FL had no right to take steps that fluctuated her account 
balance and that the fluctuation caused her confusion which impacted on her trading 
decisions at the time.
The complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Issue 1
Appropriateness, under the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules and 
at COBS 10 and 10A, must be assessed by a firm in order to determine whether (or not) a 
client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in the 
service or product offered by the firm. This applies to products and/or services delivered to 
clients without advice and it is distinct from the duty to give suitable advice (which does not 
apply to an execution only service). In terms of assessing appropriateness, the following is 
important:
Information about any type of service(s) and investment product(s) the client is 
familiar with.
Information about the nature, volume, frequency and length of the clients experience 
in any such service(s) and investment product(s).
A firm is not required to notify its client if the assessment concludes that its service or 
product is appropriate. However, it is obliged to warn the client if the assessment concludes 
that its service or product is inappropriate. If, despite the warning, the client still wishes to 
proceed with the service or product the firm has discretion to allow the client to do so  
having regard to the circumstances.
Ms Ps first trading with FL began with the USD account in April 2019. Available evidence is 
that she placed 131 trades (a total of 2.14 lots) in this account before the second (Euro) account was opened in March 2020. She then appears to have traded in the second account 
until June 2020 and placed a total of 255 trades (a total of 301.92 lots) within it.
FL says Ms P presented, at the outset (in 2019), information about having more than five 
years of CFD and other trading experience, and that she worked in the financial services 
sector with professional experience of investments and financial instruments. Record of 
application and onboarding information given online by Ms P at the outset has been shared 
with this service and it supports FLs description. The record says Ms P confirmed more than 
five years CFD trading experience (with trading frequency of up to twice per week), more 
than five years other trading experience (with trading frequency of up to twice per week), 
average trading size of $10,000 and up to five trades in the preceding 12 months. She also 
confirmed having trading knowledge from a relevant role in financial services and a 
relevant financial qualification.
Ms P disputes this record and she has stressed that she had no CFD trading experience 
until the experience she had in the FL account. However, on balance, I consider the record 
reliable. I have not seen evidence that establishes FL falsified her account application 
details. Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that she presented to FL a profile that made 
the trading account (and CFD trading) appropriate for her. As the investigator explained, FL 
was not obliged to verify that the information she gave was true, unless it had cause to doubt 
the information. I have not seen evidence that FL ought reasonably to have doubted the 
information Ms P submitted at the time of her application. 
COBS 10.4.2 (R) says a firm  is not required to make a new assessment [of 
appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate transaction  by its client(s), and that a 
firm providing clients with a regulated service complies with the rules for assessing 
appropriateness  provided that it makes the necessary appropriateness assessment 
before beginning that service. This means a firm is not required to review appropriateness 
after the initial assessment.
However, a change in the service to Ms P did trigger the need to review appropriateness. 
That change in service was her new account in 2020. The additional account amounted to a 
change. The duty to assess appropriateness must be discharged at the outset of providing 
a new service or change in service to a client, so this applied to the new account. Given that 
her profile at the outset (in 2019) made a trading account (and CFD trading) appropriate for 
her and given that her profile was added to by the 131 trades she conducted in the first 
account from April 2019 onwards, I consider that her profile for the second account in March 
2020 made it appropriate for her  and I have not seen evidence that FL had cause for 
doubts in this respect. 
Like the investigator noted, despite Ms P being unemployed at the time no notice of financial 
hardship was given by her to FL, so it had no cause to consider the account unaffordable for 
her. It is worth noting that affordability is not a part of assessing appropriateness.  However, 
Ms P has correctly referred to the duty all firms have to uphold their clients best interests. 
The regulators rule in this respect exists in COBS 2.1.1 (R), which says A firm must act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. If Ms P 
was in financial difficulty around the opening of the second account in 2020 and if FL knew 
that, it should have reacted to such news by upholding her best interests and it should 
arguably have refused or withdrawn the second account (and closed the first) in order to 
negate the potential for her to incur any further financial loss.
I do not consider that there is persuasive evidence of Ms P being in financial hardship at the 
relevant time. If I am wrong in this respect, perhaps because complete insight into her 
financial circumstances at the time is unknown, what appears to be certain is that no notice 
was given by her to FL that she faced such hardship. In those circumstances, FL was not obliged to consider affordability on her behalf, and it was not obliged to review her accounts 
and/or trading to negate her exposure to the risk of financial loss. Beyond this context, FL 
would ordinarily have had duty to monitor the account given the execution only nature of its 
service. The responsibility to monitor and manage the account(s) was solely Ms Ps, as 
confirmed in the terms she agreed.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded that the trading accounts 
were inappropriate for Ms P and I do not uphold issue 1.
Issue 2
Investment advice is:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) gives the following guidance:
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
A key message in the above guidance is the need to establish that a value judgement, about 
the merits (or otherwise) of an investment (including trading), was conveyed by an adviser to 
an investor, which influenced the latters investment decision.
In a nutshell, FLs position is that its service did not include advice, it was not authorised to 
give advice, it gave no advice to Ms P, it did no more than share information with her and discuss with her general matters related to her account and the markets, and she holds sole 
responsibility (in contract and in practice) for the trading (and trading outcomes) in her 
account. 
Ms Ps complaint submissions include a statement of claims from her lawyers (addressed to 
FL) and her description of the complaint to this service. With relevance to issue 2, the former 
alleged that FL had failed to  manage her account and money, for which she claimed 
almost 200,000 Euros (over three quarters of which being lost capital and the rest being lost 
profit) as compensation for alleged resulting losses; and that the same claim includes the 
allegation that she was misled by  unprofessional advice and double charging [her] to re-
activate her positions . The events between 17 and 21 April 2020 were mentioned in her 
lawyers submissions but details of any other specific incidents of alleged unsuitable trading 
advice (or mismanagement) were not. In the main, the wider allegation about unsuitable 
advice was presented as follows:
Your employees advised our client on how to trade. Your employee sent analyses or
calculations, then called our client to clarify the details and encouraged her to trade
following the analyses/calculations/signals received (also clarified by phone) which were
based on past earnings. During these phone conversations, the manager did not mention
the risks associated with trading and that could follow the analyses/calculations/signals
received. Our client opened the operations as suggested during the phone conversations
and based on the analyses/calculations/signals received.
In her complaint form, submitted to this service, Ms P made the same claim for 
compensation presented by her lawyers based on the same value (plus a claim for lost 
potential profit); she alleged that FL had assigned her an unlicensed broker, which she 
considered as a criminal act; and she alleged fraud against FL. She too referred to the 
events between 17 and 21 April 2020, but to no other specific incidents of alleged unsuitable 
trading advice (or mismanagement) leading to a claim for financial loss.
A number of transcripts, of discussions between the parties, have been shared with this 
service. Overall, they illustrate a somewhat mixed picture. Mainly there are some 
discussions in which FL remained within the remit of providing information and generic 
guidance to Ms P and some in which it remained within the same remit but perhaps went too 
close to the dividing line between the provision of information and the provision of advice; 
and then there is evidence that shows FL sometimes seeking to influence her decisions in 
the account(s). She has asked us to pay attention to the discussions in which she considers 
she was pressured to make deposits into the account and was led to believe a minimum 
level of deposit was required. 
I have considered the relevant transcript(s) and, on balance, I consider it falls short of 
showing pressure on Ms P to make deposits, given that she appears to have retained 
control, at all times, of her discretion in this respect and FL does not appear to have pushed 
against or breached that control; that it illustrates inappropriate enquiries by FL into her 
personal financial affairs; that it could be viewed as evidence of account management advice 
from FL, but it also could be viewed as an example of where FL went too close to the 
dividing line between the provision of information and the provision of advice; and that, 
overall, Ms P appears to have been a wilful participant in the exchanges  displaying an 
equally wilful interest in FLs ideas  so this further dilutes the allegation about pressure. In 
other respects, I agree with the investigators finding (and reasons) about an overall lack of 
evidence of pressure by FL upon Ms P.
A further observation on the allegation of pressure from FL, is that the transcripts illustrate 
an overall picture in which FL could be blunt and assertive in conveying information to Ms P 
 with regard to positions she wanted to open or close, with regards to equity and margin in her account and with regards to the overall state of the account (and trading within it). It 
could be the same in the instances where it gave generic information and where it sought to 
influence her decisions. However, I am not quite persuaded that its actions amounted to 
undue pressure. Ms P was mainly receptive to what FL had to say and, overall, she invited 
many, if not most, of its input during the conversations, even where it was FL who called and 
initiated the conversations. I do not consider that she would have done so if she viewed such 
input negatively, and as the investigator noted she appears to have retained her discretion 
(and power to make decisions) at all times and sometimes went against FLs input.
For the sake of completeness, I am satisfied with the balance of evidence showing that Ms P 
maintained management of her account and the trading within it. Decisions in those respects 
were made by her, and the mixture of discussions she had with FL gave her information to 
do so or in more or most cases and, as I noted above, influenced her decisions in others.
In isolation, the allegation that FL influenced Ms Ps account management and/or trading 
decisions, and therefore gave her investment advice when it was not authorised to do so is a 
regulatory matter. The same applies to any fraud Ms P seeks to allege  which, in addition to 
any crimes she seeks to allege, are also matters for the police. Nothing in this decision 
addresses any of these. It is beyond this services remit to address matters about regulation 
or crime.
If Ms Ps allegation extends to one of unsuitable advice resulting in a financial loss, that is a 
different matter and is one we could consider. Ms P has alleged unsuitable advice and/or 
guidance by FL and, in total, her claim for compensation has been revised (and increased) 
to 600,000 Euros. However, no specific unsuitably advised or misguided trade/trading has 
been established and proven (on balance) to support her claim for compensation  for the 
sake of clarity, I do not include in this finding the events between 17 and 21 April 2020, 
which are treated separately under issue 3 (below). 
The investigator made the same observation in her initial view, and she invited Ms P to 
substantiate this area if she wished to retain it in her complaint. In response, Ms P appears 
to have concentrated her points on issues 1 and 3, and she does not appear to have 
presented substance for issue 2.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that a substantive claim has been made in issue 
2; available evidence is that FL mainly provided Ms P with information but sometimes veered 
into influencing her decisions for the account; however, a specific claim(s) about specific 
incident(s) of alleged unsuitable advice (causing a financial loss) has not been established.
On balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold issue 2. 
Issue 3
The investigator presented very well founded (and tested) conclusions on this issue. There is 
relatively substantial correspondence between her and Ms P in this respect and in which 
related evidence was thoroughly addressed. A number of arguments and allegations were 
made by Ms P in the process. However, instead of reflecting all those arguments and 
allegations, I present a chronology of events below (all dated in 2020) that is supported by 
account activity, transcript and screenshot evidence that has been made available to us. I 
consider that the chronology leads to natural conclusions on the key aspects of issue 3 and, 
in the course of doing so, the chronology also addresses the core arguments by Ms P.
17 April  the three long COPs (P1, P2 and P3), totalling four lots, were stopped 
out/closed out due to a margin breach; they had been opened between 7 and 9 April 
and they were all closed out at losses; P1 (two lots) had been opened at the price of 27.070 and closed at the price of 18.040; P2 (one lot) had been opened at the price 
of 26.720 and closed at the price of 17.610; P3 (one lot) had been opened at the 
price of 26.500 and closed at the price of 17.610; and in total (including swap 
charges) the closures crystalized a loss of around 33,500 Euros. 
 
17 April  after the close-outs, transcript evidence shows that Ms P called FL, made 
a plea for help and discussed reactivation of the positions; FL agreed; she agreed 
that the positions should be opened at or around the price levels they were closed; 
the discussion moved to the effect upon the accounts margin at the time and in the 
event of the reactivation; and the discussion concluded with an agreement for Ms P 
to fund the account with 30,000 Euros to aid the reactivation process. Further 
discussion took place and affirmed this plan, with reference to trying to reactivate 
them as close as possible, depending on market price movements, to the price level 
of $17. FL was to email Ms P a summary of the arrangement and she was to reply 
when she wanted the positions reactivated.
20 to 21 April  trading activity continued in the account.
21 April  at 07:08 hours 30,000 Euros was deposited by Ms P into the account; at 
12:40 hours FL emailed Ms P a summary of the arrangement (including reference to 
execution depending on market price); and she replied at 12:50 hours to instruct the 
reactivation. 
21 April  after receipt of Ms Ps instruction FL proceeded with the activation process. 
At 13:19 hours it did all the following; it added 50,000 Euros to the account in order to 
bolster the accounts equity and avoid the positions being stopped out during 
reactivation [this increased the accounts balance from around 139,000 Euros to 
around 189,000 Euros]; in the context of reactivation it then cancelled the losses 
crystalized when the three positions were closed out and returned the total loss of 
around 33,500 Euros to the account [which increased the accounts balance to 
almost 223,000 Euros]; and it then reactivated the three long positions (four lots) at 
the price level of around $14 with a neutral/zero profit/loss effect. At 13:24 hours, and 
also in the context of reactivation, FL then compensated Ms P for the difference 
between the closing price of the old positions and the opening price of the 
new/reactivated positions and added around 13,000 Euros to the account in this 
respect; and, to conclude the process, it subtracted from the account the 50,000 
Euros initially added for the purpose of making the reactivation work; the net effect of 
these last two steps was an account balance of around 186,000 Euros.
21 April  at 13:31 hours Ms P resumed trading in her account. Until this time, no 
trading had taken place since 13:17 hours.
Ms P concedes that the correct post-reactivation balance in her account was indeed the 
figure of around 186,000 Euros that stood after the process, so there is no dispute in this 
respect. Her disputes appear to be that FL reactivated the positions at the wrong price level 
 which she says had a negative effect on the account and its other contents  and that FLs 
addition and the subtraction of an imaginary 50 K in the reactivation process was done 
without a right to do so, without her knowledge or consent and that it disrupted her view of 
the state of her account, disrupted her trading at the time and disrupted her risk assessment 
at the time  leading to the stop-outs that subsequently happened. She says the process 
was not in her interest and that FL  suggested it only to earn more money from [her] .
I do not accept Ms Ps arguments. Evidence shows that reactivation of the three COPs was 
discussed by both parties in response to her plea for help with the losses crystalized by those positions being closed out. They were discussed and executed in her interest, her 
eagerness and gratitude for the reactivations are reasonably clear in the transcripts of the 
discussions she had with FL. The above chronology  and the documentary evidence that 
supports it  shows that FL took steps to repair the crystalized losses from 17 April and to 
make the difference between the close out prices and reactivation prices, all designed to 
place Ms Ps account into a position as though the stop outs on 17 April never happen. 
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied that the entire process was done in her interest. It is 
worth noting that FL exercised its discretion to agree and execute this reactivation process, it 
did not have to do so and had it not done so Ms P would have been left with her total 
crystalized loss of around 33,500 Euros from the close outs.
The agreed plan was that upon receipt of Ms Ps instruction FL would execute the 
reactivations. She was told she could do this when the market price level was around the 
level(s) at which the positions had been closed. She instructed the reactivations on 21 April 
and FL executed them at available market prices  which were beyond its control  on that 
date. Its email to her, prior to her instruction, referred to dependence on market price, so she 
was forewarned about that. Overall, I do not consider that FL was wrong to have reactivated 
the positions at the price they were reactivated.
FLs use of 50,000 Euros (added and then withdrawn) was done to aid execution of the 
reactivations that Ms P wanted and agreed to, so it was done in her interest. As depicted 
above, most of the process (including the addition of 50,000 Euros) was carried out within 
the same minute (that is, 13.19 hours). It would not have been feasible to seek her approval 
of this aspect as the process was ongoing, and I am not persuaded that she ought to have 
been given prior notice of it. It was a practical step that FL took, within its discretion, to make 
the reactivations work and I do not consider it to have been unreasonable.
The investigator addressed Ms Ps claims about alleged disruptions to her trading and risk 
assessment and concluded they were unfounded. I agree. As the investigator said, no 
trading took place during the overall reactivation process  between 13:19 hours and 13;24 
hours on 21 April  and Ms P did not resume trading, which she appears to have last done at 
13:17 hours, until 13:31 hours. With such inaction during the reactivation process, and for a 
further seven minutes after the process ended, it is unlikely that the process affected Ms Ps 
trading as she claims. 
Evidence of all the running and opened trades on 21 April shows that three of the positions 
that were stopped out later in the day appear to have been opened before the reactivation 
process began; that the rest of those stopped out, including the reactivated positions, appear 
to have been opened thereafter (between 13:19 hours and 17:49 hours); and that there was 
active trading from 13:31 hours onwards when the process had ended (and when the correct 
account balance was in place). On balance and in this context, the process did not and 
would not have disrupted Ms Ps trading decisions. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold issue 3.
Issue 4
It follows from the above findings that I do not consider FL breached Ms Ps best interests. I 
acknowledge her claim about FL breaching regulations and, in this respect, I repeat my 
finding that FL sometimes engaged with her to the extent of influencing her decisions for the 
account and, essentially, giving advice  if the latter was done contrary to FLs regulatory 
authorities that is a matter about regulation. This services remit does not extend to 
regulating firms. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman