The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) defaulted her credit card account which 
has damaged her credit rating without contacting her first.  
What happened
Ms S suffers with depression and anxiety. In 2018 she wasnt working due to ill health and 
her only income was sickness benefits. She had difficulty keeping up payments on her 
HSBC credit card.  A payment plan was agreed for September 2018 but the first payment 
was missed. Ms S said she could make the payment by the end of September and then on 
the fifteenth of the month thereafter. 
HSBC agreed a new plan on this basis. It froze interest and charges on the account. The 
payments for September and October were late and December was missed. HSBC sent 
several letters about arrears and payment plans including a letter threatening default of the 
credit agreement on 12 November 2018. These confirmed reports could be made to credit 
references agencies (CRAs) if payment arrangements werent kept or if the account was 
defaulted. 
On 14 January Ms S called HSBC. She said due to her anxiety and depression she was 
concerned about the letters she was receiving. She was told the letters were for information 
and she should call if she was concerned. HSBC said it would refer Ms S to a specialist 
team who dealt with customers with health problems but letters might still be sent. Ms S said 
it hadnt been explained that her account could be still be defaulted whilst on payment plan. 
The call handler explained the process about reduced and missed payments and offered to 
check what had happened. Ms S made a payment over the phone and said she could pay 
more in a few days. This would avoid another missed payment being recorded. 
HSBC opened a complaint and listened to previous calls. It concluded Ms S had been 
informed about its debt collection process and called to confirm this. Ms S accepted the 
explanation. In these calls Ms S advised HSBC that she had got married, was moving 
abroad and expected to start a new job soon. She asked HSBC to call and email her as she 
wouldnt have access to letters immediately. It said some things had to go in the post but it 
would see what could be done. 
The specialist team called on 17 January and offered a plan to reage of the credit card. 
Provided the agreed payments were made for three months the arrears would be added to 
the balance. This would wipe the slate in terms of missed payments reducing the risk of 
default if there were any future problems. The first payment would be 28 January and Ms S 
agreed to this.
DRN-1371810On 30 January Ms S called HSBC. She said due to a bank error on her current account (with 
a different bank) she hadnt been able to make the first payment on the reage plan but would 
do so as soon as possible. HSBCs system had already issued a final demand letter that 
day. But it agreed a new reage plan with a start date of 28 February. This gave Ms S another 
four weeks before the first payment was due. 
HSBC suggested Ms S set up a standing order for the payments to avoid any problems. It 
explained how to do this and Ms S said she would set one up. The payment due in February 
wasnt made. 
On 11 March HSBC called Ms S. She said she had been in hospital and was unable to 
contact it or access her online banking to make a payment. HSBC said as this was the 
second time the reage plan had been defaulted on it would need to check if any options 
were still available and would call her back. System notes show it decided it would continue 
the reage plan, provided Ms S could make a payment to cover what was due under the plan 
for February and March. It called her back to advise this but there was no answer and a 
voicemail was left asking her to contact them. 
HSBC say as there was no reply or payment it defaulted the account on 22 March.
Ms S called HSBC with a query on 26 March saying she had tried to call the week before but 
couldnt pass security and was waiting for a security pack to be sent. HSBC didnt have a 
record of this call. It advised Ms S her account had now been defaulted. Ms S was very 
unhappy and complained that this would impact her credit file. HSBC rejected her complaint 
saying several payment plans had been defaulted on and it had followed normal processes 
and wouldnt change the credit file. 
Ms S referred her complaint to our service. She said HSBC hadnt treated her fairly as she 
had made payments but had struggled despite HSBC pledging to help people with mental 
health problems. She says HSBC ignored requests to keep her informed before the account 
was defaulted.
Our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint. She said HSBC had sent 
letters confirming what might happen if her account defaulted and had explained the default 
process to her on the phone. It had tried to contact Ms S to offer a further plan but without a 
response or a payment it had then defaulted her account. As it had followed normal 
procedure and provided correct information to the CRAs it hadnt done anything wrong.
Ms S disagreed. She said HSBC had ignored her requests to keep her informed by email or 
phone and this hadnt been considered. She said it was agreed that HSBC wouldnt default 
her account and then it had been done without any warning. She said listening to the calls 
would show this.
As Ms S disagrees the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
Banks are expected to treat customers fairly and reasonably over debt problems and 
particularly so for people potentially vulnerable due to poor health. I understand that things 
have been difficult for Ms S, but I havent seen any evidence that HSBC hasnt treated her fairly and reasonably. 
In her response to our investigator Ms S says that HSBC:
specifically agreed that default would not be the best route for anyone and that 
together we'd try to resolve it. 
Having listened to the calls and in reviewed its actions I think HSBC has dealt with Ms S 
sympathetically and made considerable attempts to help her in line with the guidance 
provided by the Financial Conduct Authority and the British Banking Association principles 
about improving outcomes for vulnerable customers. 
It didnt agree that it wouldnt default her account without contacting her and I think it gave 
her every opportunity to get her finances back in order before it eventually did so. HSBC 
then provided accurate information about the situation to CRAs. That will clearly have an 
impact on Ms S  but it doesnt mean that it has acted wrongly in doing this.
I think HSBC did inform Ms S about its debt recovery process and the consequences of 
default in terms of adverse credit reference reports. I am satisfied that she understood the 
repayment plans she agreed to and the potential consequences of not keeping to them. 
When Ms S told HSBC she was anxious about the letters she was receiving, it introduced its 
specialist team who deal with vulnerable customers. And it continued to offer payment plans 
to help, despite her not keeping to previous plans. When Ms S defaulted on this new plan at 
the end of January, she offered to try to make a payment on a credit card, but HSBC refused 
saying this would wrong as it would make her debt situation worse. It offered another 
payment plan and a further month before any payment was due to give Ms S more time. 
Ms S says didnt keep to the second reage plan with a payment date of 28 February 
because she was in hospital and couldnt access her online banking or call HSBC. But she 
had agreed on the 30 January that she would set up standing order to make these payments 
that would have avoided this. 
HSBC was still prepared to offer a further reage plan to Ms S on 11 March as a special 
concession because of the problems she had faced.  It was another eleven days before the 
account was defaulted as Ms S didnt make contact or a payment in the interim. 
Ms S said she did call once but couldnt pass security although HSBC has no record of this. 
It is clear from the call on the 11 March that Ms S understood that the situation was now very 
serious. So under the circumstances I am surprised she didnt try to contact HSBC again 
until the 26 March, when she was able to pass security. So I dont think if HSBC had sent 
emails or made more calls the outcome would have been any different. 
Overall I think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its treatment of Mrs S and has done 
nothing wrong and I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman