DRN-1590458
 
The complaint
Miss W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
AXA didn't sell the policy to Miss W, it provided the insurance policy - but it has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. I'll refer to AXA throughout this decision.
background
Miss W bought the policy in July 2001 at the same time as she took out a store card. The 
card and insurance ended in or before August 2005.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint because I dont think AXA gave her clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because the policy wouldnt pay disability 
benefit in connection with medical conditions that the customer knew about when they 
bought the policy. I think its unlikely that AXA pointed this out to Miss W when she bought 
the policy.
I think this would have mattered to Miss W because she had medical conditions which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be covered.
I dont think Miss W would have bought the policy if shed had enough information about 
the policy. So, I think Miss W has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Ive noted what AXA has recently said about Miss Ws conditions, the way in which they can 
be managed and how they could affect her day to day life.
Im mindful that the PPI sale took place many years ago, and I dont think its reasonable 
to expect Miss W to provide any more evidence of the severity of her conditions and how 
they affected her at the point of sale. Miss Ws recollection has been consistent throughout 
her complaint, and I dont think its unreasonable for me to accept what she says.
Ive considered the nature of Miss Ws conditions and the fact that they are ongoing. Also, 
she has said she has had time off work relating to both. With that in mind, I dont think Miss 
W would have bought the PPI if shed had enough information about the policy.So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
fair compensation
AXA France IARD should put Miss W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA France IARD should find out how much Miss W would have owed when she 
closed her store card account if the policy hadnt been added.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA France IARD should then refund the difference between what Miss W owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA France IARD can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA France IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss 
W would have owed when she closed her account - from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when AXA France IARD works out what Miss W would have owed each month 
without PPI  Miss W paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA France IARD 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Miss W paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Miss W wouldve owed AXA France IARD 
something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
D. AXA France IARD should tell Miss W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA France IARD must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
 
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Miss W in line with the instructions above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman