DRN-1724300
The complaint
Miss J says the Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold her a protection policy alongside 
her mortgage lending. Miss J says she didnt want or need the policy and she was forced to 
take it out as a condition of her lending.
To resolve her complaint, Miss J wants the premiums refunded to her, with interest. 
What happened
Miss J met with an adviser at a CBS branch in April 2013. This was to arrange mortgage 
lending and a small amount of additional borrowing. Shed previously held a mortgage with 
CBS since 2007.
At the meeting, Miss J also agreed to take out a life and critical illness policy, with additional 
mortgage protection. The policy had the same sum assured (£29,308) and seven-year term 
as her new increased mortgage lending. It was set up on a decreasing term basis to reflect 
her capital repayment mortgage and had a monthly premium of £22.92.
The policy began in July 2013. Miss J cancelled the policy on 30 December 2019.
In August 2019, Miss J complained to CBS originally through a third party claims 
management company. She then continued the complaint herself, by completing a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) questionnaire explaining how the adviser had acted in a way that 
left her believing the policy was a mandatory condition of the lending.
CBS rejected the complaint in December 2019, saying it has never made protection policies 
a mandatory condition of mortgage lending. However, it did think the recommendation was a 
suitable one in the circumstances and as a responsible lender, it was right to consider how 
the mortgage could be repaid if a mortgage holder falls critically ill, passes away or is 
otherwise off from work with sickness.
Further, it said the documentation Miss J signed specifically said that the policy was optional. 
She was sent specific cancellation rights and chose not to use them.
Miss J referred her complaint to this service, and in doing so completed a further PPI 
questionnaire. In that questionnaire, she explained she had worked in her employment since 
2002 (and in a previous role since 1988) and would have received a significant redundancy 
payment if her employment ended for that reason.
She also noted how the adviser had said she had to take the policy, questioning what would 
happen to Miss J if she developed cancer. She said she felt coerced, because she needed 
the remortgage to go through.
Miss J said she had been in continued employment in the same industry for 32 years. She 
had no difficulty paying her mortgage and didnt want or need the cover provided by the 
policy, for which it wasnt made clear how much commission CBS would earn.Our investigator reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
that she couldnt see any evidence to suggest that the policy was a condition of the 
mortgage lending. Further, she felt the recommendation was fair because Miss J couldnt 
always guarantee the cover she had through her employment benefits.
Miss J disagreed. She asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. She said, in 
summary:
 
she works in a type of job for the National Health Service:
this job provides death in service benefits via her pension;
she therefore had no need for the cover provided by the policy;
she has had health screenings during the period since she bought the policy, and 
was unlikely to go on to develop a critical illness;
its unfair to assume she would have lost her job during the seven year policy term. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I can appreciate why Miss J took the view that her policy might have been mis-sold because 
it contains an element of mortgage payment protection. However, the policy was not a PPI 
policy. Miss Js policy, in return for continued payments of a monthly premium over the policy 
term, provided a lump sum payment (the sum assured) broadly matching that of her 
outstanding capital repayment mortgage should she have passed away. At that point, the 
policy would then cease. Similarly, the same sum assured would have been paid in the 
event she had become critically ill with a listed condition.
The policy also provided benefit to claim a monthly income equivalent to her mortgage 
repayment if she remained off sick for more than 13 months (because she had sickness 
provisions for the first year off from work).
I realise Miss J feels strongly that whilst she underwent the meeting in the branch, the 
adviser inferred that the additional mortgage lending would only be approved if she took out 
a policy she didnt want.
I have no reason to dispute Miss Js recollection, and I can see she has gone into some 
detail about what happened at the time. However, whilst this evidence is something I take 
into account, I must also weigh up CBSs version of events. It makes very contrasting 
arguments to Miss J.
I have also considered any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from 
the times of the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is 
most likely, on the balance of probabilities.
At the time of completing the policy application on 22 April 2013, Miss J completed a 
declaration form which said the recommended policy is a separate long term life insurance, 
provided by [the third party insurer]. It is an optional policy that is not linked to our decision to 
lend. I realise Miss J may have felt unduly pressured at the meeting, as is her account of what went on. So it could be the case that she signed this document and did not reflect on 
what was expressly noted about the policy being optional.
But, my view is that Miss J was given sufficient information to be clear that this policy was 
not mandatory, not just at the meeting but after the event. She would have had time to reflect 
on the sale outside of attending the branch. So, if she felt the proposal wasnt for her, she 
could have cancelled it.
I say that with particular reference to the fact CBS wrote to her on 3 May 2013 to confirm 
CBS was pleased to tell you that the Society has approved your further advance 
application. The mortgage lending was released to Miss J on 16 May 2013.
Miss J had to sign to confirm she had read the contents of the letter and that she wished to 
continue with the lending. That letter went on to set out the key facts of the mortgage lending 
and it expressly confirmed that you are not required to take out any insurance through 
Coventry Building Society. It also went on to explain that the only condition of insurance 
applicable to the lending (which could be taken out anywhere) was buildings insurance. 
The lending was approved more than two months before the protection policy came into 
force. This didnt happen until 23 July 2013. At that time, the insurer wrote to Miss J with a 
letter entitled YOUR RIGHT TO CHANGE YOUR MIND.
That letter went on to set out:
You have entered into the above contract.
You have a legal right to consider the matter again and change your mind if you wish. 
Before you decide whether you want to change your mind, ask yourself:
If you received personal advice on your policy, are you clear whether that 
advice was given by an independent adviser working on your behalf or 
someone representing the insurer? 
Have you received all the information you want in order to understand your 
policy?
Are you satisfied that the policy is suitable for your needs?
 
If the answer to any of these questions is NO, you should consult your adviser or 
insurer as quickly as possible.
The letter contained a cancellation form that Miss J could have used to stop the cover, if she 
wanted. By then, her mortgage lending was secure. I believe it was, or should have been 
clear to Miss J that the policy was not required to secure her additional borrowing. 
In any event, I do not believe the recommendation made to Miss J was unsuitable.
She has had the benefit of a policy that would have made a payment equivalent to her 
remaining mortgage lending (either as a lump sum or monthly payment) should she have 
become seriously ill, been off sick for more than a year or passed away. That Miss J is able 
to say now that she remained in good health is fortunate, but it is a statement made with 
hindsight.
Though Miss J in entitled to feel otherwise, insurances such as these are a prudent step to 
take to provide security for a significant liability such as a mortgage. Miss J was the sole 
applicant, and she didnt have any other policy that replicated the benefits this one had.I realise she has made points about the death benefits that come with working for the NHS. 
But, these are not generally considered a suitable means of ensuring a mortgage is 
protected in the event of death, since employment benefits can be involuntarily lost. I know 
Miss J felt that was unlikely, but it was not an impossibility. A person may lose his or her 
employment for another reason besides redundancy. And, life assurance only represented 
part of the policy which, as long as the premiums were maintained, guaranteed the benefits I 
have outlined above.
It follows that I dont believe this policy to be mis-sold, nor do I agree that the premiums 
should be returned to Miss J.
My final decision
Since I believe CBS acted fairly when recommending the protection policy to Miss J, I do not 
uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman