DRN-4277377
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about a claim he made on his Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) legal expenses insurance policy, which was declined.
All references to RSA include their claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his RSA legal expenses insurance policy for cover to deal with a claim 
made against him by a mortgage provider seeking possession of his property. RSA 
considered the claim and concluded it didnt fall within any of the sections of cover available 
under the policy. Mr S doesnt agree so referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
the policy terms seemed to exclude the claim Mr S was making and Mr S hadnt provided 
anything in the form of a legal opinion setting out why the advice he told RSA he received 
meant the claim should be covered by them. 
Mr S doesnt agree with the investigators view, so the matter has been passed to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
Before I explain my decision, Id like to acknowledge that Mr S requested a conversation with 
me to discuss his complaint. Thats not something I think is required in order to allow me to 
resolve it fairly. To do so would give Mr S the benefit of a one sided personal hearing to 
press his complaint without RSAs involvement. Nor would it give RSA the opportunity to 
respond. 
There are very rare occasions on which we might decide to conduct a hearing in person, but 
this isnt one of them. And Im satisfied that the information I have from both parties means I 
can decide Mr S complaint fairly, in accordance with our process.
I know Mr S is unhappy that the investigator referred to RSA rather than his home insurer or 
the claims handlers who acted for RSA. RSA is the underwriter of the legal expenses 
insurance policy, so they are responsible for the declinature of his claim. Thats why both the 
investigator and I have referred to them rather than the other parties hes dealt with. And as 
Ive set out above, my references to RSA include their claims handlers, who act for RSA. 
RSA is responsible for the decisions theyve made in relation to the declinature of cover.
The starting point is the dispute itself that Mr S wants cover for. Hes explained that he wants 
help dealing with a claim by a mortgage company for possession of his property. Based on 
another complaint Mr S has brought to this Service- which concluded with another 
Ombudsmans final decision in February of this year-  my understanding is the legal action 
taken against him was by his mortgage company to enforce a possession order. The 
mortgage company pursued this action as a result of proceedings brought against Mr S by 
his freeholder to forfeit his lease. The mortgage company was concerned about losing its 
security so sought possession of the property as a result.  
The policy terms applicable to Mr Ss present claim for legal expenses insurance cover 
exclude Property Protection claims for:
Someone legally taking your property from you, whether you are offered money or not, or 
restrictions or controls placed on your property by any government public or local authority
Adverse possession (meaning the occupation of any building or land either by someone 
trying to take possession from you or of which you are trying to take possession.
The enforcement of a covenant by or against you (meaning the enforcement of an 
agreement you have entered into in connection with land you own).
Whilst I havent seen the terms of Mr Ss mortgage, it does seem to be the case that his 
claim would fall into at least one of the three exclusions set out above, if not more. And he 
hasnt provided any information to RSA to suggest this is not correct. 
Mr S says he took advice from a Solicitor that supported his claim was covered by the policy. 
He says he wasnt able to obtain that advice in writing as he couldnt afford to. But I also 
havent seen any compelling arguments he might have been given in advice that would 
persuade me the claim hes making is covered. Hes referred to the claim being covered 
under the contracts section of cover. But that section applies to:
Your legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged 
agreement which you have entered into for the buying or hiring in of any goods or services, 
or the selling of any goods.
I dont consider the dispute that Mr S has described to fall within this definition. The dispute 
with his mortgage company is plainly not for goods or services- rather it is a loan secured on 
property. And the cover hes seeking is to defend against possession of his property- again 
not something thats covered by this definition. That section of the policy also requires the 
agreement thats the subject of the dispute to have been entered into during the insurance 
period. The possession order obtained against Mr S was in 2017 so the mortgage clearly 
predates this. And I think its more than likely the date of the mortgage itself wont fall within 
the period of cover.
If of course Mr S can show that this is a claim thats capable of cover with compelling 
arguments that relate specifically to the details of his claim and the policy terms, then Id 
expect RSA to reconsider the position. But as things stand, Ive seen nothing to suggest they 
did anything wrong in turning down cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman