DRN-3212687
The complaint
Mr C, as director of A, complains about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to decline As 
business interruption insurance claim for losses sustained following the COVID-19 
pandemic.
What happened
A held a policy underwritten by QIC. The policy offered a number of areas of cover, including 
for business interruption. Following the closure of As premises in March 2020, as a result of 
the government-imposed restrictions, Mr C made a claim under As policy.
Much of the correspondence on the claim was provided by the administrator of the policy. 
But as QIC is ultimately responsible for the decision on the claim, for simplicity Ive just 
referred to QIC.
QIC declined the claim. It said the core business interruption cover related to situations 
where Damage had caused an interruption, and this was not the case here. QIC said there 
were a number of relevant extensions to the core cover, but these didnt apply to the 
circumstances either. It said the cover provided by the Disease extension was limited to a list 
of specified diseases, which didnt include COVID-19. And that the Public Emergency 
section related to events that had occurred in the vicinity of As premises 
Mr C was unhappy with this and complained, focussing his arguments on the Public 
Emergency section. He has said that COVID-19 was present in the vicinity of As premises 
and so this clause should provide cover. QIC did not change its stance however, and 
referred to the findings of the High Court in The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case). 
As Mr C remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He also took into account the 
findings in the FCA test case and felt that QIC had declined the claim in line with the policy 
terms. 
Mr C remains unsatisfied with this. He has said that the Tier system introduced in England 
after the first lockdown shows that the restrictions were introduced as a result of dangers in 
the vicinity of the businesses that were asked to close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on A, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that A closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy A took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of As policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of As business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of As claim. And I think 
QIC acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting As claim under this area of cover.
As policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases. 
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge. As Ive said above, a range of 
policies are available. And some provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list of diseases 
updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide 
cover. But this is not the type of policy A has.
As the list of diseases in As policy does not include COVID-19, I do not consider it provides 
cover for As claim. 
It seems Mr C largely accepts the points above and he has focussed his argument on the 
Public Emergency extension to the business interruption section. 
This provides cover for business interruption caused by: 
[T]he actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders 
the use or access to the Premises
There are a number of exclusions to this section. But before it would be necessary to 
consider these, it must be shown that A has a valid claim under this cover. 
Just as QIC and the Investigator have, when considering this clause, I have taken into 
account the findings of the High Court in the FCA test case. 
It should be noted that the court considered a number of representative policies. As Ive said, 
different policies can cover different things. However, one of the policies considered by the 
High Court, the RSA 2.1 policy, was produced by the same draftsmen as As policy and the 
wording is just about identical. (The only difference is that As policy has missed out the T 
at the beginning of this clause, but I consider that to be an obvious typographical error and I 
dont think it has any bearing on what would be understood by the term.)So, effectively, the High Court considered the wording of As policy in relation to this clause. 
The findings of the High Court on this RSA 2.1 policy wording are found at paragraphs 462 
to 467 of the judgment. Of particular significance are the following extracts from paragraphs 
466 and 467:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of the 
insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government action 
and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due to an 
emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the insured 
premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also demonstrate 
that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the country as a whole, 
which led to the actions or advice of the government
Mr A has referred to the fact the FCA test case was, in part, appealed to the Supreme Court. 
But this part of the High Court judgment was not included in that appeal, and the findings 
above set out the current legal position. And I see no reason to depart from the High Courts 
findings at this time.
The restrictions imposed on A were those introduced across the whole country, as a result of 
the national pandemic. Given the comments of the High Court, this cannot be said to be due 
to an emergency in the vicinity of As premises. So, I do not consider QIC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when declining As claim under this term. 
I do note Mr Cs comments about the Tier system. But those later regulations were not the 
restrictions that led to the interruption of As business in March 2020. And so it is not 
necessary for me to consider, as part of this complaint, whether a claim made following 
those restrictions would be met by the terms of As policy.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means QIC should have met As claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr C, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman