DRN-3611560
The complaint
Mr P complains Tesco Underwriting Limited declined his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had a car insurance policy with Tesco and made a claim when his car was stolen. He
said it was taken while he visited at his mothers home. He obtained CCTV footage of the
theft. But after reviewing the footage, Tesco declined his claim because it thought it showed
the car was unlocked when it was stolen.
Mr P complained because he says he locked the car when he first arrived at his mothers
house. He says he went back to put items in the car and locked it again afterwards.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think Tesco reasonably
established that Mr P left his car unlocked. They said the CCTV footage didnt show the
events leading up to the theft and didnt think it proved Mr P hadnt locked his car. They also
said even in the event Mr P didnt lock the car, its automatic locking feature would have been
engaged after 40 seconds leaving the vehicle secure.
Tesco didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the claim would be
declined based on the exclusion of the car not being locked. It also said there were
inconsistences in the incident circumstances and the witness statement it received. As such,
it believes that the policy contract has been breached.
Our investigator still didnt think Tesco provided sufficient evidence to show the exclusion it
relied on to decline the claim applied. As Tesco didnt agree with the investigator, the
complaints been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 July 2022 in which I said: 
The terms of Mr Ps policy with Tesco says:
We will pay for loss of or damage to the car caused by fire, theft or attempted theft
Its not disputed that Mr Ps car was stolen in front of his mothers house. As per the terms,
this is an insured event covered by the policy. But it doesnt automatically follow that the
claim should be paid. That will depend on the other terms and conditions of the policy. Mr P
has shown his car was stolen, it is therefore Tescos responsibility to show that there is an
exclusion that entitled it to decline Mr Ps claim.
The policy doesnt cover loss or damage when no one is in the car, unless all its doors and
windows are closed and locked. Its not disputed that the evidence suggests the car wasnt
locked at the point the thief entered it, however Mr P says he locked his car. To be satisfied
Tesco declined the claim fairly, it needs to show that on balance, Mr P didnt lock his car and
his failure to do so was material to the loss. I dont think it has shown this, and Ill explain
why.
Mr P obtained CCTV footage from a neighbour. I must agree with Tesco, the footage he
provided appears to have been edited. Though the neighbour said they sent everything to Mr
P, I find this statement vague and I dont think its enough to say Mr P edited the footage
himself. Nevertheless, the footage thats available is short and doesnt show the events
leading up to the theft. So, I dont think its adequate evidence Mr P left the car open.
Tescos notes indicate Mr P was adamant he locked his car after briefly returning to it,
because he had gone to place expensive items inside of it, and I think thats a reasonable
explanation. Mr Ps car also had a self-locking feature which meant if he had left it unlocked
it would have automatically locked itself after 40 seconds. As such, I dont think Tesco has
done enough to show Mr P left the car unlocked.
Even if Mr P failed to secure his car, Im not persuaded the failure to do so was material to
the loss. Firstly, the police confirmed two other cars of the same make had been stolen
within hours of each other, in the same area and without use of the keys. The police officers
comments indicate that cars such as Mr Ps had been targeted by thieves in that area and
they were equipped with the tools they needed to steal them.
Mr Ps car is operated using a keyless system. There are tools available for purchase on the
market which would enable someone to open and start the car without using its original fob. I
think its fair to say someone with the intention of stealing such cars will most likely also have
the means to do so. Mr P provided Tesco with both sets of fobs for the car, so its clear the
thief had other means of starting his car to have driven away within seconds of entering it.
So, I think its likely he would also have had the necessary tools to unlock it.
In the CCTV footage the thief walks towards the car and doesnt hesitate before he opens
the door. He appears confident the car is open. On balance, I think its unlikely this was a
crime of opportunity whereby the thief happened to find Mr Ps car unlocked, and this led to
the decision to steal it. Im not persuaded Tesco has given me enough to safely conclude
that locking the car would have deterred them from taking it, or that the car being unlocked
was the reason it was stolen. Ultimately, I dont think Tescos decision to decline the claim
on the basis that Mr P didnt lock the car was fair or reasonable.
Breach of policy contract
Tesco thinks Mr P gave false information in relation to the claim. It states Mr P told the police
he was leaving his mothers home when the car was stolen, but told its agents he was sitting
by the window at the time. I find this a minor difference in what he said. It also states Mr P 
provided the police with the witnesss details and this is contrary to his statement to its
investigators. However, I can see Mr P sent it an earlier email stating that a witness had
come forward from a social media post. This is consistent with his statement and that of the
witness. So, Im not persuaded Tesco has shown Mr P deliberately gave false information.
While I agree there are inconsistences in the witness statements. I find the points Tesco
made to be circumstantial. I dont think its enough to say Mr Ps claim wasnt valid. I also
dont think it can reasonably hold Mr P responsible for what the witness said in his
statements.
Overall, I dont think Tesco has provided sufficient evidence to show Mr P intended to
commit fraud, and benefit from cover he wasnt entitled to when he made his claim. I
understand Tesco may have concerns over the reliability of the witness statement and the
locksmiths expert opinion Mr P provided. However, Mr P provided this additional information
to show the validity of his claim, after Tesco questioned it. Mr P wouldnt have been in this
position had Tesco made a fair and reasonable decision on his claim in the first instance.
Tesco also mentioned previous claims Mr P was linked to which it declined on grounds of
fraud, but I dont think that shows this claim was fraudulent.Putting things right
For the reasons Ive mentioned, Im not satisfied Tesco has sufficient evidence to support its
conclusions. As I said earlier, I dont find its decision to decline the claim was fair. So, I
intend to tell Tesco to settle Mr Ps claim in line with the other terms of the insurance policy.
It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on any settlement payment it makes directly to
Mr P from the date of the loss until the payment is made. It should also remove from any
internal or external databases any record that it declined the claim or any fraud markers
relating to it. Tesco should provide Mr P with a letter to explain this was done in error, which
he can present to his current insurers if he wishes to have his premium recalculated.
Mr P explained he has since purchased another car and has had to pay the finance for both
cars. He expressed the impact the situation has had on his health. I think Tescos decision to
decline the claim put Mr P under a great deal of stress. So, I require it to pay £750 in
compensation for the stress, upset and inconvenience its decision caused him.
Mr P mentioned he had also paid interest on the finance for the car. However, I think its
likely he would have entered into another finance agreement had his claim been settled on
time, therefore he would still have had to pay interest. Nevertheless the 8% simple interest
awarded covers the time Mr P was out of pocket because of Tescos decision and I think
thats fair.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision, but Tesco didnt. It said:
The CCTV footage has been tampered with.
In the clip 40 seconds do not elapse. The fact therefore remains that the only proof 
we have is that the car was open at the time of the theft- and of course cover would 
be excluded in this instance.
There are several discrepancies in the information provided to it and that provided to 
the police.
The witness is known to the customer and only came forward after the claim had 
been declined initially. 
Mr P called 20 times- in one day, on 5 occasions trying to pressurise claims handlers 
to deal with his claim. This behaviour, from its experience is typical of someone who 
has submitted a claim which is less than genuine and is desperate for it to be settled 
before any additional information can be provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Tesco nor Mr P provided information that I havent already considered in my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
Tesco says the only proof is that the car was open when it was taken. As its mentioned, the 
footage is 18 seconds and we cant be sure of what happen prior to the theft. But I dont 
think its enough to show the car was left open by Mr P. Furthermore, considering the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that whether the car was left open or not was material to 
the loss. So, I dont think its decision to decline the claim was fair. I think it was unnecessary for Mr P to have called Tesco repeatedly since my provisional 
decision was issued. I appreciate it will have been a source of frustration to Tescos claims 
handlers. Considering the length of time this has taken to resolve and the cost to Mr P, I can 
understand why he might be anxious to have things put right, and Im not persuaded its an 
indication of fraud.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to:
settle Mr Ps claim in line with the other terms of his policy.
If payment is made directly to Mr P, it should pay him 8% simple interest per annum 
on this amount from the date of the loss until payment is made*. 
Remove all records of the declined claim and any fraud markers in relation to this 
claim from any internal or external databases.
Provide Mr P with a letter stating the claim was declined in error.
It should also pay him £250 in compensation.
*If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman