DRN-4356107
The complaint
Mr S complains Astrenska Insurance Limiteds engineer caused avoidable damage to his 
bathroom floor when attending to an escape of water at his property.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr S made a claim on his home emergency policy  which is underwritten by 
Astrenska  following an escape of water at his tenanted property. Astrenska 
accepted the claim and sent an engineer. The engineer located the source of the 
leak and completed a repair. 
Mr S subsequently complained saying a bathroom tile  which wasnt in the vicinity of 
the repair  had been damaged by the engineer. He provided photographs which he 
considered showed the tile had been damaged whilst the engineer was in 
attendance. 
Mr S was also unhappy the engineer didnt confirm the repairs were complete until 
three days after the repair had taken place. He said this meant his tenants had 
unnecessarily been without access to the bathroom. 
In its final response Astrenska said it didnt think the contractor could be identified as 
having caused the damage. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said Astrenska should cover the cost of repairing the damaged tile as she was 
persuaded it was most likely caused by the engineer. She said Astrenska should pay 
£100 compensation because it had acted unfairly by refusing to cover the costs of 
replacing the tile, and because Mr S had to spend time sorting things out due to the 
miscommunication with the contractor. 
Mr S accepted the Investigators findings, but Astrenska disagreed. It said it wasnt 
reasonable to expect it to cover the cost of replacing the entire floor if a matching tile 
couldnt be sourced. And that it was unfair for it to cover a potentially large bill when 
the contractor possibly caused the damage unknowingly.
Mr S subsequently informed this Service that a matching floor tile couldnt be sourced 
as it was no longer available. And so, the Investigator explained to Astrenska that it 
would need to replace the entire floor. 
Astrenska remained unhappy and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute the damage complained about isnt connected to the trace, access 
and repair the engineer completed when visiting Mr S property to stop a leak. 
Rather, its about damage to a floor tile which wasnt proximate to the area of repair.
The issues to be decided are whether the damage to the floor tile was most likely 
caused by the engineer. And if it was, whether its reasonable to direct Astrenska to 
put right the damage. 
Turning to the first issue  Mr S has provided photographs which show the bathroom 
floor prior to the engineer attending and then after the repair had been carried out. 
Notably, the after photograph shows a floor tile exhibiting a crack which wasnt 
apparent in the before photographs.
This  coupled with Mr Ss testimony that his tenants werent using the bathroom 
following the engineers visit because they were under the impression it was out of 
use satisfies me the damage was more likely than not caused by the engineer.  
I appreciate Astrenska has said its unfair to hold it responsible when the damage 
was possibly caused unknowingly by the engineer. But whether the engineer was 
aware or not has no bearing on whether Astrenska is responsible for putting it right. 
Astrenska has said the policy exclusion  damage incurred in gaining necessary 
access or the cost of effecting permanent repairs once the emergency has been 
resolved means its not responsible for putting right the damaged floor tile. But I 
dont agree because the damage to the tile wasnt incurred whilst gaining access to 
the leak or repairing the damage. And this is supported by the engineers comment 
which state the damaged tile wasnt in the area where the access and repair 
occurred. And so, Im satisfied Astrenska cant fairly rely on this exclusion. 
Because a tile cant be sourced to match the existing floor, our Investigator said 
Astrenska needed to replace the entire floor. And I agree thats a fair outcome here 
as to do otherwise would leave Mr S with an unmatching floor. Whilst the tile cant be 
replaced with an exact match - as Mr S has said its no longer available - given the 
type of tile, I dont doubt Astrenska would be able to source a reasonable 
replacement tile of comparable quality. 
Neither party has provided estimates demonstrating the anticipated costs of replacing 
the entire floor and so, I have very little to go on in terms of likely costs. But I 
consider it reasonable for Astrenska to source the replacement tiles and have its own 
contractor fit them or provide Mr S with a cash settlement so he can source the tiles 
and appoint his own contractor to carry out the work it sees fit. 
Compensation
Astrenska accepted the Investigators finding that it should pay Mr S £100 
compensation. From what Ive seen, I consider this amount reasonably reflects the 
miscommunication Mr S experienced following the engineers visit. My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to:
Replace the entire bathroom floor. At its discretion it can choose to settle the 
matter by either:
A) sourcing comparable tiles of equivalent quality itself and appointing its 
own contractor to fit them, or
B) paying Mr S a cash settlement amount to cover the cost of him buying 
comparable tiles of equivalent quality and appointing his own contractor to 
complete the works. Mr S will need to provide Astrenska with two 
estimates/quotes detailing the costs involved in doing so  which it can 
then settle to the lower of the quotes.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation. Astrenska must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it 
pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman