DRN-3700844
The complaint
Mr B and Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr B and Mr C are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around April 2018, Mr B and Mr C were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call Z to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of Z, Mr B and Mr C decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In July 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr B and Mr Cs behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that Z had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr B and Mr C to enter into the contract with Z. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the system would provide enough income to at least cover the monthly finance 
agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt issue a final response within eight weeks. So, the CMC referred Mr B and 
Mr Cs complaint to this service. Shawbrook later responded to their complaint and explained 
that they didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr B and Mr C or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that Z had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr B and Mr C say they were told by Z they would receive a government grant of £50 
each month in addition to the feed-in-tariff and energy savings which was withdrawn 
by the government shortly after the system was installed; and
although the quotation was left with Mr B and Mr C, they had no concerns given they 
relied on the verbal representations and trusted what Z told them; and
the purchase makes no sense if the measure costs the buyer more than they will 
save.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr B and Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B and Mr C could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by Z in the 
same way they could have claimed against Z, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
Mr C and Z, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by Z as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider was most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B and Mr C say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, entitled Your Bespoke Quote. Ive 
considered these, along with Mr B and Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Z, via Shawbrook, have 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
Z would have discussed this in detail with Mr B and Mr C, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Ive also noted that the CMC have confirmed that Mr B and Mr C were sent a copy of the 
quote and were aware of the figures it contained.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr B and 
Mr Cs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr B and Mr C were told that the cost of the system was 
£8,950. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which 
sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,950. The monthly payment was £106.85. 
The total amount of credit is £8,850, after payment of a deposit of £100, and goes on to 
show that the total amount payable would be £12,922.Having considered all the evidence, including Mr B and Mr Cs recollections, Im satisfied 
that they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,950, it 
would cost Mr B and Mr C more than this as theyd decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr B and Mr C have said they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by Z as well as Mr B and Mr Cs recollections of their meeting with Zs 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
Page seven of the quote is entitled What will you earn & save per year?. It shows the 
estimated income Mr B and Mr C could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the 
system. This shows the expected FIT payments in each year over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think the table is clear that Mr B and Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT income in year 
one of £158.76 consisting of £86.03 generation and £62.73 export. This results in an 
average monthly income of £13.23. As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit 
agreement and the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of 
£106.85. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr B and Mr C were told the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The table also includes the electricity savings Mr B and Mr C could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity saving is £291.27 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Mr B and Mr C the combined income and savings in year one are 
shown as £657.52. 
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three table showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months, as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr B and Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £105.51. This is slightly less than in the credit 
agreement as Mr B and Mr C chose to take a two-month deferral of repayments at the start 
of the agreement. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return 
from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan 
repayment of £105.51, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B and Mr C could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that they 
werent told that the FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought 
about Mr B and Mrs Cs version of events. However,  as Ive found that the quote did form a 
central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont 
think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether Z told Mr B and Mr C that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr B and Mr C were told by Z that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
Page seven of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 25 years. This shows 
that by year 14 the overall benefits that Mr B and Mr C could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Z told Mr B and Mr C that the system would pay for 
itself by year 14, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
System performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between Z and Mr B and Mr C. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 2,494.32 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr B and Mr Cs FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,595.72 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by Z at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by Z, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Zs method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
Z used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by Z at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices were lower than the modelling predicted, 
the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system were correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by Z were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
Z to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B and Mr 
C couldve expected to receive from the system. So, while I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by Z at the time Mr B and Mr C entered into 
the contract.
Mr B and Mr C say that Z told them they would receive a government grant of £50 each 
month. But I havent found any reference to this within the quote or any other documentation 
provided by the CMC or Shawbrook. Im also conscious that this particular allegation didnt 
form part of the original complaint made to Shawbrook. So, Im unable to consider that 
aspect further.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by Z that induced Mr B and Mr C 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman