DRN-3659064
The complaint
Mr S says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit without carrying out 
proper affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr S approached Drafty for a running credit facility in May 2019. Mr S was given a
facility with a £1,000 credit limit  which didnt change while Mr S held the facility. 
Mr S was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr S was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter issued in May 2022 it explained the information it had 
gathered from Mr S before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment, Mr S was likely to be able to afford his credit facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ss complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr S was likely 
to be able to afford to service the facility. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially 
approved the facility.
Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility. Having reviewed, the way Mr S borrowed 
and repaid the facility, the adjudicator couldnt see any indicators of financial difficulties. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Ive summarised his comments 
below;
Mr Ss bank statements showed that he had a minus debit on his account. 
Mr S was living within his overdraft. 
Drafty didnt carry out due diligence before the facility was granted. 
 
Drafty didnt provide any further comments for consideration after the adjudicator issued her 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Ss 
Drafty facility. 
As explained, Mr S was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr S would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Ss repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Mr S were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account.
As explained, Mr S wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there
was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in the 
regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be 
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Mr S was granted a facility with Drafty with a £1,000 limit. In the credit agreement, a 
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Mr S. This 
hypothetical situation assumed that Mr S did the following:
1. drew down his maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided, 
2. he kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Mr S repaid what he owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Mr S done that, hed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,313.20 meaning a total monthly 
repayment of around £109.43.  
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Mr S could make monthly repayments of around £110 at an 
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ss application after hed provided details of his monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. It says the information it gathered
showed that Mr S would be able to comfortably make payments of around £110 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend. Having looked everything, I 
agree with this. Drafty has shown, that Mr S declared his monthly income was £1,800 and his declared 
monthly expenditure was £1,000. Based on its checks Drafty calculated that Mr S had 
around £1,000 of disposable income each month in which to service and repay the facility. 
I appreciate that Mr S says the amount declared for his mortgage / rent wasnt correct. He 
says Drafty has reported a figure of £525 but the actual cost was £875 per month. However, 
firstly, Drafty was entitled to rely on the figure given to it by Mr S so it wouldnt have thought 
the need to verify this. Secondly, even if I were to amend the information Mr S declared and 
increased his rent / mortgage cost Drafty wouldve still thought the facility was affordable for 
him. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. Although, it showed that Mr S had a 
default recorded, Draftys credit checks informed it that this had occurred almost six years 
ago. It also knew he had nine active credit accounts with outstanding balances of around 
£12,000. But this information alone, wouldnt have been enough, in my view to have 
prompted Drafty to carry out further checks because the default was recorded so long ago, it 
wouldnt have indicated Mr S was likely having current difficulties. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty asked Mr S, this 
was Mr Ss first facility and the other information  such as Mr Ss credit search results -  I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information Mr S provided. This 
means, I dont think Draftys checks needed to extend to obtaining copies of Mr Ss bank 
statement.
I also accept Mr Ss actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained  such as what Mr S says about 
living in his overdraft. But Drafty could only make its decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has supplied copies of his bank statements. But at this stage of the 
lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve 
extended to Drafty asking Mr S to evidence what he was declaring, or to asking him for his 
bank statements. So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably 
when it initially provided his with an open-ended credit facility in May 2019.
Monitoring the facility 
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Mr S. As Ive said above, when the facility was approved, Drafty was 
regulated by the FCA and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should 
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
But, its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some 
indicators, which when present in a consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties. 
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Ss repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.Our adjudicator thought there werent any signs of financial distress during the time he used 
the facility mainly because there was only one drawdown and the facility was fully repaid by 
the end of July 2019. 
Looking at the statement of account, Mr S drew down up to his limit on 18 May 2019 he then 
repaid the facility, in full by making three payments in June and July 2019. This was the only 
time that Mr S used the facility, so I dont think I can fairly conclude that the manner in which 
Mr S used the facility ought to have prompted Drafty to have carried out further checks or 
prevented him from drawing down on it further, because he had limited us of the facility.  
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Drafty to either have approved the facility or 
have stepped in earlier because there wasnt anything in the way that Mr S repaid or 
managed the facility that may have given Drafty cause for concern about the sustainability of 
the facility. Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman