DRN-1709392
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 in connection with a 
mortgage.
What happened
Ms D took out a PPI policy with BOS in 1998. She said she was told she would have a better 
chance of getting the mortgage if she bought the PPI. She says she didnt need PPI because 
she had good sick pay benefits and other investments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for Ms D, 
so Ill explain why.
Ms D complains she was not told the policy was optional, rather that she was told she would 
have a better chance of getting the mortgage if she took the policy. However, BOS told us 
Ms D had her mortgage in her own name from 1996, and the PPI was bought in 1998  this 
was two years after she had got the mortgage. So I think its unlikely she was told she would 
have a better chance of getting the mortgage if she bought the PPI. I have also seen a copy 
of Ms Ds PPI application form. This separate application form - which was completed either 
by or for Ms D - checked her eligibility to buy a policy, asked her what monthly benefit was 
required and told her how much it would cost each month. This form was also signed by Ms 
D. So in these circumstances, I think BOS did make it clear to Ms D that PPI was a separate 
and optional product which she bought 2 years after transferring the mortgage into her sole 
name.
Ms D and BOS both agree the sale was advised. This means the policy had to be suitable 
for her financial needs and she had to have been given enough information which was clear, 
fair and not misleading.
I think the policy was suitable for her because she was eligible to buy it; it was affordable at 
the time and she wasnt affected by the things the policy did not cover (the exclusions).
I then looked at her circumstances at the time to see if she might still have found a benefit in 
having PPI. Ms D would get sick pay, other employee benefits and she said she had share 
investments. The PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay she 
might receive; the policy could also pay out if either Ms D was made unemployed or had an accident. So I think it was still a potentially useful policy and was of benefit to her. And I dont 
think her sick pay and investments made the policy unsuitable for her.
I think the information on the PPI application about the cost and benefits was clear enough 
for Ms D to make a decision about it. And I also think that more information about the PPI 
cost and benefits is unlikely to have changed Ms Ds mind about taking it out. I say this 
because, having decided she chose the PPI because she wanted it, I don't think that any 
better information about the cost and benefits would have put her off from buying it.
I would also have expected BOS to tell Ms D about the exclusions in the policy. However, 
even if she had been given a full list of exclusions, I dont think it would have put her off 
buying PPI as she was not affected by the main exclusions. Ms D mentioned she had a 
second job which might make it more difficult for her to claim unemployment cover. But she 
told BOS that the second job started in late 1998; she told us she didnt need the money 
from the second job, it wasnt her main income because she was helping a friend and that it 
gave her some personal freedom. So it doesnt look like she had the second job at the time 
of the PPI sale in April 1998 or that she was reliant on the income or needed to protect it. In 
those circumstances, I dont think she would have been put off from buying PPI. 
Overall, I think the evidence suggests BOS did make it clear PPI was optional, it was most 
likely suitable for her needs and more information about it wouldnt have changed her mind 
about taking it out. So Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman