DRN-3694923
The complaint
Miss F complained about the service provided by Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(Interactive). Miss F said she instructed Interactive to carry out a transfer of a fund held 
by a third party (Party A) to it. Interactive said it couldnt do this as it did not support the 
class of share that she held with this fund, and it wasnt prepared to convert it. Miss F 
was unhappy about this and said that she had incurred a cost. She would like 
compensation for this. 
Miss F is represented in this complaint, and they have made representations on her 
behalf, but to keep things simple I have referred to Miss F throughout. 
What happened
Miss F gave Interactive an instruction to transfer a fund out of a stocks and shares ISA 
she held with a third party (Party A) to it on 10 November 2021. A day later, Interactive 
requested a valuation of assets and received this back from Party A on 17 November 
2021. A representative from Interactive sent a message to Miss F on the same day it 
received the valuation to say it was unable to support the fund on its platform and this 
was due to the class of shares that Miss F held. Interactive then gave options as to what 
she could do. It said she could either instruct Party A to carry out a conversion and then 
transfer the holding or it could pass on a sale instruction on her behalf. 
Miss F asked Interactive if it could arrange for the shares to be converted if Party A were 
to transfer the holding to it. Interactive said it could not carry out a conversion of Miss 
Fs shares and said this was a commercial decision that it had made. It reiterated the 
options that it felt Miss F had. 
Miss F then went ahead and transferred her holding from Party A to a different platform 
provider (Party B), who was able to convert the shares. She then instructed Party B to 
convert them and then once this was done transferred the holding from it to Interactive. 
Miss F said that Interactives unwillingness to convert the shares has incurred her a cost 
and it should pay her compensation for this.
Miss F did not agree with Interactives stance to not convert the shares and felt it 
couldve done more. She said it had not treated her fairly. Miss F made a complaint to 
our service. An investigator looked into Miss Fs concerns and didnt think Interactive 
needed to take any action. She said she looked through the documentation provided by 
the parties and didnt think Interactive had done anything wrong. She concluded it 
notified Miss F of its position in good time and provided alternative options. She also 
said our service cant interfere with commercial decisions. 
Miss F responded and said the investigator had given too much weight to the 
commercial decision that Interactive had made, and not enough to it treating her fairly. 
She said she had not seen any evidence that would suggest Interactive was unable to 
facilitate the transfer as she had requested. She said it seemed more likely that it was 
unwilling. Miss F asked for an ombudsmans review and so her complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Miss Fs complaint, and will explain why.
Miss F instructed Interactive to transfer a fund from an ISA she held with Party A on 10 
November 2021. Interactive requested a valuation from Party A a day after receiving the 
instruction from Miss F and then contacted her about not being able to support the fund, 
on the same day it received the valuation back. 
HMRC issued guidance states that it should take an ISA provider no longer than 30 
working days to complete a transfer for anything other than cash. I can see that 
Interactive was carrying out Miss Fs instruction in good time, but then because it sent a 
message to say it did not support the fund so couldnt transfer it over, the transfer had, for 
all intents and purposes, been cancelled by it. The options it had provided would lead to 
potentially a new transfer taking place, either be it a new classification of the shares, or by 
way of a cash transfer as it had suggested. 
The only other way the transfer could have continued within the timeframe suggested in 
the guidance, would have been for Interactive to accept the transfer of the unsupported 
shares and then convert them itself. Interactive said it wouldnt convert the shares. It told 
Miss F that this was a commercial decision and that it had decided that it didnt want to do 
this. 
I have looked through the terms and conditions for Interactives ISA and can see that it 
has made it clear that it is not obliged to accept the transfer of a plan to it and that it 
reserves the right to exclude any investments at its discretion. After reading this I can see 
that Interactive has been clear both in its communications with Miss F and within the 
terms of its ISA what its position was. 
Miss F has said Interactive has obligations to treat Miss F fairly and that this should be a 
consideration and not just that it is a commercial decision that it has taken. She has also 
said shes seen nothing to suggest Interactive couldnt carry out the conversion, rather it 
was something Interactive were unwilling to do.
I have given what Miss F has said here careful thought and I acknowledge the comments 
she has made. But I do think Interactive had a choice in deciding what services it 
provided and what it didnt want to. And it has been clear about this all along. Miss F also 
had a choice as to whether to accept those terms or use the services of another provider 
that may have been able to hold her fund or convert them into the class she required or 
wanted. 
Miss F has said she thinks Interactive should pay for the costs that she incurred for 
having to transfer her holding with Party A to Party B and then post conversion, transfer 
her holding from Party B to Interactive. For the reasons I have already given, I dont think 
I can hold Interactive responsible for Miss Fs actions here. But in any case, I can see that 
Party B did not charge Miss F for transferring her holding to it or for converting the shares. From what I can see, Miss F managed to find a way to solve the problem without incurring 
a financial cost.  
In summary, I can see Interactive initially tried to carry out the transfer in good time, then 
clearly communicated why it couldnt and provided alternative options. Miss F then still 
went forward and chose to use the services provided by Interactive on the terms that it 
had provided to her. And with this all being the case, I cant find any failings with the way 
it dealt with Miss Fs instruction. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Interactive did anything wrong on this occasion.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss F, but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman