The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly refused to pay a claim under her pet insurance policy. 
Both Mr and Mrs C have communicated with Red Sands and our service in this matter but so 
Mrs C alone, as the policy holder, is referred to throughout this decision for ease.
References to Red Sands includes their agents.
What happened
Mrs C took out her policy with Red Sands in early August 2018. 
In late February, Mrs C took her dog, H, to the vet to look at a lump on his skin. A few days 
later, the vet diagnosed that H had a mast cell tumour. Treatment followed and Mrs C made 
a claim to Red Sands.
Red Sands reviewed the notes made by the vet at the time of the first appointment, in late 
February 2019, which recorded the following:
   small hard mass about 3mm diam, been there 1 year
So Red Sands explained to Mrs C that, because the lump had been there before the policy 
was taken out, it wouldnt pay her claim. Red Sands also applied a policy exclusion for 
claims related to skin tumours and resulting conditions backdated to the policys start date.
When contacting Red Sands in May 2019, Mrs C explained the lump only came to their 
attention 2 to 3 months before, after first thinking it was an insect bite. And the only 
discussion about 12 months was when they said theyd changed their pet insurance provider 
over the last 12 months. Theyre offended it has been suggested they knew about Hs 
condition in advance of taking out the policy, especially when they had insurance before 
moving to Red Sands and had appointments in February 2018 and August 2018 where no 
lumps were recorded on the notes.
Red Sands explained that they accepted the vets notes as a true and accurate record of 
what had been said at the time of the consultation. And, as the vet hadnt confirmed that the 
statement in the notes been there 1 year was wrong, this didnt change its mind.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had done 
anything wrong in declining this claim. Mrs C disagreed  she explained there's been an 
injustice in not having the claim honoured. And, although they didnt have any further 
information, theyd try talking to their vet again to see if they will change their statement.
DRN-1471568This complaint was passed to me to decide. Initially, I asked the investigator to explain to 
both parties that whilst I agreed the investigators view about the main part of this complaint  
that the claim was declined reasonably and fairly and in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions  I intended to uphold part of the complaint. This was because I didnt agree 
that Red Sands had reasonably added the retrospective exclusion to the policy.
Red Sands responded to say the sales process for the policy clearly identified to Mrs C that 
it wouldve cover any illness, symptoms or conditions that are pre-existing at the time the 
policy was taken out. And that it reserved the right to apply an exclusion in respect of any 
illnesses, symptoms and conditions that it subsequently learns are pre-existing. The 
exclusion had been fairly applied to the policy retrospectively and in line with policy terms. 
Mrs C reiterated that her main complaint point was about the declined claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mrs C that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. And I think he set out the position clearly about why he didnt recommend that the main 
part of Mrs Cs complaint was upheld. But, as explained above, I do uphold part of this 
complaint which relates to the Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions 
exclusion. Ill explain why below.
Declined claim
Mrs Cs policy is for the lifetime of her dog with an annual condition limit of £1,000 per year. 
Red Sands policy, in common with most pet insurance policies, doesnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. The definition of a pre-existing condition in the policy is set out below. 
Pre-existing condition means: 
 Any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date; or 
 Any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the 
first 14 days of the commencement date. 
The main issue in this complaint is whether H had a lump at the time the policy was taken 
out in August 2018 and, if so, whether that is a pre-existing condition.
I understand what both parties say about this issue. And I note the vet says they wont 
change their notes. Having considered everything, I feel the most persuasive evidence is 
that from the vet  being notes made at the time of the consultation  and so Ive placed 
more weight on these. Taking this into account, on balance, I think its more likely that the 
vet recorded that the lump had been there 1 year because this is what she understood to be the position. As a result of this, I think its more likely that the lump was existing when the 
policy was taken out 6 months before. 
The definition of a pre-existing condition includes the word sign. And I consider this lump 
did turn out to be sign indicating a pre-existing condition under the definition. 
It follows that I dont think Red Sands acted unfairly or unreasonably when it turned Mrs Cs 
claim down due to a pre-existing condition. 
Growths, Tumours and Cancers exclusion 
When Mrs C bought the policy, Red Sands asked her to tick a box to say shed read the 
statement of assumptions. This includes the right for Red Sands to apply an exclusion in 
respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-existing at the start of the 
policy (or within the first 14 days). Red Sands has included an exclusion for all claims with 
respect to Growths, Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions backdated to the policy 
start date in August 2018. 
But, for a lifetime policy, we dont generally consider it fair for an insurer to apply an 
exclusion after the policy has been taken out, unless a consumer has failed to answer a 
clear question with reasonable care (and, if they had done so, that the insurer would have 
set up the policy on different terms). In this case, Ive not seen evidence to show Mrs C was 
asked a clear question about Hs health or that she failed to answer such a question with 
reasonable care when she took out the policy. Because of this, it's my decision that Red 
Sands cant apply a retrospective exclusion to the policy as it has done. So I require Red 
Sands to remove the retrospective policy exclusion it added as a result of this claim. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Red Sands is still entitled to rely on the pre-existing medical 
condition exclusion in the policy for turning down the claim. But its not entitled to rely on the 
retrospective policy exclusion that it added after Mrs C had made this claim.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold this complaint. I think Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited fairly turned down Mrs Cs claim for Hs mast cell tumour. But I 
require Red Sands to remove the specific policy exclusion it applied retrospectively. And 
Red Sands isnt entitled to reapply the exclusion at renewal of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited declining her claim in this matter. But I do require Red Sands to 
remove the specific policy exclusion it applied retrospectively which relates to Growths, 
Tumours and Cancers and Resulting Conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman