DRN-4408376
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Capital One in July 2018. The credit card account was 
opened with a credit limit of £750 which was increased to £1,000 in January 2019.
In March 2019 Mr B opened another credit card account with Capital One with a credit limit 
of £300. The two cards were later consolidated, providing a single account with a credit limit 
of £1,300.
Mr B says that Capital One shouldnt have provided him with the credit. He says it didnt take 
account of his financial situation at the time and that Capital One didnt check it was 
affordable for him. He says he has experienced financial difficulties as a result of the 
borrowing. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint. They thought Capital One shouldnt have 
increased Mr Bs credit limit beyond £750. Capital One didnt agree, so it asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
When I reviewed Mr Bs case I came to a different outcome to our adjudicator. I wrote to 
both parties to explain this and invited each party to provide any more information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision.
Neither party responded, so I see no reason to alter my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Capital One acted unfairly and lent to Mr B irresponsibly. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mr Bs borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Capital One has shown that it gathered information about Mr Bs financial situation before it 
gave Mr B the first credit card. It also completed some credit checks, although the 
information it provided about the results of those checks is very limited. I can see that Capital 
One noted that Mr B had an outstanding hire purchase agreement for which he was paying 
£153 a month and he had a small unsecured loan hed taken out in May 2018  just before 
he applied for the first account. That unsecured loan had repayments of £20 a month.
I note that there was a default on Mr Bs credit history of £75. From other information I can 
see that this was in relation to another Capital One credit card account which he had 
recently settled and closed and where he had made no payments towards the outstanding 
amount for a total of six months out of the preceding nine months. That information alone 
means I think Capital One ought to have made further checks before it lent to Mr B. I think it 
ought to have least asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. 
While I cant know for certain what Mr B would have told Capital One had it asked about this, 
I think its reasonable to think his bank statements from the time ought to provide a good 
indication of his circumstances. 
Our adjudicator noted a committed expenditure of around £303 a month, with an income of 
around £1,245 a month. On this basis, our adjudicator considered that if Mr B made 
sustainable repayments towards his credit card, even if he used all of the available credit, 
that he would have been comfortably able to meet the repayments. 
Our adjudicator considered that similar checks ought to have been completed at the point of 
the increase in January 2019. I agree. In the month before Capital One increased Mr Bs 
limit, he had exceeded his credit limit and missed a repayment. Given that at this point 
Capital One still didnt have reliable information about his income and expenditure I think 
Capital One ought to have sought that information. In our adjudicators assessment they 
calculated that Mr B was spending more on his committed expenditure than he had received 
each month in income. 
I found Mr Bs bank statements difficult to read, so I asked for new copies. Having reviewed 
those copies I have not been able to identify such a high level of committed expenditure (that 
is, expenses like rent, mortgage, utility bills, food, transport and council tax). The figures 
relied on for the assessment of Mr Bs circumstances at the point of account opening are 
roughly the same. However, the figures for the two months leading up to Mr Bs first credit 
limit increase to £1,000 and the two months leading up to the additional £300 of credit which 
was provided in March 2019 when he took out a second card, do not appear to reflect those 
initially assessed by our adjudicator. 
The bank statements show that Mr B had at least £900 disposable income each month, 
meaning that on the basis of the information I have, I think both of the credit limit increases 
(in January and March 2019) were likely to be affordable and he would have been able to 
make repayments on a sustainable basis even if he utilised all of the credit.
So, if Capital One had made the checks on Mr Bs income and expenditure that I think it 
ought to have done, I dont think it would have made a different decision about providing Mr 
B with the credit because I think those checks would have shown it was affordable for him. 
That means I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything Capital One did wrong.
I can see from the bank statements that there are transfers to another personal bank 
account.  I can also see from Mr Bs credit file that he had at least one other current account 
during the period he held the Capital One card. It may be that Mr Bs essential expenditure 
was paid from that account, but Mr B hasnt provided these, so I cant be sure. On the information I have I am not satisfied that Capital One acted unfairly in lending to Mr B 
or increasing his credit limit and so I dont think Mr B lost out as a result of anything Capital 
One did wrong. 
My final decision
I dont think Capital One (Europe) plc acted unfairly when it lent to Mr B. I dont think Mr B 
lost out as a result of anything Capital One (Europe) plc did wrong. It follows that Capital 
One (Europe) plc doesnt have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman