DRN-3433885
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed her after she transferred 
money to an investment company that turned out to be a scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. However, in summary, Ms R has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked into 
sending just over £15,000 to an investment company that appeared to be legitimate. 
However, unbeknown to Ms R, she was actually dealing with scammers. 
In total, Ms R made four payments between 29 May 2020 and 19 June 2020  three £5,000 
payments and one £2 payment. Ms R made all of the transfers without any interaction with 
HSBC staff.
Ms R also made a further £10,000 payment. But this payment was sent on behalf of a friend 
and the funds sent werent Ms Rs. So this payment wont form part of this complaint. 
Ms R had been introduced to the scam company, who I will refer to as Company M, in 
May 2020 by her friend who said they had been successfully investing with them for a 
couple of months. Ms R said she did some research on the company and was satisfied that 
were registered with some international regulators. Ms R was promised high rates of return 
and bonus payments. She was also told that she would have to invest via a third-party 
company who I will refer to as Company C. Company C is a legitimate crypto-currency 
exchange service and so when Ms R looked into Company C, she found them to be 
genuine too. 
Ms R now feels that HSBC shouldve identified the payments she was making as 
suspicious. She says HSBC shouldve contacted her to discuss the payments before it 
agreed to process them on her behalf. Ms R believes that had HSBC done so, the scam 
wouldve come to light, and she wouldnt have proceeded to make the transfers.
HSBC didnt agree that it could have done anything more than it already had to protect Ms 
R. It said that as the payments Ms R had made had been paid to a genuine cryptocurrency 
exchange service and some of her funds had been returned to her, this was most likely a 
civil dispute and it directed Ms R to company C to investigate the matter further. Unhappy 
with HSBCs response, Ms R brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the transactions were so 
unusual and out of character when compared with Ms Rs usual account activity that 
HSBC shouldve questioned Ms R about the payments before they allowed them to leave 
her account. 
Ms R didnt agree with the investigators findings. She felt that the transactions shouldve 
stood out to HSBC and reiterated that she should have been contacted prior to them being 
processed. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R has put forward numerous submissions about her complaint, which Id like to assure 
her I have read in their entirety. I have read everything and considered everything she has 
sent in. However, I dont intend to respond in similar detail. Ive focussed on what I consider 
to be the key points and the crux of the complaint. If I dont mention a particular point, a 
piece of evidence, a regulation or code of practice specifically, it isnt because I havent seen 
it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I dont feel the need to reference it in order to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
I also want to say that Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Ms R. I have 
significant sympathy for the situation she has found himself in. But having thought very 
carefully about what shes told us happened at the time and HSBCs actions, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold HSBC liable for her loss. Ill explain why in 
more detail below.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Ms R when she transferred around £15,000 to a fraudster and when she reported the 
fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Its not in dispute that Ms R authorised the payments herself. She logged into her internet 
banking and used her security details in order to request the payments be made to the cryptocurrency exchange service that she specified. And whilst we now know that the 
ultimate destination account was not legitimate, the funds were regardless paid to the 
account details Ms R had entered and therefore the transactions were requested and 
authorised by her. Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow her instructions. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider that as a 
matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfers Ms R made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with her usual account activity. Ive reviewed Ms 
Rs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded 
they were. Ms R had made a number of similar transactions. For example, in April and May 
2020, Ms R made 5 x £5,000 payments alongside one payment of £8,000. And so, it 
wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say that the transactions here, which ranged from 
£2.00 to £5,000, were unusual for her account. 
The payments were made online and with no interaction with HSBC staff and so I cant 
say that HSBC missed an opportunity to discuss the transactions with her. At the time, 
there was no way for HSBC to have known that Ms R was making payments to a scam 
company. The payments were of a similar value to payments shed made in the 
previous months which indicated that Ms R had a propensity to make payments in the 
low thousands and that this was characteristic of how she managed her account. And 
so, Im not persuaded that any of these transactions wouldve looked particularly 
unusual to HSBC. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we know the payments 
were being made as the result of a scam. Im not persuaded that was anything 
inherently suspicious about them at the time. 
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that HSBC shouldve 
identified the payments Ms R made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC couldve done more to help Ms R once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. The payments had been made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange service in Ms Rs own name and had been moved on. 
Finally, I want to stress here that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Ms R has 
found herself in. But at the same time, I dont think her loss was caused by any specific 
failing on behalf of HSBC. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the 
fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman