DRN-3099255
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited delayed updating claim 
details on his motor insurance policy and overcharged him as a result.
Mr Bs policy is branded and administered by a separate company to Skyfire. That company 
administers the policy on Skyfires behalf. So Skyfire, as the policy underwriter, remains 
responsible for those actions. And, as Mr Bs complaint concerns a delay in handling a claim 
and the impact on him because of that, his complaint is Skyfires responsibility. Thats the 
case even though it was the policy administrator which took those actions and replied to the 
complaint on Skyfires behalf. So, where I refer to the actions of Skyfire below, that includes 
those taken by the policy administrator.
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident. He didn't claim on his own policy but the other driver (the 
third party) blamed him for the accident and their insurer tried to claim from Mr Bs policy. 
Skyfire said it would defend the claim and eventually the third party dropped it.
In the meantime Mr Bs policy had renewed. His premium was affected by the open claim 
against him. After the claim closed, Skyfire adjusted Mr Bs premium. But it didn't backdate 
that and didn't pay him a refund of overpaid premium for some months until he complained. 
Skyfire acknowledged it had delayed in sorting things out. It apologised and paid Mr B £200 
compensation.
Mr B didn't think that went far enough and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Skyfire needed to do anything else. Mr B didn't 
agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Skyfire to take any further action.
At the time Mr Bs policy renewed the third partys claim remained open and unsettled. And, 
until a claim is closed down, its usual for insurers to treat open claims as if they are fault 
claims. So, when Mr Bs policy renewed, Skyfire treated the open claim as if it was a fault 
claim. That affected both the risk Skyfire thought he posed as a policyholder and his no 
claims discount (NCD) entitlement, which caused his premium to rise by around £198. 
After Skyfire closed the claim down, noting it wasn't Mr Bs fault, it reinstated Mr Bs NCD. 
That caused his direct debit premium instalments to reduce. But Skyfire didn't backdate the 
reduced premium to the date when his policy renewed. Thats something it should have 
done immediately. I've seen that Mr B then phoned Skyfire on numerous occasions trying to 
sort this out. During that process Skyfire often promised him calls back which it didn't then 
honour. Mr Bs also said that Skyfire spoke with him unprofessionally. I've listened to some 
of Mr Bs calls with Skyfire and his frustration with it is clear. And, while I havent listened to 
every call, I accept his evidence about the manner in which Skyfire dealt with him, so I'm 
satisfied I don't need to listen to each and every call to understand the impact this had on 
him.
It was around four months after Skyfire closed the claim down, and only after Mr B 
complained, that Skyfire identified its mistakes. At that point it reduced his premium by the 
£198 increase the open claim had cause. And it reimbursed the amounts overpaid. It also 
paid Mr B £200 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience arising from its 
mistakes. 
Mr B doesn't think that sum goes anything like far enough. He thinks compensation in the 
region of £1,000 to £1,500 is warranted. But I don't think that's a reasonable sum. When 
thinking about whether to award compensation and if so how much, Ill look at the impact a 
business errors have had on the consumer. Ill also think about other compensation awards 
we make in cases of similar seriousness. I'm aware that Skyfire caused Mr B frustration and 
I can see he made numerous calls. But I think that the compensation Skyfire has already 
paid of £200 is reasonable in the circumstances. I would usually only think an award in the 
range Mr B has desribed is warranted where a business mistakes have caused the 
consumer substantial distress or disruption to their daily lives over a sustained period. I don't 
think that's the case here.
Further I'm aware that Mr B sometimes took time away from work to call Skyfire. But 
I wouldn't think it was fair to compensate him for his time on a rate he may have been paid 
at. That's because he was complaining in his own personal capacity as a consumer, he 
wasn't acting in a professional sense. Further, Mr Bs own time isn't worth any more than any 
other consumers, regardless of how much he might earn. So, while I've thought about the 
impact Skyfires mistakes have had on him, I wouldn't look to award compensation on the 
basis of lost earnings that an hourly rate. And I factored in his distress and inconvenience 
when deciding that £200 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman