DRN-4288911
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) acted irresponsibly by providing her 
with an overdraft and increasing her limit to something she couldnt afford. She says the fees 
and charges applied to her account made her financial position worse. 
What happened
Miss S held an account with Monzo and was approved for an overdraft with a limit of £550. 
This was steadily increased from December 2021 until it reached its highest limit of £2,000 in 
July 2022.  
Miss S complained to Monzo that it acted irresponsibly by approving an overdraft facility for 
her. Monzo didnt uphold the complaint. And as Miss S was dis-satisfied she referred the 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ss complaint and thought that the initial overdraft 
lending was reasonable based on the information Monzo had, but they felt that Monzo ought 
to have known Miss S was in financial difficulty by July 2022 as Miss S hadnt been able to 
see or maintain a credit balance on her account and her overdraft limit was now more than 
her monthly income. They thought Monzo had acted unfairly when it continued to charge 
overdraft fees from July 2022.
Monzo disagreed. It says that Miss Ss affordability calculation shows that she had a balance 
of £281 a month she could put towards her overdraft and that the repayment of the overdraft 
would be more than possible within a year. So the complaint was progressed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 July 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why 
I was proposing to uphold Miss Ss complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision and neither Monzo or Miss S have 
added any new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Monzo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S would 
be able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Miss Ss overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the 
checks Monzo carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss S would be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Miss S applied and was approved for an overdraft with an initial limit of £550 in 2021 
increasing to £2,000 in July 2022. It is not clear from the information provided when Miss S 
was first approved for her overdraft, but Monzo says when assessing overdraft applications it 
checks for both credit risk and affordability. This includes carrying out credit checks with 
external agencies as well as taking into account information Miss S provided about her 
income and expenditure and how she had managed her account with it. And based on this 
information Monzo was satisfied the overdraft facility she requested was affordable for her.
I accept that Miss Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to Monzo at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Monzo this. But Monzo was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Miss Ss statements leading up to the initial granting of the overdraft of 
£550 I can see that Miss S was managing her account with Monzo and given the relatively 
modest overdraft limit requested I think Monzos checks went far enough and I dont think 
Monzo acted unfairly in agreeing the overdraft facility for Miss S. 
But I think it was evident that by April 2022 Miss S was in financial difficulty and was 
struggling to pay off her overdraft. Miss Ss statements showed that she hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time and overall her overdraft was just 
increasing rather than reducing. And by June/July 2022 Miss S had gone over her limit. 
Indeed, Monzos internal notes record that Miss Ss average account balance started 
dropping significantly at the start of 2022.
Overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
Miss Ss statements show she was clearly struggling to manage her overdraft limit with 
Monzo, there was little money coming in and when it did come in it went straight out again to 
service other accounts or pay for bills and day to day living. 
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, think that Monzo acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 1 April 2022. By this point, it 
ought to have been clear that Miss S was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed 
within a reasonable period of time. Despite Miss Ss statements showing her struggling to 
pay off her overdraft or reduce it, Monzo continued to increase her limit and charge for it 
making her financial situation worse. 
So I think that Miss Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Monzo to have realised that 
Miss S wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Monzo didnt react to Miss Ss overdraft usage early enough I think it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably.
Miss S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I currently think 
that Monzo didnt treat Miss S fairly and she lost out because of what Monzo did wrong.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ss complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ss overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2022 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Miss S to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ss 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 2022.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd and 
direct it pay the fair compensation as outlined above..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman