DRN-4263702
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unreasonably closed his credit card 
account, which meant he missed out on available rewards. Hed like to be compensated for 
this.
What happened
Mr R had a credit card with Creation, that offered up various rewards based on spending, 
including points towards a hotel reward scheme and vouchers for a free nights stay. Mr R 
made regular use of the card.
In September 2021 Creation wrote to Mr R to say theyd be closing his account in 
December 2021. They offered up no explanation for this. They also stopped crediting his 
reward account with any points and declined to send him a voucher for a free nights stay. 
Mr R complained about this, but Creation didnt agree theyd done anything wrong.
Dissatisfied with this Mr R referred his complaint to our service. Before one of our 
investigators could look at what happened Creation offered to credit his reward account with 
the accrued points, send him a free nights stay voucher, and also pay him a pro rata refund 
of the yearly account fee.
Our investigator thought this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. They said Creation 
acted within the account terms when closing the account. But they felt what Creation had 
offered to do in regards to the reward points was fair. Mr R disagreed, feeling this didnt go 
far enough, and that compensation was due.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creations terms allowed them to close Mr Rs account, for any reasonable reason, so long 
as they provided the required notice of 60 days. In this case I can see that the notice was 
sent correctly.
Creation arent under any obligation to explain their reasons for closing the account to Mr R 
 and havent done so here. Ive reviewed the evidence from Creation, and Im satisfied that 
the reason for the closure isnt unreasonable or irrational. I can see Mr R made regular use 
of his card, so I can see why hed be disappointed with the closure. But I cant say Creation 
have treated him unfairly when deciding to close his account.
Reward points, voucher and annual fee
The terms of the account also say the features of the account  such as the reward points  
can be withdrawn at any time. But Creation have now agreed to honour these benefits, 
which is fair.
Creation have said theyve credited the accrued points to Mr Rs reward account, and sent 
the voucher. I think this is appropriate, and puts Mr R back in the position he would have 
been in.
Mr R was charged the annual account fee in April 2032, but only had use of the card up to 
December 2021. So, it is appropriate for Creation to provide a pro rata refund for the unused 
portion of this fee. Theyve offered £35.53 to cover this, which Im satisfied is correct, and its 
fair that Mr R gets this back.
Further compensation
Mr R has suggested further compensation, which Ive considered carefully. As I mentioned 
the key issue is the closure of the account, which was reasonable. So, I wouldnt look to 
award compensation for inconvenience that flows from this. 
Creation could have issued the reward points and voucher earlier than they did, but Ive 
seen nothing to show this had any further impact on Mr R. Im also not minded that the 
service provided by Creation was poor enough that compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and in addition to the crediting of the reward 
points and the free nights voucher Creation Financial Services Limited must refund Mr R the 
unused portion of the account fee - £35.53.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman