DRN-4307595
The complaint
Mr V complains British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) hasnt met its obligations under his 
Homecare home emergency policy.
What happened
BG is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents for which BG has accepted responsibility. Any reference to BG includes 
the actions of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr V is a landlord who owns a number of properties which are rented out to tenants. 
He has a BG Homecare home emergency policy which provides cover for a number 
of risks in the properties including plumbing and drains cover, gas appliance checks 
and landlord safety checks. 
He was unhappy with the service he received from BG under this policy and 
complained about a number of issues which BG responded to in a final response 
letter. 
He was unhappy BG hadnt identified a problem with the cooker hood in one of the 
properties sooner and it had cost him £190 to have the problem fixed by a private 
contractor. BG subsequently let him know that while the hood didnt fully meet the 
install standards of the manufacturer, this didnt present any danger. But it did offer to 
reimburse Mr V on provision of an invoice but this hadnt been received. It later 
changed its position and now has said it will not cover this cost.
Mr V also thought the magna filters at three of his properties hadnt been cleaned as 
part of the annual service visit and he had paid for this to be done privately. BG 
offered to refund the costs Mr V incurred at two of the properties on provision of an 
invoice. At the other property it said it said the magna filters had been cleaned and 
there was no evidence to show otherwise.
Mr V remained unhappy and raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator 
said that he thought BGs communication led Mr V to believe he needed to address 
the issue with the cooker hood, so he said it should pay Mr V £200. There remained 
some confusion over the reimbursement of the third-party magna filter cleaning but 
the Investigator confirmed BG was still happy to consider these for the properties on 
provision of the appropriate invoices and he thought this was a fair resolution.  
Mr V accepted the Investigators findings but BG didnt so the case has come to me 
for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cooker hood
Ive considered the report left by the BG engineer following the inspection of the 
cooker hood. This says Appliance safe? No. 
While BG subsequently said there was no danger from the issue with the cooker 
hood, I think the information in its report reasonably led Mr V to believe he needed to 
take action. While it may say subsequently this wasnt a danger, this isnt the 
impression the report gives so Im satisfied its communication around this was not 
sufficiently clear. As a result Mr V incurred costs that he would have otherwise 
avoided. 
Ill be keeping this in mind when deciding on an appropriate award.
The magna filters
Ive not seen enough evidence to safely conclude whether the magna filters have 
been cleaned in line with the policy terms  Mr V says they havent, BG says they 
have but theres little in the way of substantiating evidence.
BG has said Mr V declined to provide copies of the invoices for the cleaning of the 
magna filters. It has confirmed its still happy to consider the reimbursement of the 
third-party costs if Mr V provides this evidence.
I think thats fair in the circumstances and Ill leave it to Mr V to pass copies of these 
onto BG for its consideration if he wishes.
Overall
Taking everything Ive said above into account and in order to bring a conclusion to 
this matter, I think BG should pay Mr V £200. This takes into account the costs Mr V 
incurred and the distress and inconvenience BG caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr V £200 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman