DRN-4150702
The complaint
Ms B and Mrs B arent happy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)
have dealt with their claim under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Ms B and Mrs B took out a home emergency policy with RSA. The policy covered plumbing
and draining, including leaking taps.
On 14 May 2022 Ms B contacted RSA to report a leaking tap in the bath and a dripping tap
in the bathroom sink. RSA sent out a plumber who wasnt able to fix the problems
immediately. RSA said that its plumber would return once the replacement parts were
received.
Over the next week or so Ms B called on a number of occasions asking for an update and
explaining she was worried about the waste of water. RSA informed her that it was awaiting
a new tap. She was then told that it was waiting for a quote from a different plumber for the
work to be done. A new plumber attended who reassessed the situation but again was
unable to make an immediate repair. Ms B chased this again with RSA and complained
about the poor service and that the repairs were not complete. Ms B called RSA again on at
least two further occasions before a plumber attended on 26 May 2022 and the leaking tap
in the bath was fixed.
Ms B said that the dripping sink tap wasnt fixed. It still dripped when turned on and that the
tap head was so tight that Mrs B, who is elderly, couldnt use the tap at all. Ms B says she
reported this to RSA a few days later but heard nothing further.
RSA acknowledged Ms Bs complaint but hasnt provided a full response. Ms B then brought
her complaint to this service. She wanted compensation for the poor service and for RSA to
cover any increase in the water bill due to the delay in repairing the taps. She said she would
also like to instruct her own plumber to repair the dripping sink tap as she no longer had
confidence in RSA to do the job.
Our investigator didnt think that RSA had treated Ms B and Mrs B fairly. He said that RSA
should pay £250 compensation for poor service and that RSA should cover the cost of
repairing the dripping tap. He also said that if Ms B and Mrs B could show that the water bill
increased due to the leaks, then RSA should consider covering the increased cost.
Ms B and Mrs B accepted what our investigator said. Ms B added that as RSA hadnt fixed
the sink tap, in March 2023 Mrs B paid for her own plumber to repair the tap at a cost of
£105.60. RSA didnt respond to the investigators outcome and so the matter has been
referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 9 May 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Whilst my decision is similar to that of our
investigator, additional information has been provided by Ms B and so Ive issued a
provisional decision to allow for any further comment from either party.
RSA are the underwriters of this policy, and it instructed agents to handle the claim on its
behalf. RSA is accountable for the actions of its agents, so any reference to RSA in my
decision includes the actions of its agent.
RSA accepted the claim under the terms of the policy and agreed to carry out repairs. The
repairs to the bath tap were successfully completed, but the repairs to the sink tap werent.
As RSA didnt respond fully to Ms B and Mrs Bs complaint, Ive looked at its case files to
see what happened. The sink tap was reported by Ms B at the same time as the bath tap.
From reading RSAs log of events, its not clear what work, if any, was done to the sink tap.
Ms B says that when she used the tap after the plumbers visit, it still dripped and was so
tight to turn that Mrs B was unable to turn it on at all. She says she reported this to RSA. I
havent seen anything to dispute this.
When an insurer settles a claim by repair, we expect it to carry out effective and lasting
repairs. To be effective the repair must fully put right the damage. From what Ive seen in
this case, I dont think RSA has done this. Whatever repairs were done, Mrs B was unable to
use the tap because it was so stiff, and it still dripped. Im satisfied therefore that an effective
and lasting repair wasnt carried out and that RSA should put this right.
The tap has now been repaired so I cant ask RSA to carry out the repair. Ive seen a copy of
Mrs Bs invoice from her plumber dated 31 March 2023. It says that the plumber changed
the rubber washer and cleaned the seating, and that the tap then worked fine. Ms B said she
arranged the repair for Mrs B as shed heard nothing further from RSA and shed lost faith
that it would ever sort it out. I dont think this was unreasonable bearing in mind that 10
months had passed since the tap was reported as faulty. I therefore intend to require RSA to
pay Mrs B, to whom the invoice is addressed, £105.60 being the cost of the repairs.
I also think it fair that RSA pay interest at 8% pa on this sum from the day that Mrs B made
payment to her plumber to the date that RSA reimburse the sum to her. I say this because
Mrs B was without the money during this time.
This complaint also concerns RSAs service. RSA sent out a plumber at least three times to
affect a repair. Two visits appear to be for assessment  the second assessment being
because of a change of plumber. Im not clear why this was, but I think it likely that this led to
some delay. There also seems to be some confusion about the repair as initially RSA said it
was waiting for a new tap  but then the original tap was repaired with a replacement
washer. I can also see from RSAs logs that Ms B was calling almost daily for updates.
RSA were informed that Mrs B was vulnerable due to her age. Ive seen confirmation of this
in RSAs notes. Ms B says that the repeated visits and loss of water caused Mrs B distress.
These issues were never addressed by RSA. The bathroom sink tap was also left unusable
for many months. In the circumstances, I dont think that RSA has provided the level of
service that it should, and I intend to require RSA to pay a total of £250 compensation to Ms
B and Mrs B. I think this is fair.
Ms B also says that the leaking tap is likely to have increased the water costs. Whilst I
understand that there was concern about this, I think the waste of water is likely to have
been minimal. I say this because the bath tap was repaired within 12 days and the sink tap
only dripped when it was turned on. Having said that, if Ms B or Mrs B can provide evidence
of an increase in water costs, Im happy to consider it.Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B and Mrs B accepted my provisional decision and said there was no significant increase 
in water costs. RSA acknowledged my provisional decision but didnt comment further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision or my reasoning. My final decision is therefore the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
pay Mrs B the sum of £105.60 for the sink tap repair;
pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% pa from the date Mrs B made 
payment to the date the sum is paid to her by RSA; and
pay Ms B and Mrs B a total of £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. 
It should also give a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman