DRN-2373339
The complaint
Mr K complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) wont pay out for a backdated claim on 
the waiver of premium (WOP) policy which was included in his individual pension plan of an 
employers group personal pension (GPP) scheme. 
What happened
Mr K joined an employers GPP scheme, which was administered by Legal and General, in 
July 1998. Part of his pension contribution went towards a WOP policy. This would have paid 
his pension premiums if hed been unable to work due to accident or sickness. In June 2000 
Mr K suffered a serious injury as a result of a road accident and became disabled. He left his 
employer in November 2000 and needed full time medical care. He hasnt worked since. 
During this time the employer continued to pay the WOP premiums but stopped after the 
November 2000 contribution. 
Mr K also told us that hed taken out a critical illness policy, also through Legal and General, 
with his mortgage in 1997. And following his accident he made a claim on the policy which 
was settled in in late 2000. The administration of all of these policies has now been taken 
over by ReAsssure. So, for clarity, thats who Ill refer to during the rest of this complaint.
  
In 2013 Mr K received a letter from ReAssure, which explained that it had continued to 
deduct the WOP premiums from his plan after the employer stopped paying them  so it 
apologised and reallocated the premiums back to the pension.
 
In 2019, during a meeting about his pension, Mr Ks financial adviser suggested that he 
ought to have been able to claim on his WOP policy in 2000 as the policy had remained in 
force for some time after his accident.  So Mr Ks adviser complained to ReAssure that the 
claim should be considered retrospectively.
ReAssure said it wouldnt backdate the request because the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of 
the policy said that there was a six month deferment period before WOP could be claimed. 
In this case only five further premiums were paid to the plan, so Mr K wasnt able to make a 
claim.
Mr Ks adviser brought his complaint to us because he believed ReAssure were acting 
unfairly. Initially because of the historic nature of the matter one of our investigators thought 
the complaint had been made outside of the time limits allowed. But I decided it hadnt been 
brought too late and could be considered. 
Mr Ks adviser then reiterated the reasons why he thought the complaint should be upheld. 
He said:
WOP was in force the time of the accident and the disability Mr K subsequently 
suffered would have been the basis for a claim. 
Premiums were paid by the employer until November 2000 so with 30 days grace the 
WOP benefit should have had, the claim was valid  had Mr K been made aware he 
could claim. 
Mr K wasnt sent any reminders that the policy was due to lapse and wasnt 
contacted by ReAssure despite it being aware of his accident and injuries. 
The premiums remained in force until 2013, albeit in error. So the policy was still in 
force and ReAssure has admitted it would have considered a claim up to the point it 
refunded the premiums in 2013. 
ReAssure should agree to refund Mr Ks index linked pension contributions to his 
plan up to his retirement age.
We had upheld a decision on a similar case because the insurer didnt send the 
consumer at least two letters about the possibility of the benefits lapsing. 
So our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He made 
the following points in support of his view:
He thought it was more likely than not that ReAssure had sent Mr K a pack informing 
him that it was possible to take over his pension plan as an individual and continue to 
make contributions.
Although Mr K thought ReAssure should have cross checked his critical illness claim 
and found that he held another policy with it  and advised him to claim on the WOP, 
the investigator was persuaded by ReAssures statement that it only cross-checked 
death policies not critical illness ones.
It was the employers and members responsibility to advise ReAssure of anything to 
do with Mr Ks policy within the group scheme. There was no evidence that the 
employer or Mr Ks family made any enquiries about his pension after his accident in 
2000.
Mr K needed to be on sick leave for six months for his claim to be valid. He left the 
employer in November 2000 with his final premium being paid, in arrears, in 
December 2000. Therefore he hadnt met the six month deferment condition and 
wasnt entitled to claim.
While it may have been possible that ReAssure would have paid Mr Ks claim before 
2013, it was under no obligation to do so now that the policy had been lapsed.
Mr K didnt agree, and his adviser made the following additional points:
Mr K and his wife had notified ReAssure about his accident, as had his employer. He 
didnt think it was believable that the same claims department didnt deal with all 
protection type complaints or at the very least shared information. 
The advisers that liaised with the employer about the GPP were aware of the 
accident and had a duty of care to make Mr K aware of the WOP and his ability to 
claim on the policy.
The WOP policy shouldnt have lapsed so quickly after the premiums stopped. Usual 
process would have been to give Mr K a 30 day grace period to re instate the policy if 
he wanted to. In any case the WOP policy was still in force up to 2013 so a claim 
would have been valid up to that point.  
Mr and Mrs K had been at home following his accident and didnt receive any 
correspondence about his pension plan. They were corresponding with ReAssure 
over his critical illness claim so would have dealt with any correspondence about the 
pension accordingly. 
And there was no evidence that ReAssure had actually sent anything to Mr K.   The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view and as Mr K still didnt agree with the 
outcome he asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So its been passed to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I was sorry to 
learn of the serious nature of the injuries and medical issues Mr K has suffered as a result of 
his accident in 2000, and I have sympathy for the position he has found himself in  so I 
know Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. Ill therefore explain my reasoning.
Was ReAssure correct to refute the backdated claim on Mr Ks WOP policy?
Mr Ks adviser said that Mr K suffered hugely following his accident  both mentally and 
physically. So he thinks it would seem unfair for ReAssure to refute his claim now because 
of one missed premium in December 2000.
The information Ive seen regarding leavers from Mr Ks employer that was sent to 
ReAssure showed that he left the company from Nov 2000  but with no reason stated. It 
also showed that the last premium received was in December 2000 but was applicable to 
November 2000 as the premiums were in arrears. The form also suggested that the date of 
leaving was 15 November 2000.
So its clear that, following his serious accident in June 2000, Mr Ks employer made five 
further contributions towards his plan. It would seem reasonable that the employer stopped 
its payments when it knew Mr K no longer worked there, so Im satisfied that the WOP had 
been cancelled at that time and was no longer in force. 
Ive also looked carefully at the pension scheme rules in place at the time. The section 
relating to nature of the WOP benefit states where these sections apply and subject to their 
conditions Legal & General will during any period of incapacity as defined below (excluding 
the first six months of that period) treat any regular contributions, which fall due but remain 
unpaid, as if they had continued to be paid. 
So, based simply on the T&Cs in place at the time, Mr K wasnt eligible to qualify for the 
WOP cover as his contributions hadnt continued for the necessary six months after his 
incapacity began. Mr K has said that there ought to have been a period of grace during 
which the contribution could have been made and extended to the sixth month which would 
have made him eligible to claim. But I havent seen anything within the T&Cs which said that 
ReAssure offered such a grace period, except that it allowed premiums to be paid within the 
rest of the month they were due if there was an unpaid contribution. 
But this would also have required the unpaid contribution to be made within that month for 
the plan to remain in force, and in this case Mr Ks employer didnt make the unpaid 
contribution or ask for the payments to be suspended. So, in accordance with the T&Cs the 
plan was discontinued. This information was set out within the plan particulars so Mr Ks 
employer would have been aware of the situation that would arise when it discontinued the 
contributions upon Mr K leaving the company. So I cant say ReAssure has done anything 
wrong when it says that Mr K wasnt entitled to make a claim on his WOP policy at the time. 
Mr K says he didnt receive any reminder letters or information about the unpaid contribution, 
but no reminder letters were sent directly to Mr K because the premiums were paid by the 
employer. However, ReAssure says it would have sent a pack to Mr K when he left his employer which explained that he could continue with the policy as an individual. Mr K 
denied receives this pack and says both he and his wife were at home for long periods after 
the accident while he recovered. He says they would have been aware of such a pack if it 
had arrived and would have taken the necessary steps required at the time.
Because of the passage of time Im unable to either confirm the pack was sent or indeed 
received by Mr K so I cant say ReAssure failed in its duty or that Mr K failed to respond. But 
I have considered what the likely course of action would have been at the time  had Mr K 
received the pack. Mr K suffered serious injuries during the accident  which he has never 
fully recovered from and has been unable to resume work. So, if hed been given the 
opportunity to continue the plan, I think its likely he would either not been able to continue 
with the pension because as an individual he had no relevant earnings, or because he had 
no longer had any income, he wouldnt have been able to afford to continue the payments. 
I know Mr K will say that he would only have needed to make one further contribution to 
qualify, but given the situation at the time Im not persuaded that continuing with the plan 
would have been a priority for him  unless he was advised otherwise which Ill cover below. 
Should ReAssure have done more in 2000 to make Mr K aware he should make a claim?
Mr Ks adviser has said that ReAssure should have done more in 2000 to make Mr K aware 
of his right to make a claim. It says that at the time ReAssure was dealing with a claim on a 
critical illness policy for Mr K, so it was fully aware of his accident and the ongoing position. It 
also said the accident was so serious that it was widely known about in the area where Mr K 
lived and worked, and the ReAssure adviser that frequently visited the employer regarding 
the GPP would have known about it.
The plans T&Cs explained the conditions that applied to the WOP benefit. They said that 
you must notify Legal & General of any period of incapacity as described above within two 
months of its commencement. I appreciate that in this case it would have been difficult for 
Mr K himself to have notified the business of his accident, although I think his employer, or a 
member of his family would have been in a position to do so. But even if I am wrong about 
that I havent seen any evidence to show that ReAssure had an obligation to contact Mr K 
directly and make him aware that he held a policy which he might have been able to claim 
on.
 
I know Mr K thinks ReAssure should have done more and I can understand his frustration 
that it didnt. But I dont think it was obliged to and whilst Mr K says the ReAssure adviser 
was often at his workplace to discuss matters with the employer, that doesnt mean the 
adviser was aware of what had happened to Mr K or that he should have done anything to 
instigate a claim on Mr Ks behalf. 
Mr K has also expressed concern that he had a critical illness policy claim with Reassure at 
the same time  which was paid out successfully. So he thinks ReAssure ought to have 
cross checked his details across its organisation which would then have made it aware of his 
WOP plan. But there was no obligation on ReAssure to have such a process in place, 
despite Mr Ks advisers view that it was common practice at the time. Its for ReAssure to 
decide what systems it has in place in order to be able to fully assess insurance claims for its 
customers and Im not going to interfere in such everyday commercial decisions. Although I 
note that Mr Ks critical illness policy was held under a personal capacity with his wife 
whereas his WOP policy was part of his employers GPP. 
So I dont think it wouldnt be unreasonable for a business to keep records of individual 
policies separate from those held directly with employers and businesses. 
The relevance of the 2013 letterAlthough Ive explained why I dont think ReAssure has done anything wrong by refuting 
Mr Ks claim from 2000, the fact remains that ReAssure made a mistake in not suspending 
the WOP premiums  which continued to be deducted from Mr Ks pension for the next 13 
years. When it subsequently carried out an administrative review of the plan and identified 
the error with Mr Ks WOP premiums ReAssure took the necessary steps to put him in the 
position he should have been  which was for the erroneous premiums to be refunded back 
to the plan. 
Mr K didnt contest ReAssures actions at that time, although as he hadnt been aware that 
he could have claimed for his disability I wouldnt have expected him to dispute ReAssures 
decision. But I dont think Mr K should benefit from the mistake that ReAssure made in not 
suspending the premiums when it was clear to all the parties involved that the pension and 
WOP policy within the pension plan had been cancelled and lapsed in 2000, regardless of 
whether Mr K believes it was in force for the necessary six month deferred period from 
June 2000.
I dont think the WOP was in force in 2013, as evidenced by the correspondence from 2000 
that clearly showed premiums had been stopped and the plan had been discontinued 
according to the T&Cs. I dont think it would be fair to tell ReAssure to honour a claim on a 
policy that had clearly been cancelled before that time. I know Mr K will say that ReAssure 
had said it might have been able to exercise some discretion to consider any claim made up 
to 2013, and thats a matter for ReAssure to decide upon based on what it would done in 
that hypothetical situation. 
But I dont believe that obliges it to consider a claim made in 2019 on the basis that it had 
made a mistake by continuing to apply the suspended contributions up to 2013. By that time 
when ReAssure contacted Mr K and made him aware of the refund, it had put him into the 
position he ought to have been in had the contributions not continued erroneously  so I 
think that was a fair and reasonable solution to the matter.
 
Summary
Ultimately here, while I have some sympathy for the difficult position Mr K now finds himself 
in, and I can understand why he believes that ReAssure should be able to find a way to 
honour his WOP claim rather than refute it, I havent seen sufficient evidence to show that 
ReAssure has done anything wrong in not considering Mr Ks claim.
 
The six month deferred period wasnt completed before Mr Ks employer stopped paying his 
premiums and, as this was the employers GPP, I think the responsibility for making 
contributions and making ReAssure aware of any changes to the plan  such as people 
leaving the company  lay with the employer. ReAssure wasnt made aware of the reason 
for Mr K leaving and, despite the seriousness of the accident he was involved in I havent 
seen any evidence to show that ReAssure was aware of what had happened from other 
sources.
But in any case, I dont think it was obliged to make Mr K aware of the possibility of a claim 
based on the information Ive seen it was provided with, and I dont believe ReAssure was 
obliged to cross reference Mr Ks personal critical illness claim with the potential for a claim 
on the WOP. Its unfortunate that Mr K wasnt able to make a claim at the time, although the 
fact remains that he wasnt eligible based on the terms of the plan. 
But even though Mr K and his adviser believe ReAssure should have done more to help 
Mr K and been more flexible regarding a claim in both 2000 and 2019, I dont think ReAssure 
has done anything wrong, so Im not going to tell it to consider Mr Ks backdated claim.
 My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman