DRN-3237629
The complaint
T complains about the decision of Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to decline its business 
interruption insurance claim, made for losses relating to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
T is represented in this compliant, and other parties have also been involved in the 
correspondence. But for the sake of simplicity, I have largely just referred to T and Arch.
T operates as a business in the food industry and are located in Wales. They held a 
commercial insurance policy underwritten by Arch. In March 2020, T contacted Arch to claim 
for its losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. Arch declined the claim. Arch said that 
Ts policy did include an extension providing cover for business interruption caused by 
disease  but only a specified list of diseases, not including COVID-19. Arch also said that 
the Denial of Access extension in the policy did not apply to the circumstances as T had 
been closed due to government-imposed restrictions rather than by the police or a 
competent local authority, and that the cause of this closure was not an emergency in the 
vicinity of Ts premises.
T complained and, when Arch did not change its decision, T referred its complaint to our 
Service. However, our Investigator felt that Archs decision was in line with the policy terms. 
The Investigator said that there had been no damage, as required by the policy, that had 
led to Ts closure. And that the disease clause in Ts policy was based on an exhaustive list 
that did not include COVID-19  so did not provide cover for the current claim.
Our Investigator also said that, in the context of this policy, she thought the term competent 
local authority referred to a localised body, rather than a national authority. And that the 
cause of T closing its premises was the announcement and introduction of restrictions by a 
national authority. T remained unsatisfied and so its complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 restrictions have had 
on T. But I do not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that T closed in March 2020 due to the nationally imposed restrictions. The 
nature of Ts business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to fully remain open after 
this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy T took out. 
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by either Damage or an Incident. The policy defines 
these as loss of possession of or destruction of or damage to buildings or property. Whilst I 
appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 
caused loss, destruction or damage to property which has led to an interruption of Ts 
business.
T has referred to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus leading to COVID-19, 
SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having considered the cases 
referred to, as well as the rest of the current legal landscape, I do not agree. Instead, I 
consider that damage would require either a physical change to property or specialist 
cleaning to remove the cause of damage. 
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ts property, its suppliers property, or property in the vicinity of Ts 
premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of such property was 
required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I think Arch acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining Ts claim under the parts of the policy that required such 
damage. I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. 
And I dont think the temporary loss of use of Ts premises (or the premises of their 
suppliers) would constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be 
more than a temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage or an Incident which has 
led to an interruption of Ts business. 
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been Damage or an Incident, provide cover in the circumstances of Ts claim. 
And I think Arch acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ts claim under these areas of 
cover.
Ts policy does include two extensions to the business interruption section that do not always 
require Damage and that are relevant to the current complaint. These are the Disease 
extension and the Denial of Access extension. I will address each of these in turn.
Before I do so, I will note that a number of legal judgments and an arbitration award are 
relevant considerations in relation to this complaint. As well as the FCA Test Case (The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 
(Comm)) and other judgments, an arbitration process relating to a different insurance 
company, China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd, is significant. This arbitration process did 
not involve, and is not binding on, the parties to this complaint. However, it did involve 
consideration of the same policy wording, so is useful on certain issues.
The policyholders in the arbitration were represented by a law firm, as well as a QC and 
junior barrister who specialised in insurance. The arbitrator was a retired Supreme Court 
Justice called Lord Mance. As the arbitrator, Lord Mance had a duty to act fairly and 
impartially, giving each party a reasonable opportunity of putting its case and dealing with 
that of its opponent. A copy of the Award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. 
The Disease extensionThis extension in Ts policy provides cover losses caused by, in part:
the occurrence at the Premises:

of a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition

Clarification of Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease 
Endorsement
It is hereby understood and agreed that for the purposes of the cover afforded by this 
Extension, the reference to a notifiable, human, infectious or contagious disease 
contained in paragraph b shall be deemed to mean solely the following diseases:
Diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984 or 
the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations, 1988, namely:
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, Meningococcal, 
Pneumococcal, Haemophilus influenzae, Viral, Other specified, Unspecified, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Opthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever, Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough and Yellow fever. 
No other disease shall be added to the above list without the prior written consent of 
the Insurers.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided T with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Arch to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Arch intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Arch deliberately 
chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy T had.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy they have is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed above. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does 
not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy 
can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined 
list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ts claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As cover was not provided under this area of Ts policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Archs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
The Denial of Access extension
The second extension to the business interruption section of Ts policy that is relevant to this 
complaint provides cover where there is an:
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of
a Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises 
b the closing down or sealing off of the Premises or property in the vicinity of the 
Premises in accordance with instructions issued by the Police or other competent 
local authority for reasons other than the conduct of the Insured or any director or 
partner of the Insured or the condition of the Premises or the carrying out of repair or 
maintenance work at the Premises or the Insureds noncompliance with a prior order 
of the Police or other competent local authority;
c the actions or advice of the Police or other competent local authority due to an 
emergency threatening life or property in the vicinity of the Premises;

As above, I dont consider a clause requiring damage to be met in the circumstances. So, I 
dont consider a to be relevant to Ts claim.
T has referred to a recent legal judgment which it argues means that the requirement in 
subclauses b and c for there to have been an emergency in the vicinity of Ts premises 
which led to the interruption of its business is not a bar to the claim being successful. 
However, both subclauses b and c above only provide cover where something has 
happened leading to either the Police or other competent local authority to issue instructions 
or advice, or take action. So, before it is necessary for me to consider whether there has 
been an emergency in the vicinity of Ts premises, it is necessary for me to consider whether 
the interruption to Ts business was as a result of something the Police or other competent 
local authority did.
Neither the terms the Police nor other competent local authority have been defined within 
the policy. As such, it is necessary for me to consider what these terms are most likely to 
mean in the context of this policy.
I think the Police can be interpreted in line with the normal everyday usage of this term and 
I think this would be commonly understood. The closure of Ts premises was a requirement 
following the instructions of the government-imposed restrictions, rather than any action of 
the police.
I appreciate that, had T remained open, or reopened, during the lockdown period it might 
have been closed by the police. However, it is not what did happen. I am only able to reach 
my decision based on the circumstances of this complaint, rather than what might have 
happened in different circumstances. The closure of Ts premises was a requirement 
following the instructions of the government-imposed restrictions. T obeyed these 
instructions and closed Ts premises. So, it cannot be said Ts premises were closed in 
accordance with instructions issued by the police.
It is though necessary for me to consider in more depth what the term competent local 
authority means.Taking everything into account, including the decision in the China Taiping arbitration, I 
consider that the term competent local authority as it is used in Ts policy means a 
localised authority. As the arbitrator concluded, there is seemingly no reason for the 
inclusion of the word local in this term other than to limit the relevant authorities to a narrow 
geographic area. And I consider the natural way of reading this term would be to conclude 
that it referred to local bodies only.
When reaching this conclusion, I am mindful of the fact Ts insurance contract should be 
interpreted objectively, based on the understanding a reasonable person would have had at 
the time the contract was entered. I dont think the reasonable person would have read this 
policy and considered that this term referred to a national authority/the Government. That 
would not be the natural understanding of the words used in the term. And nothing else in 
the policy indicates a different meaning should be applied.
I note that the FCA Test Case and the arbitration may have focussed primarily on the 
situation in England. And that, in Ts case, the Welsh Parliament would have been involved 
in the imposition of the restrictions on Ts premises. But I dont consider the findings of a 
court or arbitration would likely have been different had they been focussed on the situation 
in Wales. The Welsh Parliament is the devolved legislature for the whole of Wales. And I 
dont think a reasonable person, at the time Ts contract was entered, would have 
considered the Welsh Parliament to be a local authority. I dont consider the term local, in 
the context of Ts policy, would reasonably refer to the whole of Wales.
I do also note that a slightly different interpretation of the term competent local authority 
was reached in the FCA Test Case when the court considered the Ecclesiastical policies. 
However, such terms need to be interpreted based on the context of the contract they 
appear in. And there are significant differences between the Ecclesiastical policies and Ts 
policy. To my mind, the key difference was that the Ecclesiastical policy used this term in a 
clause that also contained the term Government Police or Local Authority. And it would not 
have made commercial sense for the two terms to have a different meaning in that context.
I think that restrictions that might be imposed on T, which might fall generally into the areas 
of cover provided by sub-clauses b and c in the Denial of Access extension as well as the 
Disease extension, could be following instructions of either local or national bodies. But that 
there is reasonable commercial sense in Arch having limited cover to where those 
instructions are given by a local body. This would have given T cover for the events which 
were most likely to affect it, but would also have limited Archs exposure to extreme events, 
which are more likely to result in a national response, such extreme events likely to result in 
high value claims. And, significantly, I dont think a reasonable person would have 
understood the policy as providing cover different to this when it was entered.
Ultimately, I consider that in the context of Ts policy the term competent local authority 
refers to a localised body. The instructions that led to the closure of Ts premises were 
issued by a national authority, rather than a localised body. As such, I do not consider T was 
instructed to close its premises by a competent local authority. And I consider Arch acted 
fairly and reasonably when declining Ts claim under the Denial of Access extension.
Having considered the rest of Ts policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Arch should have met their claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for T and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why their 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman