DRN-2083673
The complaint
Mr M isnt happy with the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered him 
to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on his 
credit card.
What happened
Mr M complained to Barclays that it mis-sold him a PPI policy alongside his credit card. 
Initially Barclays said it could find no PPI associated with the card. However sometime later it 
agreed that PPI had most likely been taken out when Mr M applied for his credit card in 
July 1990. Barclays agreed to uphold Mr Ms complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold and 
made him an offer to settle his complaint. 
Barclays said it had no data to work out accurately how much Mr M had actually paid for the 
PPI and how long it ran on the account. So it had made him an average offer based on data 
it held for other consumers who had been sold a comparable policy held for a similar time. 
Barclays didnt know exactly when the policy ended. The earliest statement it still held for 
Mr Ms credit card account was May 2004. And as this didnt show a charge for PPI, 
Barclays knew that Mr M couldnt have had PPI cover on his credit card after 1st April 2004. 
So, to be fair to Mr M, Barclays took this date as when Mr Ms PPI policy ended, rather than 
any earlier. 
Mr M wasnt happy that Barclays had taken such a long time to reverse its original decision 
that he hadnt been sold PPI with his card and to offer him compensation for mis-selling the 
policy to him. And Mr M didnt think it was fair that, because Barclays said it didnt still hold 
any information that would allow it to estimate the PPI premiums hed paid, its offer was 
based on the average compensation paid to other consumers who had been sold a 
comparable policy held for a similar length of time. Mr M didnt think an average offer was 
right as he said he had a high balance on his card for a number of years as a result of 
financial pressures he had been experiencing. So Mr M thinks the way Barclays calculated 
his offer understated the amount of compensation he should have received for the mis-sale. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought Barclays offer was fair. Mr M didnt 
agree as he still thought hed spent more on the card than the use of an average figure 
would imply. And he says he received a substantially higher offer on another card PPI policy 
hed held on a different card which also had a high outstanding balance. So he still thought 
Barclays hadnt paid him enough in compensation for the PPI mis-sale.
As Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators view, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed it mis-sold PPI to Mr M, so Im not looking at how the policy was sold. I 
need to consider all the available information and decide whether the compensation 
Barclays has paid to Mr M for this mis-sale is fair.
Having done so, I think the offer is fair for reasons that Ill now explain. 
We expect a business that mis-sold PPI to put things right by putting the consumer as far as 
possible into the position theyd be in now if theyd taken the credit card without PPI. 
So wed expect a business to refund what a consumer paid for PPI premiums. It should also 
pay back any interest the consumer was charged on these premiums. And, if the consumer 
paid more than enough to clear their balance, it should add 8% per year simple interest to 
the extra the consumer paid for any time theyre out of pocket.
But businesses arent required to keep full customer records indefinitely. So its often the 
case that a business doesnt have full records of credit card account balances and PPI 
premiums charged going back many years. If there are missing records, it is impossible to 
know exactly what someone paid for PPI. So we expect the business to use any records it 
does have to make reasonable assumptions and make the fairest offer it can for the amount 
possibly paid for the PPI. 
In Mr Ms case, Barclays has copies of the credit card statements for his account from 
May 2004 and it has some computer records showing overall information about the account. 
It also has the original application form completed by Mr M in July 1990. 
Barclays computer records dont show any indication that PPI was attached to the account 
or ever paid. But Mr Ms application form had an opt out box that had to be ticked if PPI 
was not requested. As this box had not been ticked on Mr Ms application, Barclays has 
assumed that Mr M most likely had PPI applied to his account, despite the other records not 
showing any PPI.
 
As the computer records do not show any information about PPI, it is unknown when it was 
cancelled. The PPI could have been cancelled at any time. Its possible Mr M saw the PPI 
charge on his first statement and questioned it and it was cancelled after the first month. Its 
also possible it was cancelled when replacement cards were issued for the account. But with 
no information available to show any actual cancellation date, in calculating its offer, 
Barclays assumed it was 1st April 2004. This was because the first available statement for 
the account was for May 2004 and this shows there was no PPI being charged in that 
month. And all subsequent statements do not show any PPI charges.
In response to Mr Ms complaint about the compensation he was offered, Barclays has 
reviewed the way it estimated the time Mr M may have had his PPI policy for. And in doing 
so, it has realised that Mr M couldnt have had a PPI policy for as long as it had originally 
assumed. This is because, although Barclays doesnt have statements for an earlier date 
than May 2004, its computer system shows that no PPI premiums were applied to Mr Ms 
account after 30th April 2001. So this is the latest date at which Mr Ms policy could have 
been in force. Barclays therefore thinks that it paid higher compensation to Mr M than it 
should have done, had it used all the information it had available to it. 
From what Ive seen, I think Barclays did over-estimate the length of time that Mr M could, 
potentially, have had a PPI policy attached to his card account.  So Im satisfied that, in 
using this period of time to calculate its offer, Barclays has been more than fair to Mr M.
Ive next considered whether Barclays should have assumed Mr M had a higher balance 
than that of the average consumer which it used in calculating the compensation due to him.There are a number of ways that are considered fair for a business to assess what may be 
described as an average offer and fair compensation where there is not full data available. If 
a business has any actual data for an account when the PPI was active, it would normally 
use that to build an estimate of what may have happened before and after that data period 
for the PPI charges. But here Barclays has no specific data for the PPI charges or balances 
on Mr Ms account to use. 
Barclays has nothing to show how much was paid, if anything at all, for the PPI at any time. 
As Ive said it has very fairly assumed PPI may have run from the start of the account to 
when it knows there was no PPI policy in force.
Over a number of years Barclays has obtained data about other consumers who held a 
similar PPI policy, on the same type of account, for similar time periods. And it has 
established a formula looking at the balances and charges those consumers paid for PPI. 
And from that data it has established the average amount paid to those consumers. This 
average amount it what it has paid to Mr M. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about having high balances on his account for some 
time. And I can see that on the first statement that Barclays has for Mr M, in May 2004, Mr M 
had a balance on his account of over £11,000. But this was some three years after the latest 
date at which I am satisfied Mr M could still have been paying for PPI on his card. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to conclude that Mr M consistently maintained a high balance on 
his card account in earlier years  typically, card balances tend to increase in size gradually 
from when the card account is first opened.
In this case, theres no clear evidence of what Mr Ms average outstanding account balance 
was in the years from 1990 to 2001, or how much was ever paid, even in one month, for the 
PPI. So I dont think there is any data Barclays can use which can be said to be a more 
reliable basis for working out the compensation paid to Mr M than the average figures it has 
used. So, in these circumstances, I think the approach that Barclays has taken is fair and 
that the compensation it has paid to Mr M is fair and reasonable.
Its possible Mr M could have paid more for the PPI than the compensation offered by 
Barclays. But its also quite likely he paid less than this. So, without any further clear 
evidence, I think the way Barclays has calculated Mr Ms offer is both fair and reasonable.
In responding to our adjudicators view, Mr M also says he was paid much higher 
compensation for a PPI complaint he made on another credit card he held. But this service 
looks at the individual circumstances of each complaint referred to us. So I dont think the 
fact that Mr M may have been offered higher compensation on another complaint hes made 
about a credit card implies that the offer Barclays has made on this complaint is unfair.
Finally, I appreciate that Mr M still isnt happy with the fact that it took so long for Barclays to 
reverse its original decision on his complaint and to conclude that he was likely to have been 
sold PPI with his credit card. But this all took place a long time ago and, perhaps not that 
surprisingly, neither Barclays nor Mr M have retained copies of many of the records which 
were produced at the time. So, I think its understandable why Barclays had some initial 
difficulty in deciding whether it was more likely than not that Mr M did take out PPI. But, in 
the end, I think Barclays treated Mr M fairly by assuming that he did take PPI out and by 
adding 8% simple interest to its offer for all the time he was out of pocket until the 
compensation offer was finally paid to him. So I dont think it would be reasonable or fair for 
me to ask Barclays to do any more because of the time it took to make its offer to Mr M.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above I am satisfied that the compensation paid by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to Mr M for the mis-sold PPI on his credit card is fair and Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman