DRN-2518913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the 
money they lost when they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview here.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs H sadly fell victim to a scam. They believed they were purchasing 
a van they had seen advertised online and made two online payments totalling £2,900 from 
their bank account, to the sellers account which was held with Halifax. Both payments were 
made on the same day. The amount transferred was half the total cost of the van and it had 
been agreed the remaining balance was to be paid on collection which was arranged for the 
following day.  
On the day of collection Mr and Mrs H went to the address provided by the seller but neither 
the seller nor the van were there. They tried to contact the seller, but they didnt respond. It 
was at this point, they realised they had likely fallen victim to a scam and contacted their 
bank to report the matter. They also reported the incident to the Police and Action Fraud.
In this instance as Mr and Mrs Hs bank is part of the same banking group as Halifax, when 
the fraud was reported they were able to review the beneficiary account. They informed 
Mr and Mrs H no funds remained to be returned. 
Mr and Mrs H asked that Halifax refund them their loss. Theyre unhappy that the seller 
continues advertising the van for sale even after theyve reported the scam. They think 
Halifax have; 
- failed to carry out appropriate checks when opening the beneficiary account;
- failed to identify unusual or suspicious account activity; and
- failed to respond appropriately to notification of fraud by not closing the beneficiary 
account and allowing the account holder to continue defrauding innocent victims like 
themselves. 
Halifax didnt agree to providing a refund. It said appropriate checks were carried out at 
account opening and at the time it would not have known that the account holder would go 
on to commit fraud. It says it did act upon notification but unfortunately the funds had already 
been removed and nothing remained for it to return. It couldnt divulge information about the 
beneficiary or actions it had taken in relation to the account, due to data protection, but 
advised that it did take reports of this nature very seriously and takes any necessary action 
to prevent future fraudulent activity.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with Halifaxs response and asked our service to consider 
their complaint. One of our investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that 
Halifax needed to do anything further. She was satisfied Halifax couldnt reasonably have 
done more to prevent Mr and Mrs Hs loss. She was also satisfied it had responded 
appropriately to notification of fraud. Mr and Mrs H disagree and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Im really sorry to hear Mr and Mrs H have been victims of a scam. I 
appreciate how distressing the situation has been for them, particularly as they continue to 
see the scammer advertising online. 
Firstly I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider complaints about the actions of financial services businesses  but we cant look 
into complaints about the actions of other third parties. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy the 
scammer is still operating and defrauding innocent victims. The actions of the scammer are 
a criminal matter. I understand theyve reported this to the police, and I consider the police 
and courts are better placed to resolve this part of their complaint than we are.
It also remains that I cant reasonably ask Halifax to reimburse losses that resulted from the 
criminal actions of a third party. I have to decide whether or not Halifax reasonably did 
enough to prevent, or respond to, the alleged authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And if it 
did not whether its acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr and Mrs Hs loss (not the potential 
loss of others). 
Account opening 
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when 
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly 
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account. But this isnt 
always possible or necessary. 
In the specific circumstances of this complaint Halifax have not been able to locate and 
provide this service with copies of the documentation it obtained prior to opening the 
beneficiary bank account. That doesnt automatically mean that it didnt follow its account 
opening procedures, failed to correctly verify the account holders identity or carry out 
sufficient checks before opening the account. There are a number of reasons why this 
information may not be available and in the absence of such evidence, I still need to 
consider what I think is most likely to have happened  taking into account all the available 
information.  
Ive carefully considered the length of time the account had been open and how it had been 
operating before Mr and Mrs Hs payments were received and on balance, I think its unlikely 
that Halifax missed an opportunity to prevent their loss when opening the account. I say this 
because the account had been open for some time and was operating normally with no prior 
notifications of fraud. And for a period of time was receiving credits from government 
sources. This appears, most likely, to be a scenario where a correctly opened, genuine 
account was later, for some reason, utilised to misappropriate funds, rather than an account 
which was opened fraudulently with that intention. So for the reasons above, on balance, I dont think there wouldve been anything at the time 
of opening the account that wouldve alerted Halifax that the account it was opening would 
later be used fraudulently. So I think its unlikely that Halifax missed an opportunity to 
prevent Mr and Mrs Hs loss when opening the account.
Account activity 
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as 
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the 
account. But it also has regulatory and legal obligations to monitor its business relationships 
and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving consideration to 
unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive looked at the account history and I cant say there was any account activity that I think 
would reasonably have stood out to Halifax as suspicious or significantly outside of what 
might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied there was no notification of 
fraud and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Halifax might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.  
As I dont think Halifax ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected 
it to have intervened, I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr and Mrs Hs loss. 
Response to notification of fraud
Once notified of the scam, the beneficiary account was restricted promptly, but unfortunately, 
Mr and Mrs Hs funds had already been withdrawn from the account. This was also 
communicated to Mr and Mrs H in a timely manner. So, I dont think I can fairly say Halifax 
didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman