DRN-3116258
The complaint
Ms P (by the way of her representative) has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses)
gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ps complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was not intending to uphold 
Ms Ps complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings (in 
italics below) follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms P took three loans from Morses between June 2017 and December 2018. A summary of
her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Morses can be found below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Term 
(weeks)Loan amount
1 02/06/2017 13/12/2017 33 £400.00
2 13/12/2017 13/12/2018 52 £600.00
3 13/12/2018 04/05/2019 52 £800.00
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. But the
adjudicator did uphold the complaint about loan 3. She said the pattern of lending by loan 3
was harmful to Ms P so this loan ought not to have been provided.
It appears that Ms P agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Morses didnt agree, in its response it said;
three loans in 18 months is not excessive
the loan three looked affordable based on the information Ms P declared
there were no signs of any financial difficulties and
when this loan was provided it was still at the start of the lending relationship.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms P. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish
whether Ms P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Loans 1-2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint about these loans, and Ms Ps doesnt
appear to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the
level of individual checks Morses completed before approving these loans, as I dont think
there is any ongoing disagreement about them. But, for the avoidance of doubt, I dont
disagree with the outcome reached about these loans by the adjudicator.
Loan 3
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ps complaint about this loan because in her view, Ms P was
reliant on this lending in part because shed been indebted for around 18 months and the
loan amounts were increasing. But I dont agree, and Ive explained why below.
Ms P had been indebted to Morses for 18 months, and in that time, she had only taken two
previous loans and shed been able to repay loans one and two without any obviousproblems.
Ive also considered the quick uptake, that being loans 2 and 3 were both granted on the
same day the previous loan had been repaid because this could indicate a possible problem.
But I dont think that on its own is enough for me to be able to conclude loan 3 was harmful
for Ms P solely based on the pattern of lending. So, Im not persuaded that Ms Ps lending
had been harmful to her based solely on the pattern of lending and / or the time in debt.
For these loans I understand that Morses wouldve asked Ms P about her income and
expenditure. For loan 3, the information Morses was provided, showed Ms P declared her
weekly income was £426 with declared weekly outgoings of £279. So, based on this Morses
wouldve thought Ms P wouldve been in a position to afford her repayments of £28 per
week.
However, Ms P had been indebted to Morses for around 18 months, and she was coming
back for her largest loan on the same day that her previous loan had been repaid. Ms P was
also, extending her indebtedness  for a further 52 weeks.
So, by loan 3, I think Morses needed to have a complete, full and accurate understanding of
Ms Ps financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for
evidence of her income via a payslip and then asked for evidence of what bills she had.
Alternately, Morses couldve requested copies of Ms Ps bank statements which wouldve
given it an accurate picture of her financial position and wouldve highlighted any financial
difficulties she may have been having.
Morses didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 3. But that isnt
the end of the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Morses shouldnt have given this
loan, I have to be satisfied that not only did Morses not carry out a proportionate check, but
by not carrying out a proportionate check has this caused Ms P a loss  that being the loan
ought not to have been approved because it wouldve found out that it was unaffordable.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Ms Ps actual financial position at the time. In the absence of this information, I cant
conclude Morses made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im
proposing not to uphold this complaint.
Both Ms P and Morses were asked to provide any further comments or evidence to this 
Service no later than 18 October 2021.
Ms Ps representative confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and it explained it would 
let us know when it received a response.  
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This Service hasnt heard anything further from Ms Ps representative, and as the deadline 
for a response to the provisional decision has now passed, I see no reason to delay the 
issuing of the final decision.  
As neither party had anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in my provisional decision. I still think the checks for loan three didnt go far enough, but Ive not been able to establish that had Morses carried out further checks it 
wouldve likely concluded that Ms Ps loan was unaffordable. 
So, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Ms Ps 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman