DRN-1866821
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottworth Limited (trading as Cash Converters) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr S borrowed from Cash Converters between May 2011 and July 2016. Scottworth is 
responsible for the loans he was given before 28 October 2014. 
Scottworth has not engaged at all with this Service in regard to this complaint. It has 
however previously confirmed that the email address we have used is correct and so I am 
satisfied that the lender has been given adequate opportunity to make representations on 
the complaint and our adjudicators findings. I am also aware that Scottworth has recently 
changed its name to Cashco Midlands Limited. But for simplicity I will refer to the responsible 
business as Scottworth.
The information on which I am basing my findings has been provided by the company that 
took over responsibility for Mr S's borrowing in October 2014. It has provided us with details 
of 26 loans that Mr S has taken from Scottworth. But in its submission it has said that it 
thinks Mr S took an additional loan, although it doesn't have any details. My decision will 
only deal with the 26 loans that have been identified. I cannot deal with the final loan that 
might have been lent without evidence of that lending.
The loans that Mr S took from Scottworth fell into two distinct chains. He was given 19 loans 
between May 2011 and February 2013. There was then a gap of around 15 months before 
Mr S started borrowing again. He took a further 7 loans between May and October 2014. In 
each chain the amount that Mr S borrowed steadily increased. All the loans that form part of 
this complaint have been fully repaid.
Mr S's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Scottworth 
shouldn't have given loans 7 to 19 or loan 26 to Mr S. She asked Scottworth to pay Mr S 
some compensation.
As I said earlier, Scottworth didn't reply to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process. If Mr S accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Scottworth needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Scottworth should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Scottworth was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Scottworth did some checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it verified that information by asking Mr S for copies of his bank 
statements and payslips. 
I think the checks that I have described above were proportionate for all of the loans that 
Scottworth gave to Mr S. And looking at the results of the checks I don't think they showed 
anything that would suggest that Mr S shouldn't be given the loans. So I don't think, in the 
initial stages of each chain of lending, Scottworth was wrong to lend to Mr S. So I don't 
uphold his complaint about loans 1 to 6 or loans 20 to 25.
But looking at the overall pattern of Scottworth's lending history with Mr S I think by loan 7 
the lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Scottworth should have realised that it shouldnt provide further loans.
This was now Mr Ss seventh loan request in just over six months. He had taken a loan 
every month since he started to borrow with new loans being taken either just before or just 
after a previous loan was repaid. The amounts that Mr S asked to borrow had steadily 
increased with his seventh loan being more than double what he borrowed at the start. I 
think that pattern of frequent borrowing and increasing loan amounts should have indicated 
to Scottworth that Mr S was most likely having significant problems managing his money. Between loan 6 and loan 19 Mr S's borrowing pattern largely continued with him taking new 
loans shortly before his previous loan was repaid. And the amounts he was asking to borrow 
continued to increase. So Scottworth ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S 
was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I have considered that there was a gap of around three months between loans 9 and 10. But 
given what had gone before I don't think that gap was anywhere near long enough to give 
Scottworth any confidence that Mr S's finances had returned to a more stable footing.
But as I said earlier, Mr S didn't borrow from Scottworth for around 15 months between loans 
19 and 20. I do think that gap was long enough for Scottworth to conclude that Mr S had 
overcome whatever problems he had previously faced with his finances. So I think it was 
entitled to treat him as a new customer and base its checks accordingly. And that is the 
reason I don't think it was wrong for Scottworth to give loans 20 to 25 to Mr S.
But by the time Mr S asked for loan 26 I think Scottworth should have realised that Mr S had 
once again become dependent on its lending and so declined that application. As before 
Mr S had taken a new loan each month for a period of five months. And the amount he was 
borrowing had increased from £200 to £750. I think that pattern should again have shown 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.
So in summary, I don't think Scottworth should have given loans 7 to 19 or loan 26 to Mr S. 
Scottworth needs to pay Mr S some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Scottworth should have agreed to give Mr S loans 7 (taken on 26 October 2011) 
to 19 (taken on 26 February 2013) or loan 26 (taken on 28 October 2014). So for each of 
those loans Scottworth should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr S on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans taken from loans 7 to 19 and before loan 26 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 to 19, and 
loan 26 should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Scottworth to take off tax from this interest. Scottworth 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Scottworth Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman