DRN-2352017
The complaint
Mr W complains Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. 
 
What happened
Mr W renewed a motor insurance policy with Highway on 30 July 2017. 
In August 2017, Highway said the information given to them during the renewal process 
didnt match the information theyd found on a central database called the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange. So, they contacted Mr Ws broker for further information, which was 
provided several days later. 
Highway said Mr W had disclosed three previous claims from 2013, 2014 and 2015. 
However, he hadnt disclosed a claim from 2017. When they contacted Mr W about this, he 
said the claim from 2017 involved his other car and he wasnt aware he needed to disclose 
this on the car insured with Highway. He also said he didnt have a chance to review the 
information provided to him by his broker before the policy start date. 
Highway said Mr W hadnt disclosed an additional claim, despite being asked about previous 
claims on the renewal document. They considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled them to avoid Mr Ws policy. Highway cancelled Mr Ws 
policy and returned a pro-rata refund of premiums to him  rather than avoiding the policy  
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr W wasnt happy and raised a complaint. As a resolution, he wanted Highway to remove 
the cancellation from his record, as this was making it difficult for him to find other insurance 
and impacted his job. But Highway maintained theyd acted fairly by following their 
underwriting criteria and relevant law. 
Mr W brought a complaint to our service. An investigator initially thought it should be upheld. 
Whilst he didnt think Highway acted unfairly, he felt a reasonable outcome would be for 
Highway to remove the cancellation from Mr Ws record. He said this was because the 2014 
claim Mr W did disclose would have been discounted from underwriting criteria roughly 36 
hours after the policy start date. 
Mr W accepted this, but Highway didnt. They said had Mr W disclosed the 2017 claim, they 
never would have offered him a policy. They maintained theyd applied their underwriting 
criteria fairly. 
Our investigator considered this and reviewed his initial assessment. Following this, he said 
he didnt think Highway had acted unfairly and therefore didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case, so its 
now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show they would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the customer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Highway thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he didnt disclose the 2017 claim when renewing his policy in July 2017. 
Ive gone onto look at the renewal invitation which says the following: 
Accidents and losses 
Please show below any accidents, thefts or losses (irrespective of blame and 
whether a claim resulted) which you or any other person who will drive have been 
involved in within the past 5 years.
The renewal invitation also goes onto provide a Duty of Disclosure statement which sets out 
that the information, statements or answers made by Mr W to the broker or insurer must be 
correct. And that any failure to disclose facts material to the insurance may invalidate the 
insurance cover in part or in whole. 
The renewal document showed Mr W had claims in 2013, 2014 and 2015. 
Mr W said hed made a mistake by not letting his broker or Highway know that the claim he 
made in 2017 wasnt shown on the renewal document. He said he didnt think he needed to 
disclose this, as the claim was in relation to another vehicle he had with a different insurer. 
He also said hed not had time to check the information given to him by his broker. And that 
the previous claims werent his fault. 
Ive considered this, but I think Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
representation by failing to disclose the 2017 claim. 
Highway have provided a copy of their underwriting criteria to show they would have acted 
differently had Mr W disclosed the 2017 claim. Ive considered this, and Im satisfied that had 
Mr W disclosed the 2017 claim, Highway would have never offered Mr W the policy. So, Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Highway classed the misrepresentation as careless. This is because Mr W said it was a 
mistake and he didnt think he needed to mention the claim from 2017. I think this 
classification of the misrepresentation is correct, as Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr W 
deliberately or recklessly withheld this information, and  in any event  Highway hasnt 
suggested this was the case. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ws representation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the remedies available to Highway under CIDRA. Highway were entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy 
(treat it as if it had never existed) and return the premiums. However, they decided to cancel 
Mr Ws policy instead from a later date, provide a pro-rata refund of premiums and not 
record the policy as cancelled on external databases as a gesture of goodwill. But they told 
Mr W hed need to disclose the cancellation to future insurers should the question be asked. 
I dont think Highways approach was in line with CIDRA, as the only option they had was to 
avoid Mr Ws policy. However, Mr W hasnt complained that Highway cancelled his policy as 
opposed to avoiding it. His complaint is that Highway shouldnt have taken any action as a 
result of his failure to point out the 2017 claim was missing from his renewal document. And 
he thinks Highway should remove the cancellation from his record given this was a result of 
a genuine mistake on his part. 
But, as Ive explained, Highway could have gone further and avoided Mr Ws policy, which 
could be considered worse for Mr W, as then hed have an avoidance on his record, as 
opposed to a cancellation. In the circumstances, I dont think its appropriate for me to tell 
Highway to remove the cancellation from Mr Ws record. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr W as Ive seen the impact this has had on 
him  and will potentially have when looking for future insurance. I also note our investigator 
initially upheld the complaint as the 2014 claim was due to drop off Highways underwriting 
criteria shortly after the policy start date. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont require 
Highway to do anything as part of this complaint. My decision ends what we  in attempting 
to resolve Mr Ws dispute with Highway  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman