DRN-1632571
The complaint
Ms T and Mr M have complained about the way Santander UK plc handled a payment they 
wanted to make from their account and the length of time Ms T needed to spend on the 
phone to sort it out. While the complaint is about a joint account and we have consent from 
both holders of the account, it only involves Ms T. Thats why my decision below only refers 
to Ms T. 
What happened
On 6 September 2019, Ms T made two payments from the joint account she held with Mr M. 
One of these payments was for £250 and the other for £8,500. Ms T says she expected 
some form of security check given the amounts involved. She received some text messages 
to verify the payments and replied to confirm them. She then received a text from Santander 
which said Thank you for confirming this transaction as genuine. This payment has now left 
your account so you dont need to make it again.
Later the same day, the proposed recipient of the money contacted Ms T to say that the 
£8,500 had not arrived. Ms T checked her online account and could see it was still pending. 
She phoned Santander to sort the payment out. She was overseas at the time and was 
upset about the amount of time she had to spend on the phone and the amount the phone 
call cost her. She explained this to the Santander representatives during the call. In her 
complaint she says the call lasted 38 minutes and cost her £57. 
Ms T complained about four things:
The text message told her that the payment had been made when it actually hadnt
The operator couldnt answer Ms Ts question and had to transfer her to someone in 
the security team
Ms T asked the operator to call her back instead of putting her on hold and the 
operator wouldnt
The length of the phone call given that she had already answered security questions 
by text while she was waiting to speak to the operator. 
 
Ms T complained to Santander who said they had done nothing wrong and credited her 
account with £25 towards her call costs as a goodwill gesture. Ms T was unhappy with this 
outcome and said she wanted the full £57 refunded to her and she wanted an apology.
Our investigator looked at Ms Ts complaint and said she didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. She said it was reasonable for Santander to conduct additional checks 
(which are a regulatory requirement) and that she didnt think the phone call was any longer 
than it needed to be. 
Ms T wasnt happy with this view and wanted an ombudsman to look at it. In her reply to our 
investigators view, Ms T said that if she had received a text telling her further checks 
needed to be done instead of a text telling her the payment had left the account she would 
have waited for Santander to call her and so wouldnt have incurred the call costs. I followed 
up with Ms T to clarify this point before I made the decision set out below. She reiterated that she wouldnt have incurred the costs of the phone call if Santander had been clear about 
what was going on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Santander havent done anything wrong and that Santander 
dont need to pay any further compensation to Ms T - Ill explain why.
Its clear that Ms T was aware that Santander would carry out some security checks on the 
payments she made on 6 September. She hasnt complained about the checks but about 
Santander not being clear about the checks. Unfortunately I think much of the problem has 
happened because Ms T was making two payments at the same time. When she received a 
text message saying that the payment had left her account it seems she assumed it applied 
to both payments. 
Ms T says she wouldnt have called Santander if they had messaged her to tell her that they 
were doing further checks  instead she would have waited for them to call her. But its not 
part of Santanders normal process to send messages to customers about further checks on 
payments. I dont think this is unfair or unreasonable as Santanders terms and conditions 
state that payments may be delayed while fraud prevention checks take place. And I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Santander to recognise that Ms T was making two payments 
at the same time and to anticipate that their automated text message system might cause 
confusion in that instance. 
Ms T was also upset about how long her call to Santander took. It seems this was an issue 
mostly because she was overseas at the time which meant that her call was more expensive 
than if she had been at home. I have listened to Ms Ts call and its clear she was frustrated 
at having been on hold for a long time before speaking to an operator, about having to 
answer security questions from the operator when she felt she had already answered them 
whilst on hold, and at being passed on to the security team and then being asked several 
more security questions before the payment was eventually made. 
Having listened to the call, I think the representatives who spoke to Ms T were following 
Santanders process for verification and I dont think they did anything wrong. I know Ms T 
asked if the operator could call her back instead of placing her on hold and the operator was 
apologetic in saying that she couldnt. The operator was clear that she didnt have the facility 
to call Ms T back  so I dont think this was unfair or unreasonable.
Its unfortunate that Ms T was incurring additional call costs at the time this happened, but I 
dont think Santander can be held responsible for that. 
In summary, I think Santander have followed their normal process for fraud prevention and I 
cant see that this was unfair or unreasonable in Ms Ts case. So I am not upholding Ms Ts 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2020.Clare King
Ombudsman