DRN-3809142
The complaint
Mr G and Ms R are unhappy with the service they received from The Royal Bank of Scotland 
PLC (RBS) surrounding the cancelling of their accounts in error.
What happened
RBS received and accepted a balance repayment offer from a debt charity regarding Mr G 
and Ms Rs account. As a result, RBS began the process to remove the overdraft facility 
from the account and transfer the account to their collections department. However, 
approximately ten days later, Mr G and Ms R contacted RBS and confirmed that they didnt 
want to proceed via the debt charity route, which meant that RBS should have stopped the 
process theyd begun when they were contacted by the debt charity. But RBS didnt stop that 
process, and this resulted in Mr G and Ms Rs account being effectively closed to them for 
further use. Mr G and Ms R werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Mr G and Ms Rs complaint. They acknowledged theyd made an error and 
they reinstated the account to the correct position. RBS also apologised to Mr G and Ms R 
and made payments totalling £250 to them as compensation for any trouble and upset theyd 
incurred. Mr G and Ms R werent satisfied with RBSs response, so they referred their 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that RBS had 
issued to Mr G and Ms Rs complaint already represented a fair and reasonable outcome to 
what had happened. Mr G and Ms R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS dont dispute they made an error by following the process they did here. This included 
removing the agreed overdraft facility on the account, which because the account balance 
was largely maintained by Mr G and Ms R in an overdrawn position, meant this effectively 
closed the account to continuing use for Mr G and Ms R.
In circumstances like this, it would be expected by this service that RBS would take the 
corrective steps necessary to put the account back into the position it should be in, as well 
as pay compensation to Mr G and Ms R for the trouble theyve experienced and cover any 
losses the account holders may have incurred as a direct result of the banks mistake. 
RBS appear to have done that here. Theyve reinstated the account, including the overdraft 
facility, and apologised to Mr G and Ms R for what happened. Additionally, RBS have made 
compensation payments to Mr G and Ms R totalling £250, and have also offered to consider 
any losses incurred by Mr G and Ms R resulting from the account cancelation, dependent on 
Mr G and Ms R providing proof of those losses. 
This seems reasonable to me, and RBSs actions mirror the instructions I would have issued 
to RBS, had they not already acted as theyve done. 
Im aware that Mr G and Ms R feel that RBSs actions directly led to them not being able to 
re-mortgage their property at a favourable rate, and I note several pieces of information 
theyve provided in support of their position. However, there are many reasons that a 
mortgage or re-mortgage attempt may encounter problems, and so in order for me to 
consider instructing RBS to compensate them for any potential loss in this regard, Id need to 
be convinced that it was RBSs actions  and solely RBSs actions  that led to Mr G and Ms 
R not being able to re-mortgage their property as they would like.
I hope that Mr G and Ms R will understand here that, having considered all the information 
provided by them, I dont feel it can be reasonably concluded that the reason they werent 
able to obtain the re-mortgage they wanted was solely because of RBSs actions. 
One reason for this is that the re-mortgage process was still in the application stage, with 
further checks needing to be undertaken by the mortgage provider before any definite re-
mortgage offer would be issued. As such, I dont feel that it can fairly be said that Mr G and 
Ms R would definitely have received a concrete offer from the mortgage provider, because I 
dont feel that its been shown with sufficient certainty that they would have passed the 
further checks that the mortgage provider needed to undertake without any issue.
Mr G and Ms R have also explained how they were concerned that their monthly direct 
debits wouldnt be paid during the time they were unable to use their account, and also 
about how, because these events happened around the Christmas period, they were unable 
to buy presents and unable to pay for their daughter to go on a school holiday, as well as 
being unable to book a family holiday they were considering at that time.
However, its notable from the account statements that the majority of the direct debits were 
paid and that the balance of the account was maintained relatively close to the agreed 
overdraft limit. Indeed, after wages were received into the account, and after the monthly 
payments were paid from it, there was only approximately £300 available balance remaining 
for Mr G and Ms R to spend, in regard to the agreed overdraft limit. And as such, Im not 
convinced that Mr G and Ms R would have been able to undertake the spending on the 
account that they describe here, even if the account had still been available to them.
Mr G and Ms R dont feel that the £250 already paid to them by RBS fairly compensates 
them for the impact that these events have had on them here. I can understand how they 
might feel this way, and I acknowledge that matters of compensation can be subjective. 
However, given the full circumstances of this complaint, the £250 compensation amount 
does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would have 
instructed RBS to pay, had they not already done so.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the impact these events had on Mr G and Ms R, 
including in regard to the time that the events occurred and the spending facility that Mr G 
and Ms R were deprived of. Ive also considered the framework within which this service 
operates in regard to matters of compensation, further details of which can be found on our 
website. And having done so, I feel that £250 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr G and Ms R were wanting, but it follows from the 
above that I dont feel that RBS need to take any further action here, and so I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I hope theyll understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman