DRN-2662119
The complaint
Mrs P and Ms S, as executrices of the estate of Mrs C (their mother) complain that they
werent notified of an account  held in their mothers and brothers (Mr Cs) name  by
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (the business), when they had Lasting
Power of Attorney (LPA).
They would like the business to provide details of this account  from when they first 
supplied it with the LPA  now held in Mr Cs sole name.
  
What happened
 In my provisional decision of 3 February 2021, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. In summary, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business failing to disclose the
existence of the joint account held in Mrs C and Mr Cs name, after it was supplied with the
LPA in 2013, is a mistake. Therefore, I think the business should award the estate of Mrs C 
£250 compensation for any inconvenience caused by the error.
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the
executrices strength of feeling about this matter. Once again, Im very sorry for the loss of
their mother in 2017. I recognise this must be a difficult time for them.
Theyve provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the executrices and the business, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Previously, in my jurisdiction decision, I said that the complaint brought by the executrices on
behalf of Mrs C about the business failure to disclose the existence of the joint account 
held in Mrs Cs and Mr Cs name  is something we can consider.
In other words, I think the complaint about the business failure to record the LPA on the joint
account, leading to its non-disclosure, is something we can consider. However, the
complaint about the business failure to share the account details  which includes access to
all statements, irrespective of whether its in relation to the details in 2013 or now  currently
held in Mr Cs sole name, in the absence of consent from him, isnt something we can
consider. So thats why I can only consider the business failing to disclose the existence of 
the joint account rather than any account details.
In my opinion it seems the business was under a (legal) duty to disclose the joint account
along with any other accounts and investments that Mrs C held with it  in 2013  when it
was first provided with the LPA, or thereafter, but failed to do so. Whilst Im unable to safely
say that the business deliberately withheld the existence of the joint account, its not clear
why it couldnt find it in 2013. In any case, Im unable to safely say that it took any
reasonable steps to notify Mrs P and Ms S in line with its obligations under the LPA.
I note that it was only by chance in 2019 that the executrices former sister-in-law disclosed a
letter that was addressed to the executors and Mr C  concerning the joint account  which
would otherwise have (probably) been missed.
If the disclosure had been made sooner, when Mrs P and Ms S were appointed under the
LPA and this was provided to the business, the estate wouldve been aware and is likely to
have taken steps to address the existence of the account  as part of dealing with Mrs Cs
overall estate  if this hadnt already been done. However, Im unable to say if this wouldve 
had a material impact on the estate.
In the circumstances Im minded to agree with the investigator that the only redress available
to me in this situation is compensation, to be paid to the estate of Mrs C, for it not having
previously disclosed information to Mrs P and Ms S under the LPA  between 2013 and
2017  which would then have been available to the estate at the time of Mrs Cs death.
For the reasons set out above, I think the business should pay the estate of Mrs C £250
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ive no doubt that the executrices will have (personally) been caused a significant amount of
distress and inconvenience dealing with this matter including the discovery of the account
jointly held by Mrs C and their brother Mr C, in 2019, and previously undisclosed. But despite
this, as representatives of the estate, Im unable to award any compensation directly to 
them.
I appreciate that theres been some correspondence between the executrices and Mr C 
but the executrices are no closer to finding out details of the account. Im sorry to hear the
problems this has caused for their family. As Ive mentioned earlier this isnt an aspect of the
complaint I can consider.
Despite my upholding the complaint, I understand that the executrices will be disappointed 
with the outcome.
The business didnt respond to my provisional decision.  
Mrs P responded but didnt agree with the provisional decision. She provided the following 
response:
It is stated that myself and my sister are not customers of the business, however my sister 
Ms S (name anonymised), has a share account with H.L. with a substantial amount of 
shares, I believe in the region of over £100,000. How does this affect your findings please?
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Despite Mrs Ps response, I dont consider that any new points have been raised and the key 
points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision 
therefore I still think the only redress available to me in this situation is compensation, to be 
paid to the estate of Mrs C, for it not having previously disclosed information to Mrs P and 
Ms S under the LPA  between 2013 and 2017  which would then have been available to 
the estate at the time of Mrs Cs death.
In the circumstances, I think the business should pay the estate of Mrs C £250 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
The short answer to Mrs Ps question  about how her sister having an account with the 
business effects my decision  is that it doesnt. 
Ms S having an account with the business  regardless of the amount of money invested  
doesnt change my earlier jurisdiction decision or my current decision because its not 
relevant. 
Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay the estate of Mrs C £250
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay the estate of Mrs C the 
redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman