DRN-3716200
The complaint
Mr S has complained Cater Allen Limited made a payment from his SIPP bank account 
without the appropriate authority.
What happened
Mr S holds a SIPP account with Cater Allen. The account is held in both Mr Ss name and 
his pension trustees (who Ill call D). The mandate confirms both Mr S and the corporate 
trustee (a representative of D) need to authorise payments from the account.
A payment for £11,150 was made from Mr Ss account with Cater Allen in July 2021. In fact 
two identical payments were made but a duplicate was returned. Mr S hadnt authorised this 
payment in accordance with the mandate for the use of this account. He complained to Cater 
Allen who didnt believe theyd done anything wrong. Mr S brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator could see the £11,150 was payment for a debt on a property held as a 
pension investment. As Mr S had not had any financial loss, she wasnt going to ask Cater 
Allen to do anything further.
Mr S disagreed strongly and felt wed acted against existing banking law. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr S believes there is only one issue at the heart of this complaint. Did Cater Allen breach 
the mandate for his account with D? Ive reviewed the mandate and the letter D sent to Cater 
Allen asking them to make a payment of £11,150 to settle a debt.
I agree with Mr S that it appears this payment was sent without his authority. This runs 
counter to the mandate lodged with Cater Allen in July 2011.
However I disagree with Mr S that this is all the case is about.
Its clear Mr S and D are in dispute on some issues. D has shown us letters they sent to him 
in 2021. They never received any response. These show Mr S being informed of a debt of 
nearly £11,150 which D believed it was necessary to pay to avoid further legal action.
Im aware Mr S disputes Ds understanding of the debt and that it was owed by him. But I 
can see why D felt otherwise.
Cater Allen took a risk-based decision to make a payment without the required mandate. Im 
aware Mr S believes that banking law would support his understanding. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
However Im not obliged to follow the same approach as a court would. In this case Im not 
going to ask Cater Allen to do anything further as Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show 
this debt didnt belong to Mr S and his pension investment.
Mr S is not obliged to accept this decision and can decide to let the courts decide his 
complaint. That is, of course, up to him, but this decision marks the end of our services 
involvement in his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Cater 
Allen Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman