DRN-2284299
The complaint
Mr R complains as a director of a limited company, R, that Allianz Insurance Plc has rejected 
Rs claim for malicious damage under its commercial Landlord Insurance policy
What happened
Mr R let out his property through his company R. In January 2019 a tenancy agreement was 
put in place through the letting agents. The agents carried out the necessary vetting of the 
tenant and were responsible for inspections. A satisfactory inspection took place in April 
2019. No further inspections were carried out although the agents did attempt to carry out 
inspections twice in December 2019 and once in January 2020.
In February 2020 the police raided the premises and it was discovered that a cannabis farm 
had been set up, causing substantial damage to the property. R made a claim to Allianz, 
who appointed loss adjusters. They arranged to carry out the initial clean out of the property 
and disposal of the cannabis farm and plants. Mr R was asked for further information, 
including the records of inspections, tenants vetting, and the tenancy agreement. Further 
work on the property was put on hold while these checks were carried out.
Allianz decided it wouldnt pay the claim. It pointed out that under the policy terms, a claim 
for loss or damage wasnt covered unless certain checks were carried out on the tenants 
status and that regular inspections had to take place at least every three months or in 
accordance with the tenancy agreement. Allianz said that Mr R had failed to produce 
documents evidencing the vetting of the tenant. Further no inspections had happened after 
April 2019 and no evidence of the attempts to inspect the property in December and January 
had been produced.
R responded through its solicitor that the only issue was the inspections and that R had 
made reasonable attempts to inspect the property. It said that Mr R or the agents couldnt be 
expected to force their way into the property. And that the breach of the inspection 
requirement wasnt relevant to the claim. Allianz said that the landlord was entitled to carry 
out inspections and only had to give notice. It noted that no external inspections had taken 
place. It believed the failure to inspect was linked to the damage caused.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Allianz had acted reasonably.
In response Mr R said that Allianz had accepted the claim by clearing out the property. 
Allianz had also left large rubbish sacks outside the property for months, with the parts of the 
cannabis factory and cannabis plants showing. He said those caused damage to his 
reputation. He also said all the necessary evidence had been produced and that he wasnt 
able to breach the tenants right to quiet enjoyment of the property. Allianz said that no 
cannabis plants or parts of the factory were on display, the bags had contained only soil and 
rubble, as shown in the photos. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The damage caused by running a cannabis farm from the property comes under the 
malicious damage cover in the policy. But the following exclusion applies:
Loss or Damage arising out of the illegal manufacture, cultivation, harvest or processing of 
drugs if You or Your Agent do not
i. Carry out internal and external inspections of Your Premises at least every 3 months or as 
permitted under the tenancy agreement and
(1) maintain a log of such inspections and retain that log for at least 24 months
(2) carry out an audit of the inspections log at no less than six monthly intervals.
The exclusion goes on to list a number of requirements for vetting the tenant.
In this case, apart from Mr Rs assertion that the agents had carried out satisfactory vetting 
no evidence was produced of the actual vetting done. In respect of the inspections, a report 
from April 2019 was produced, indicating a satisfactory inspection. No further inspections 
were carried out, although the agents asserted that they had tried to carry out inspections 
twice in December 2019 and once in January 2020. Again no evidence was produced of 
these attempts.
I think it reasonable for Allianz to ask for documentary evidence of inspections and the 
vetting of tenants. I note that the agents were contacted and refused to supply the 
information. But even if it is accepted that satisfactory vetting took place, the evidence is that 
no inspections or attempts to inspect took place for eight months. And no external 
inspections appear to have been attempted. The tenancy agreement doesnt set out a 
specific time period for inspections but merely allows for 24 hours notice.
To take Mr Rs solicitors point that the tenant is allowed quiet enjoyment of the premises the 
tenancy agreement says this should be afforded except after giving 24 hours notice in 
writing to legally carry out any of the landlords rights and obligations contained in the 
agreement. And I dont accept the assertion that the landlord could only enter the premises 
in an emergency. R had rights under the tenancy agreement to enable it to comply with its 
obligation under the policy. So I think R was in breach of the requirements set out for the 
exclusion not to apply. 
Rs solicitors asserted that section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 applies which says the 
insurer may not rely on non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability if an 
insured:
(3) shows that the non-compliance with the term could not have increased the risk of the 
loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred 
Here there were no inspections carried out for eight months and it seems highly likely that 
the cannabis production equipment was installed in that time. Had the agents inspected in 
July and October as required its likely the damage to the property would have been noticed, 
or if the tenants had refused inspections, steps could have been taken to gain entry. So I 
think that the non-compliance clearly increased the risk of the loss. 
Mr R asserts that the claim was accepted by Allianz because it arranged the clear-out of the 
property. I dont think that shows the claim was accepted. The equipment and debris needed 
to be cleared out and a prompt removal of it mitigated any further damage. This was 
preliminary work and the loss adjusters report makes clear that it was waiting details of the exact circumstances of the discovery and of the tenancy agreement. Ive seen no indication 
that R acted to its detriment in believing the claim had been accepted.
Finally Mr R says that rubbish bags were left outside, showing cannabis equipment and 
cannabis plants. He asserts that this caused damage to his reputation and devalued the 
property. Allianz said the bags contained soil and rubble and the photos show that to be the 
case. I understand that the bags were outside for a couple of months. Whilst it may have 
been inconvenient to have the bags outside, I havent seen any documentary evidence that 
cannabis plants or equipment were on display. Any loss in value to the property is likely to 
be as a result of the cannabis farm being set up in it rather than the removal of the 
equipment and plants. And I have to bear in mind that the policy is in the name of R and 
Allianzs liability is to the company rather than Mr R personally. 
Overall I think that Allianz has shown the exclusion to the malicious damage cover in the 
policy applied and that R through its agents was in breach of it. This in my view increased 
the risk of the damage/loss occurring, so Allianz acted reasonably in declining the claim.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman