DRN-1613834
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr W responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). Mr W says he wasnt provided with these guidelines, 
but I think it is likely he was provided with VWFSs vehicle return standard that would 
be based on these guidelines. And, even if that wasnt the case, the contract 
explained that the car would need to be returned in a good condition and the industry 
guidelines for establishing that condition would always be those provided by the 
BVRLA.
Mr W says VWFS have taken no account of the age of his car when it was returned. 
But this was a new vehicle when supplied so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
there to have been any damage at that point and, if any damage had been incurred 
subsequently that was beyond what could reasonably be considered wear and tear, I 
would think it fair to ask Mr W to put it right so that the car could be returned in the 
correct condition. 
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The scratch to the rear bumper is clearly through the 
paint coat and the primer and, in those circumstances, the BVRLA guidance says its 
beyond wear and tear and is chargeable. Theres no specific guidance provided by 
the BVRLA about whether charges should be made when panels are misaligned. But 
I dont think its unreasonable for VWFS to levy a charge as the misaligned bumper is 
clearly not acceptable and the £9 charge to realign it is negligible.
So, I dont think VWFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman