DRN-2291653
The complaint
Ms C complains about the information she was given by Skipton Building Society (Skipton) 
when she applied for consent to let her property. 
What happened
Ms C had a mortgage with Skipton on a property she lived in. In October 2019 she was 
offered a job abroad so decided to rent out her property. She contacted Skipton to discuss 
this and was told that once she had a tenant secured, she could book an appointment to 
change her mortgage.
Once Ms C secured a tenancy agreement, she contacted Skipton again. She was then told 
that her mortgage rate would increase by 1% due to the increased risk of having tenants 
occupying the property. She complained to Skipton about this as she hadnt been told about 
the rate increase when she first made contact. As a resolution, she offered to pay the entire 
amount of the mortgage payments for the following year up front to reduce Skiptons risk, but 
it didnt agree to this.
In its final response to Ms C, Skipton agreed it shouldve told her about the interest rate 
increase and its £70 admin fee if her property was to be let out. But it said she had been 
provided with the mortgage tariff of charges on a number of occasions which details both the 
rate increases and the admin fee. It offered £100 compensation for the fact that it didnt 
mention these in the first call with Ms C.
Ms C didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into it. He didnt think Skipton has caused Ms C a financial loss and 
agreed the £100 for not giving her complete information in the initial phone call was fair. Ms 
C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So its been passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms C first contacted Skipton, it seems she was in the early stages of renting her 
property and was trying to find out about the process for doing so. She was correctly told 
that she would need a tenancy agreement and then to speak with an advisor. She wasnt 
told about the rate increase of the admin fee for changing the mortgage. I understand why 
she would have liked to have been given more information at this time, and Skipton has 
agreed she shouldve been. 
However, it seems to me that this was an initial enquiry. I dont think its reasonable to 
expect all relevant information had been provided at this point given it had been made clear 
a future meeting would be needed. Furthermore, Ms C says she was aware the mortgage 
terms did say that the rate would be increased by 1% if the property was let. And that she 
called to see if this was still current. Based on this, I think it wouldve been reasonable of her 
to ask this specific question rather than assume that because she wasnt told about it, this 
had been changed. I note that she had been sent the mortgage tariff of charges when she 
first took the mortgage, and a number of times since, which mentioned the increase in rate 
and the admin fee. So I dont think they shouldve been a complete surprise. 
That said, ideally Skipton wouldve told her about this increase in the first call. And as Ive 
said Skipton agrees with this which is why its offered £100. But Ms C doesnt accept this 
and says she shes suffered a financial loss because of the lack of information. Specifically, 
she says she wouldve rented her property for more had she known about the increase. Ive 
gone on to consider this.
Ms C says she wouldve increased the amount of rent she was charging, but Im not 
persuaded that she wouldve been able to do so. In my experience, rental amounts are 
decided based on what tenants would be willing to pay rather than the mortgage payment. It 
would be in the interest of both the borrower and the letting agent to obtain the best monthly 
price they could, regardless of the mortgage payment. It seems to me Ms C is making the 
argument that she couldve got more but chose not to because she believed the mortgage 
payment would be lower. However, the tenancy shed agreed hadnt started by the time she 
was aware of the increased rate. So it seems to me she couldve still gone back to increase 
the amount she was asking for. Based on this, Im not persuaded Ms C couldve obtained a 
higher monthly rental income if Skipton had told her about the increase in interest rate.
In summary, whilst it wouldve been ideal had Skipton told Ms C about the increase in 
interest rate if she rented out her property, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation is 
suitable in these circumstances. Skipton had provided this information to her previously 
though, and it hadnt given her any information which would suggest this was no longer the 
case. For the reasons above, it follows that I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
For completeness, I have considered Ms Cs point about her offer to pay the following years 
worth of mortgage payments up front to reduce Skiptons risk. Im satisfied Skipton 
considered this but wasnt willing to agree to it as its mortgage operation is based on 
payments being collected monthly. This is largely standard within the industry, and Im 
satisfied Skipton was entitled to decline this request.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman