DRN-2335469
The Complaint
Ms H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Ms H took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Ms H. It has accepted 
the information it gave Ms H about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has now offered to pay her £700 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused as a result of this. 
Ms H hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Ms Hs 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost or how it should calculate risk. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a 
business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Hs 
policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the policy or that she should be 
charged less in the future.
I know Ms H is frustrated RSA havent provided her with a more detailed breakdown of why 
her premium increased. The calculations a business uses to work out its premiums is 
commercially sensitive information and is kept confidential by them - and by us - as there is 
a possibility if it was shared it would affect the businesses ability to work competitively. I can 
assure Ms H I have carefully reviewed it and I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA 
has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the same 
position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going forwards.
I understand Ms H will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome she had hoped for. 
I recognise that the situation has caused her significant upset. Due to the medical conditions 
her dog now has, she is unlikely to find cover for this elsewhere. And I recognise the likely 
continuing increases in the premium in future years means she may not be able to afford to 
continue with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Ms H the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out. It is not my role to punish RSA. 
I know Ms H says had she been told her premiums could rise by the amount they did, she 
wouldnt have taken the policy. But its difficult to know what Ms H would have done at the 
time, without the benefit of hindsight  particularly as we now know that the amount she has 
claimed for is less than how much shes paid. She wouldnt have known that at the time  
which is the nature of insurance. 
Ms H chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And as 
she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly wanted the greater level of cover it 
provided. If Ms H hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and 
would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, where 
she would still have found herself in a situation where her pets conditions were no longer 
covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if 
shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
I recognise that its possible Ms H may have gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Ms H would have ended up with  it might 
have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I think its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Ms H paying 
a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking the same sort of factors into account when the premiums are calculated 
at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms H wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was aware could happen. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Ms H has experienced. 
And I think it fairly compensates Ms H.
I also note that Ms H doesnt think RSAs role in providing the insurance was made clear and 
she thought she was insuring with the brand name. Ms H applied for the policy online and I 
have seen copies of the screenshots used at the time that detail at the bottom of each page 
that the brand name were appointed representatives of RSA and that RSA were the 
underwriter. The policy summary provided also clearly sets this out. So I think it was made 
clear enough to Ms H that RSA were underwriting the policy. If Ms H is unhappy with the 
brand names choice of underwriter  she will need to address this with them directly. My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Ms H £700 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance should pay Ms H £700. I dont require it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman