DRN-3035613
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Northridge Finance 
that he signed in January 2020. There were some issues with the car in January and 
February 2020 but more significant issues occurred in August 2020. Mr C says that the 
handbrake wasnt working properly, the steering wheel was vibrating, the car was 
shuddering and then there was a loud noise from the engine which stopped working. The car 
was taken to the dealer and the job sheet refers to a timing chain issue, multiple faults and 
the car no longer starting. No work was done on the car and Mr C complained to Northridge 
Finance. 
It said that Mr C was required to prove that the engine issue was developing from the point 
of sale in January 2020 and that the car hadnt been deemed to be of unsatisfactory quality 
by any persons or body qualified to do so. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and recommended that Northridge Finance 
should: end the agreement; collect the car; refund Mr Cs deposit of £500, and monthly 
payments (and road tax and insurance) for the period from August 2020 when he was 
unable to use the car; pay interest on those amounts; and remove any adverse information 
from his credit file in relation to the agreement.
Northridge Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that the timing chain isnt a serviceable part and unpredictable issues can develop within the 
life of the car. It says that the car that was supplied to Mr C was around six years old and 
had completed 53,846 miles but the timing chain problem first manifested around eight 
months and 4,000 miles after supply. It says that it and the dealer didnt feel it was 
unreasonable to seek material evidence that might help establish if the issue was related to 
the supply of the car and that its not unreasonable to seek qualified documentary evidence 
in support of the car not being durable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Northridge Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr C was nearly six years old, had been driven for 
53,846 miles and had a price of £9,698;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
although there were some issues with the car in the first two months after it was 
supplied to Mr C, the significant issues which I consider are likely to have led to the 
engine failure didnt happen until August 2020  more than seven months after the 
car had been supplied to him  and its mileage at that time was 57,518; 
I consider this to be a finely balance complaint as Mr C was able to use the car for 
more than seven months before the engine failed, in that time he was able to drive 
the car for 3,672 miles and theres no independent evidence to show that there was 
an issue with the cars engine when it was supplied to Mr C or that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time;
but Mr C has referred to issues with the cars handbrake, steering and engine  its 
clear that theres a major engine fault (but theres no other evidence about the 
handbrake and steering issue) and I consider it to be reasonable to expect that a car 
with a price of £9,698 that was less than six years old and had been driven for 
53,846 miles when it was supplied to Mr C to be able to be used for longer than Mr C 
was able to use this car;
the car has been with the dealer since the engine failed in August 2020 but neither 
the dealer nor Northridge Finance have arranged for the car to be inspected to show 
whether or not it was likely that there was a fault with the engine when the car was 
supplied to Mr C  and I consider that it would be reasonable to expect Northridge 
Finance to have done more in these circumstances to investigate the fault;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was 
reasonable for Mr C to expect it to be and, for that reason, that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to allow Mr C to 
reject the car and to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Northridge Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the 
car to be collected from the dealer  both at no cost to Mr C. The invoice and the agreement 
show that Mr C made an advance payment of £500 for the car. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Northridge Finance to refund that deposit to Mr C, with interest.
Mr C was able to use the car between January 2020, when it was supplied to him, and 
August 2020, when its engine failed, but hes not been able to use it since then. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to refund to Mr C the monthly payments 
that hes made under the agreement for the period since the engine failed in August 2020, 
with interest. It can keep the payments that hes made for the period before then as payment 
for the use that hes had from the car. 
Our investigator recommended that Northridge Finance should reimburse Mr C for the road 
tax and insurance costs that hes incurred for the period since the cars engine failed. I agree 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to reimburse those amounts to 
him, with interest, but Mr C will need to provide evidence of those costs. I also find that it 
should also remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Cs credit file.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as 
Northridge Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from the 
dealer  both at no cost to Mr C.
2. Refund to Mr C the deposit of £500 that he paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mr C the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for 
the period since the engine failed in August 2020.
4. Reimburse Mr C for the road tax and insurance costs that hes incurred for the 
period since the cars engine failed, if he provides it with evidence of those costs.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Cs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Northridge Finance must give Mr C a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman