DRN-3658059
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc deemed his car to be a total loss following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the valuation it offered for 
his car and that it was further damaged after being recovered.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged by an unidentified driver and he made a claim. AXA said the car 
was beyond economical repair. It offered Mr S £2,173, less the policy excess, in settlement 
of his claim for the loss of his car. Mr S was unhappy with this and that it wouldnt repair his 
car. He wanted to retain it. But he said the car had been further damaged by the salvage 
agent. 
AXA offered Mr S £250 compensation for this and it said, if he preferred, it would buy back 
the salvage from him for £522. It also offered Mr S £150 compensation. But Mr S remained 
unhappy. He also provided his own engineers report valuing the car at £4,000 and stating 
that the car was repairable. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA 
had reasonably deemed the car a total loss because of the repair costs compared to the 
cars value. He thought AXA had offered Mr S the highest valuation provided by the guides 
we use. And he thought it had offered Mr S two reasonable options to compensate him for 
the further damage to his car. 
Mr S replied that the guides didnt provide valuations of his car because of its age. He said 
his car was in good repair, with low mileage and it was rare and collectible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect the loss of his car has had on Mr Ss finances and his 
health. I can understand that dealing with a claim can be very stressful. It was unfortunate 
for Mr S that his car was hit by another driver whilst it was parked, and the other driver hasnt 
been identified. As AXA hasnt been able to recover its outlay for the claim, a fault has been 
recorded against Mr S. 
I can see that Mr Ss policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
This is defined in the policy booklet as: 
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age, mileage and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
AXA offered Mr S £2,173 in settlement of his claim for the total loss of his car. Mr S told AXA 
that he would accept around £5,000. And he provided an engineers report that said the car 
was worth £4,000. This service has a specific approach to disagreements about car 
valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that AXA looked in three of the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ss car at the date of its loss. And it offered 
Mr S the highest of the valuations it found. I can see that the valuations took into account the 
correct date of loss and details of Mr Ss car. And I can see that no deductions were made 
for any reasons, such as pre-existing damage or condition. 
Mr Ss engineer wasnt able to find valuations for his car in two of the guides. But I can 
assure Mr S that the guides did provide them. Mr Ss engineer said the valuations only went 
back 12 years. But this isnt correct, as stated in his own report. The valuations are provided 
for 20 years. And so valuations were provided for Mr Ss car at the date of its loss which was 
within 20 years of its manufacture. I note that the engineer input the current date rather than 
the date of the incident, which has led to this confusion. 
Mr Ss engineer also discounted one of the guides we use. But its one we use to provide a 
range of valuations for consideration. And, although I note his reservations, we think it can 
be fairly used in valuations. In any case, AXA didnt rely on this guide in making its offer. 
Mr Ss engineer also provided examples of similar cars advertised for sale at higher prices. 
But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking 
prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
And so, as AXA made its valuations correctly according to our approach, Im satisfied that its 
settlement offer to Mr S was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S was unhappy that his car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. But Ive seen 
the engineering evidence provided by AXA that shows that the repair costs are more than 
60% of the cars value. And so it declared the car to be a Category N total loss. We think this 
is a reasonable approach as further damage may come to light when the car is stripped 
down for repair. I note that Mr Ss engineer provided a higher estimate for the repair costs. 
So I cant say that AXAs decision to not repair the car was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr Ss car was damaged by the recovery company. From what I can see, this occurred 
during the recovery process. Mr Ss engineer said this would cost £1,602.49 to repair. But I 
note that his estimate isnt itemised so I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to pay this. 
AXA has accepted that the car was further damaged whilst in its agents care. When a 
business makes a mistake, as AXA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the 
consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error 
had on the consumer. 
AXA has already paid Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset this caused. I think thats in 
keeping with our published guidance for the impact this had. And so I think thats fair and 
reasonable. 
AXA also gave Mr S two options to restore his position. It offered him £250 for the damage 
caused or it said it would buy back the salvage for £522 if Mr S no longer wanted to retain 
the car. I think that fairly restores Mr Ss position. And so I dont require AXA to do anything 
further. I can see that Mr S has raised further concerns about his service from AXA at renewal. But I 
cant see that he has first raised these with AXA to give it a chance to respond. So I cant 
comment on these concerns here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman