DRN-4149422
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd, trading as Fiat Financial Services, and who Ill call FCA.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our Service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the van should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCA, who are also the supplier of 
the van, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Mr K. The van here was 
brand-new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix a fault that is present when 
goods are supplied. I think its likely the issue with the suspension on this van was present 
when it was supplied. I say that because the manufacturers field technician has confirmed 
the noise is present when going over speed bumps and that it was also present on another 
car of the same make and model that he repeated the test with. It was his opinion that the 
issue couldnt be resolved, but he didnt dispute the noise was present, and I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect such a noise on a brand new vehicle.
I think that suggests this is a manufacturing issue, present on supply, and potentially present 
on all vans of this make and model, and that despite several attempts to repair, the fault has 
not been remedied.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation expects the business to allow rejection of the 
van, but it also allows the business to retain some of the finance instalments paid in respect 
of the use the consumer has had from the goods.
Here Mr K has been able to drive an appreciable distance in the van and his use doesnt 
appear to have been impaired too much other than there being an annoying squeak when 
travelling over speed bumps. In those circumstances, I think the investigators suggestion 
FCA should refund 5% of the finance instalments in respect of the impaired use Mr K has 
experienced is a fair one. 
I understand Mr K would like a replacement vehicle but its clear from the field technicians 
comments, that the technician feels the issue is a fault present on all vans of this make and 
model, so I dont think a replacement would resolve matters for Mr K, and the business dont 
have to replace the van with another similar one.
If Mr K accepts my decision the business will therefore need to collect the car, allow him to 
reject it and end the finance agreement he has with them and refund any deposit or part 
exchange that may have been paid. Theyll also need to refund 5% of any finance 
instalments Mr K has paid in respect of the impaired use hes had from the car. Mr K has 
had to return the car for investigations on several occasions and hes had to escalate his 
complaint to this Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier by FCA. In those 
circumstances FCA should pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
FCA should put things right in the way Ive set out above and detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FCA Automotive Services 
UK Ltd to:
Allow Mr K to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr K.
Refund any deposit or part exchange allowance and add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund 5% of all finance payments that have been made in respect of the impaired 
use Mr K has had from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr K £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ks credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman