DRN-4288623
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) poor 
handling of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S home suffered from a significant escape of water in 2019. It caused damage to 
several rooms. And they made a claim on their home insurance policy, that they held with 
RSA. 
Mr and Mrs S explain that following the escape of water, which was caused due to a burst 
pipe in their utility room, they experienced poor communication, poor standard of repairs and 
delays from RSA. Both parties are aware of the issues regarding this. And RSA ultimately 
accepted the poor standard of service, apologised and paid Mr and Mrs S £850 
compensation for the issues regarding their kitchen installation. In addition, it agreed to 
rectify and paid for all the remedial work required.
Also, Mr and Mrs S complained that the quality of the kitchen repairs hadnt been to an 
acceptable standard and ultimately led them to ask the contractors sent in by RSA, to leave 
from site. This led them to instruct their own assessor to assess the newly installed kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs S assessor concluded that the entire kitchen needed to be replaced. And Mr 
and Mrs S replaced the kitchen at a cost of £13,971.80 including VAT. This was at variance 
with RSAs independent assessor, who agreed there were issues with the kitchen, but said 
that they could be fixed. So, RSA paid Mr and Mrs S the amount to rectify the kitchen issues.  
Mr and Mrs S believed that the entire kitchen needed to be replaced as they concurred with 
their assessor and replaced the kitchen. They felt that RSA ought to reimburse them, so they 
referred a complaint to our service, when RSA didnt agree to reimburse them the full cost of 
the new kitchen. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that regarding the initial issues, RSA had accepted there were snagging issues and 
rectified those. As well as paying to replace some damaged items. Regarding the kitchen, 
RSA recognised that there were service failings and paid compensation of £850, which he 
said was fair. 
Ultimately, he said that RSA had reviewed all the information provided in Mr and Mrs Ss 
assessors report. And paid for the costs to rectify the kitchen. So, he felt that RSA ought not 
to reimburse the full cost of Mr and Mrs S new kitchen. 
RSA accepted the view, Mr and Mrs S did not. Essentially, they said that RSA had 
inadequately handled the issues regarding the kitchen. It failed to inspect the kitchen, after 
their contractor had issued the report. They disagreed with the £850 compensation as this 
didnt adequately reflect the impact of RSAs poor handling of the claim. They also pointed 
out that the garden table issue hadnt been resolved. So, they asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. Whilst I understand this is likely to be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments and evidence theyve provided. And having done so, 
I think the main issues of this complaint relate to how RSA handled the claim overall but 
more importantly, how it dealt with the installation of the kitchen. Also, whether RSA was fair 
in its offer of £850 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Finally, the issue of the 
garden table. So, Ive concentrated my findings on these areas. 
Dealing with the issue of the kitchen and garden table first. I note and can understand Mr 
and Mrs S frustration given their experience with RSAs contractors. So, Im pleased to see 
that the sink and white goods, that had been damaged, have now been replaced by RSA. 
However, there is the outstanding garden table. I asked RSA about this. It said that its 
contractor had used the table as a workbench. But there was no evidence to support that the 
table was damaged. But its contractors have agreed to pay for the table, as they did use it as 
a support, nevertheless there was no damage to it. The contractors have asked Mr and Mrs 
S for their supply details, so that they can pay for the table. 
Ive not been provided with enough evidence from Mr and Mrs S that the table was 
damaged. But as the contractors have agreed to replace it, then I would advise Mr and Mrs 
S to contact them directly, to resolve this issue. In the circumstances, I wont be asking RSA 
to do anything further here. 
Regarding the kitchen, from the evidence it is clear that Mr and Mrs S have complained 
about various issues with the installation of the kitchen. These ranged from the fridge and 
dishwasher damage  which RSA acknowledged and has since replaced those items. I have 
no evidence from Mr and Mrs S that this isnt the case, so Im satisfied that this has now 
been resolved. 
Mr and Mrs S said that there were live wires exposed from the hob and the oven was 
unprotected. I asked RSA about this as I understand how concerning this wouldve been. It 
confirmed that the wires were not live and hadnt been connected to the mains or the 
consumer unit. As I havent been provided with enough evidence from Mr and Mrs S to the 
contrary, Im satisfied that this no longer poses an issue. 
Mr and Mrs S also complained that the extractor hood had been installed with carpet tape. I 
asked RSA about this, and it said that the tape had been used temporarily to hold a hose in 
place and was removed once it needed to be. In addition, Mr and Mrs S also complained 
that the cooker hood had been incorrectly fitted. Again, I asked RSA for an explanation, it 
said that the installation had complied with current regulations. I havent been provided with 
any evidence from Mr and Mrs S, that indicates this not to be the case. So, Im satisfied that 
RSA had installed the hood in line with current regulations. Mr and Mrs S also raised issues with the fitting of various kitchen cabinets such as the doors 
not being aligned, the floor units and end panels not being correctly fitted, and the kitchen 
worktop not being glued to the floor units.  I asked RSA about these issues, and it said that 
these in effect were temporary installations, and they would be rectified on completion. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the standard of installing the kitchen. 
RSA appointed an independent assessor, and, on their recommendation, RSA made a 
payment to Mr and Mrs S. Despite this, Mr and Mrs S decided to have the whole kitchen 
replaced at a cost of £13,971.80, which they believe RSA ought to reimburse. 
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ss comments regarding this. And I dont think its fair 
or reasonable for RSA to have to reimburse the full cost of their new kitchen. So, Ill explain 
why. Our service would expect RSA to have made a payment based on the cost to cover the 
snagging works. I can see that RSA did just that. It was Mr and Mrs S decision to replace 
the entire kitchen, which I cant see, from the evidence was necessary. Consequently, I think 
RSA did what we wouldve expected it to do. So, I cant reasonably ask it to reimburse Mr 
and Mrs S full kitchen costs. 
Ive next considered the compensation. I understand that Mr and Mrs S would like far more 
compensation as they dont believe, theyve been adequately compensated. So, Ive had a 
further look into this. 
From the case notes, I can see that Mr and Mrs S raised several issues. RSA accepted that 
there were issues raised. It not only apologised for this but also recognised the impact on Mr 
and Mrs S. I note that RSA had made several compensation payments which totalled £450 
for various failings. In addition to those payments made, it offered and paid a further £850, 
primarily for the issues regarding the kitchen installation. Consequently, RSA has made 
compensation payments totalling £1,300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Im satisfied that the redress offered and paid by RSA, adequately compensates Mr and Mrs 
S for the experience they had. And are in line with our guidance on compensation. 
Accordingly, I wont be asking RSA to increase the amount of compensation that it has 
already paid.  
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S strength of feeling about this complaint. But, in the overall 
circumstances of it, I havent seen enough evidence to show that RSA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman