DRN-3141078
The complaint
Ms V complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim she 
made on her ten-year building warranty policy.
  
What happened
In 2020, Ms V made a claim on her building warranty policy due to mould growth on the 
reveals of her apartments French doors and windows. NHBC declined the claim, as it 
understood the issue to be condensation.
After receiving a surveyors report from Ms V, NHBC agreed to visit her property. However, 
following an inspection, NHBC declined the claim. It concluded the damage wasnt being 
caused by a defect in one of the areas listed in the policy.
Ms V brought a complaint to this service about the claim decision. She also noted the 
following:
- The managing agent had previously tried to raise various issues with NHBC, in 2018. 
However, the claims were dismissed. Ms V was told the problem at her apartment 
was condensation. As a result, she spent about £2,000 trying to resolve the issue, 
but the damp and mould returned.
- Ms Vs survey was jointly commissioned with her neighbour. The survey cost £4,500, 
and it ruled out condensation as the issue.
- Due to the ongoing issues at Ms Vs apartment, she has reduced her tenants rent. 
She also noted the stress and worry the situation was causing her.
One of our investigators didnt think the claim had been unfairly declined. Because Ms V 
disagreed, her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I have already been in contact with both parties. I didnt consider the policy terms had been 
applied correctly. NHBC confirmed it would accept the claim. NHBC agreed to investigate 
the cause of the damage, so it can complete the necessary remedial work. NHBC also 
agreed to reimburse Ms V her share of the survey cost (£2,250) and pay her £500 
compensation for the impact the incorrect claim decision has had on her.
I didnt consider NHBC to be responsible for Ms Vs attempted repair costs, given the repairs 
had been carried out before she had contacted NHBC. I also wasnt persuaded NHBC was 
responsible for Ms V reducing her tenants rent or for the arrangements she had with her 
tenants. I accepted Ms Vs relationship with her tenants had likely suffered due to the 
ongoing damage, but I considered £500 to be fair compensation for the worry and 
inconvenience caused to Ms V, by NHBC not accepting her claim sooner.
Ms V was pleased with my proposed resolution. However, in respect of her attempted repair 
costs, she asked me to consider an email exchange from 2018, between NHBC and the 
managing agent. The email exchange showed NHBC had dismissed the issues as 
condensation, without investigating. 
Ms V also provided the survey and attempted repair invoices, to evidence her costs (£2,250 
for her share of the survey and £1,886.75 for the attempted repairs).
I put the email exchange and the repair invoices to NHBC. I accepted the attempted repair 
costs were incurred as a result of NHBC dismissing the damage in 2018. NHBC agreed to 
reimburse Ms V the £1,886.75. 
NHBC also agreed to pay Ms V 8% simple interest per annum on her repair and survey 
costs, from the date she paid the invoices, to the date of settlement.
My revised proposed resolution was put to Ms V. However, she hasnt responded to our 
further contact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To avoid further delay, Im formalising my proposed resolution by way of this final decision. 
Apart from asking me to give the attempted repair costs further consideration, Ms V had 
accepted my initial proposed resolution. Given that NHBC has now agreed to reimburse 
those attempted repair costs, its my understanding there are no outstanding issues.
In any event, having reconsidered all the information and arguments presented, Im satisfied 
the below resolution is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my correspondence with the parties, I uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- settle Ms Vs claim by completing the necessary remedial work to resolve the damp 
and mould issues at her apartment;
- reimburse Ms V £2,250 for her share of the joint survey, plus 8% simple interest per 
annum, from the date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement (the survey 
invoice appears to be dated with the wrong year, but Ms V should be able to 
demonstrate when she paid it);
- reimburse Ms V £1,886.75 for the attempted repairs, plus 8% simple interest per 
annum, from the date she paid the repair invoices to the date of settlement; and
- pay Ms V £500 compensation for the worry and inconvenience she suffered due to 
the incorrect claim decisions.If NHBC considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Ms V how much its taken off. If requested, NHBC should also 
provide Ms V with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman