DRN-3160147
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused to refund a 
debit card payment for an item that hadnt been received.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K had a joint current account with Halifax. Mrs K used her debit card to 
purchase concert tickets on a secondary ticketing website (the Website). She paid £322.61 
for the tickets and this amount was debited from the current account in February 2020. The 
concert was scheduled to take place in June 2020 but due to UK government restrictions, as 
a result of the coronavirus pandemic, the concert was postponed.
Mrs K says she never received the tickets for the concert. Shes been told that the concert 
has been rescheduled but the new date doesnt suit her.
Mrs K asked Halifax to refund the payment taken from her account. Halifax said itd tried to 
make a chargeback request, under the Visa rules that applied, but this hadnt been 
successful. Mrs K complained.
Halifax investigated her complaint. It said it had attempted to chargeback the payment using 
the Visa chargeback process. The Website had provided details of the terms and conditions 
which applied when Mrs K had purchased the tickets. It told Halifax the concert was still 
taking place on a rescheduled date, and it was offering Mrs K tickets for the rescheduled 
event. Under the terms and conditions for the Website, it said refunds were not offered. So, 
having considered what the Website had told it, Halifax said it wasnt able to progress the 
chargeback request any further. 
Mr K and Mrs K complained to our service. Mrs K told us shed not received any tickets for 
the event and no seats had been allocated for the rescheduled event.  She also provided 
information from the event organiser which said that where tickets had been purchased from 
unauthorised outlets there was a risk that entry to the event would be refused. 
Our investigator looked into Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. He said that Halifax had attempted 
to chargeback the payment. The Website had provided evidence of what the terms and 
conditions said. The Website had found replacement tickets for Mrs K at the rescheduled 
event and in these circumstances it didnt offer a refund. He said that the chargeback 
process didnt guarantee that a payment would be refunded. He thought that Halifax had 
followed the correct process and it hadnt done anything wrong when it refused to refund the 
payment.
Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out, at the outset, that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it 
about the original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the 
secondary ticket selling Website (which Mrs K then bought). It is solely about what Halifax 
did or didnt do.
So, although Mrs K has told us her concerns about tickets resold on the Website - that is not 
something I can look into. I can only look into whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably 
when Mrs K asked it to refund the payment shed made to the Website.
When a consumer raises a dispute about a purchase made using her debit card then 
chargeback is a way that can be used to seek to reclaim the money. Chargeback is not a 
legal right and there is no guarantee it will be successful.
In this case, Halifax did raise a chargeback request with the Websites bank. That is what we 
wouldve expected it to do. So, I think it acted fairly when it did that.
The Website provided information to Halifax in response to the chargeback request. It 
provided the terms and conditions which it said applied when Mrs K had purchased the 
concert tickets. It referred specifically to a clause which said that in circumstances where the 
tickets werent delivered to Mrs K, the Website would try to find replacement tickets. The 
terms also said the Website would not offer a refund. The Website said it had offered tickets 
for the rescheduled concert. 
Halifax considered the information provided by the Website. It decided to decline the request 
for refund and said it wouldnt pursue the matter further. 
I have to decide whether Halifaxs actions here were fair and reasonable.
As I said above, chargeback is not a legal right and it does not guarantee that refunds will be 
made in all cases. The bank, in this case Halifax, has to process chargeback requests in line 
with the Visa rules which apply.
Im satisfied Halifax followed the correct process when it raised the chargeback. It also 
followed the correct process when it looked at the information the Website provided to it. 
And, I think it acted fairly and reasonably after considering that information, when it decided 
not to progress the chargeback any further. Ill explain why.
When Mrs K purchased the tickets on the Website she accepted the terms and conditions 
which applied. Those terms included a guarantee from the Website. The guarantee was that 
the tickets would be received in time for the event. If the tickets werent provided the Website 
would, in its discretion, offer replacement tickets or a refund for the cost of the tickets. 
Ive looked at what the Website terms said about events that were rescheduled. The terms 
said that if an event was cancelled or rescheduled the Website reserved the right to cancel 
the sellers transaction. Mrs K wasnt the seller under the terms  she was the buyer. So, 
although the Website could cancel the sellers transaction, the Website was still able, under 
the terms, to find replacement tickets for Mrs K for the rescheduled event. It wasnt obliged 
to offer her a refund. The Website told Halifax it had offered her replacement tickets. Mrs K 
acknowledges this, but she says the rescheduled date doesnt suit her.
Mrs K says shes entitled to a refund because the tickets she purchased havent been 
delivered. Ive thought about what shes said here. The terms and conditions for the Website 
state that the date of delivery for the tickets will be in time for the event. The original event 
has been rescheduled to June 2022. That date doesnt suit Mrs K  but that doesnt change the fact that the Website has offered replacement tickets for the rescheduled event. The 
obligation under the terms and conditions which Mrs K agreed to, was to provide those 
replacement tickets, in time for the event. So, Im not persuaded Halifax acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it decided not to proceed with the chargeback. 
Having considered all of the information provided to Halifax by the Websites bank, Im 
satisfied, on balance, it acted fairly and reasonably when it decided, on the basis of the 
information received, not to refund the payment. I do not require it to have to do anything 
further to resolve this dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman