DRN-1994159
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) has condemned her gas 
appliances under, her home emergency policy. 
It should be noted that the insurers in this complaint is British Gas Insurance Limited, who is 
the business who underwrite this policy. 
What happened
In 2012, BG inspected Mrs Ss gas fires and passed them as satisfactory to be used. In 2016 
it carried out a service of those appliances and condemned them due to ventilation issues. 
Mrs S raised a complaint with BG as she wasnt satisfied with the way its explanation as to 
why the fires had been condemned, had changed. She also felt that BG ought to have found 
that the fires were unsafe much earlier as it had put her and her family in danger. 
In its final response, BG accepted that in 2012 it found that the appliances met the safety 
standards. But since then, it said that Mrs S failed to book annual services. So in 2016 when 
she did book a service, BG found that there were ventilation issues and condemned the 
fires. 
BGs resolution to Mrs Ss complaint was to offer to refund the premiums paid from the date 
it condemned the appliances, install ventilation into her home without further cost to her and 
pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Mrs S wasnt happy about this offer as she felt that her appliances shouldnt have been 
passed as satisfactory and she had had a few years where she felt her family had been in 
danger. So she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld her complaint in part. He said that BG hadnt treated Mrs S fairly. He 
felt that on balance the appliances were not compliant when they were added to the policy in 
2012. Which meant that Mrs S had been paying additional premiums that she ought not to 
have been paying. He concluded that BG ought to refund those premiums but the 
compensation award and the offer to provide ventilation to Mrs Ss home, was fair. 
BG didnt agree with our investigator as it said that its offer to resolve this complaint was fair 
and reasonable. So it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint. I will explain why Ive reached this 
decision. 
I have looked at whether BG acted fairly in dealing with Mrs Ss complaint. In doing so, I 
have looked at the policy document and schedule as well as considering both partys 
comments.
Having reviewed the policy document regarding the annual service reminders, it says that 
BG will send reminders inviting customers to book annual services. BG said that it invited 
Mrs S to book the services over the years by email or letter and on each occasion, it said it 
received no response. 
I note that Mrs S said that she always booked a service to take place, as she had other 
appliances that were serviced as well. And Mrs S says that the annual services of the fires 
did take place. BG says that it had no record of annual services occurring between 2012 and 
2016. It cant evidence all the reminders it said it would have sent to prompt Mrs S to book a 
service. On balance, based on Mrs Ss clear recollection that services took place each year, 
my view is that it is more likely than not that these did occur. Had there been any issue with 
the fires before 2016, I would have expected BG to have noted these. 
BG had said that the reasons that the gas appliances were condemned was because there 
were ventilation issues in the room. It accepted that in 2012, when it carried out the initial 
inspection, the ventilation was satisfactory. Mrs S confirmed that the rooms had not been 
reconfigured at all since that initial inspection.
BG also said that the gas safety regulations had changed, which was the reason why the 
fires were condemned. I asked BG to provide me with details of the change in the 
regulations that it had relied upon to condemn the appliances. The response I received said: 
After further investigation, the regulations have not changed.  So, I think from this response, 
it appears that there had been no change in the gas safety regulations from 2012. 
Nevertheless, BGs assessment was that the fires couldnt be safely used and so Mrs S 
stopped using the units from 2016. So, I am persuaded by Mrs Ss comments that the fires 
ought never to have been deemed safe from initial inspection in 2012. And I think that it 
seemed more likely that the engineer who deemed the fires safe was mistaken, given that 
there had been no change in the regulations, or the configuration of the room.
Putting things right
Taking everything together, I think BG treated Mrs S unfairly. And I think a reasonable and 
fair settlement of this complaint would be for BG to refund the premiums paid in full, from 
initial inspection until the date they were removed from cover. Thats because it seems that 
at least some of the policy cover wouldnt have been available for an installation deemed 
unsafe. BG has offered to provide ventilation to the property and pay £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused  which I think is fair in the circumstances. So I wont 
be asking it to increase this part of its offer. 
My final decision
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to: 
Refund the premiums paid by Mrs S (aside from any that it has already refunded) 
from the date her appliances were initially inspected in 2012 until the units were 
removed from cover. To this sum should be added 8% simple interest per year (less 
tax if properly deductible) from the date each premium was paid by Mrs S to the date 
of my decision. Correct the ventilation issues in the property.
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation and premiums within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation and premiums from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman