DRN-2905523
The complaint
Mr F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi 
Finance (Audi), unfairly cancelled his hire agreement for a car and registered a default 
on his credit record.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr F entered into a three-year hire agreement for a car with Audi. 
Unfortunately, in October 2018, the car was stolen. Mr F informed both Audi and his 
insurers what had happened, and an insurance claim was opened.
In November 2018, Audi wrote to Mr F and said that it was aware he had opened a total 
loss claim, and that it would be in contact with his insurance company to negotiate the 
highest settlement offer to minimise any shortfall in his account. This letter also advised 
him that the contract would be ended once the settlement amount had been received and 
that he should continue to pay all the monthly payments due.
At around the same time as this letter, Mr Fs insurance company went into liquidation. 
However, Mr Fs claim remained open and was dealt with by a claim handler, based 
with a third-party company, on behalf of the insurer.
It appears that the car was in fact recovered by the police in late November 2018 and 
stored in a police compound. However, for unknown reasons, its whereabouts werent 
known to either the claim handler and/or Audi until January 2019.
At the end of November 2018, Mr F sent Audi an email informing it that he would be 
stopping his direct debits payments for the car as he was purchasing a new one. Audi sent 
an email in response advising Mr F that he should keep up the payments until the 
settlement had been received from the insurers. It also sent Mr F a further email, about 
one week later, saying that, as yet, no settlement amount had been received. 
The claim handler contacted Audi to explain that, currently, they were not in a position 
where they could proceed with the settlement.
Mr F did not pay his December 2019 payment due under the agreement.
In January 2019, Audi was informed by the claim handler that the car had in fact been 
recovered. The claim handler also said that the car was no longer considered a write-off 
as it was in a driveable condition, although it had sustained some damage to its one of its 
wheels. Audi told the claim handler that Mr F would need to deal with car but was informed 
by them that Mr F wasnt in a position to get the car released, as he did not wish to pay the 
storage fees which were increasing daily.
Audi made contact with Mr F who was abroad at the time. He queried the damage to the 
car and said he had been told the car had been written off after 30 days had passed from 
its being stolen. Mr F said he would not be taking the car back due to the amount of time 
it had been out of his possession.
Audi attempted to liaise with the insurance company but, as the company had gone into 
liquidation, there were complications. However, as the insurance company did not 
consider the car to be a write-off, the total loss settlement claim was withdrawn by Audi. 
It asked the insurance company to make Mr F aware of this.
Audi was then advised that if the car was not collected by a set date at the end of 
January 2019, it would be sold at a police auction. Audi arranged for the car to be 
collected and paid the storage fees that had accrued. Audi says it sent Mr F a default 
notice in January 2019.
In February 2019, having established via the Motor Insurance Database that there was no 
insurance policy cover in place, no open insurance claim and the car wasnt in Mr Fs 
possession, Audi took the decision to terminate the agreement for breach of its terms and 
conditions. At the time of termination Mr Fs account was also in arrears, having missed 
payments in both December 2018 and January 2019. An arrears notice had been sent to 
Mr F in January 2019, advising that this may have an impact on his credit file.
The car was subsequently sold by Audi and the amount received was offset against the 
outstanding balance due under the agreement. Following its sale, the claim handler 
contacted Audi and said that, as claim had been opened before the insurer had become 
bankrupt, the claim was still being considered. The claim handler asked if the car had 
been repaired and, if so, what costs had been involved. Audi then engaged in 
correspondence with the claim handler as to whether there were amounts it would pay 
out in respect of the car. The outcome of those discussions is not known though no 
payment was made by the insurance company to Audi.
During this time Mr F made a number of enquiries with Audi as to what was happening, 
and queried a default on his credit file, due to the non-payment of the monthly rental prior 
to the agreements termination. He complained to Audi that it had unfairly terminated the 
agreement and registered a CCJ against him.
Audi didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. It said the agreement had been terminated because 
the car hadnt been in his possession, as per the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Audi also said it had advised Mr F that no settlement had been received from his insurers, 
and that he should continue to make his direct debit payments. It said the claim handler 
had then informed it, after the car was located, that Mr F was declining to take the car 
back and was refusing to pay for the storage fees. The car, according to the national 
database, was uninsured up until the termination of the agreement, which was also a 
breach of the agreement. 
Audi said it had not registered any CCJ against Mr F, but had properly recorded adverse 
information regarding the missed payments and outstanding balance under the 
agreement.
Mr F was unhappy at Audis response and complained to this service. He said he had 
made a claim for the stolen car with his insurers before it went into liquidation and had 
been told, after 30 days, that it was a total loss. He hadnt been informed until January 
2019, that the car had been found and he had declined to take it back as he was 
concerned about its condition and whether the financial agreement was still valid. He said 
the claim handler had contacted him about the car when he had been abroad, so he 
hadnt been able to deal with it then. He said the reason the agreement had been 
terminated was because the car was said to be uninsured, which was not true.
Mr F also said Audi was unfairly reporting adverse information on his credit file, which was having an impact on his daily life. Mr F says he hadnt been told what the car had sold for, 
or what the shortfall under the agreement had been.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She said it 
wasnt disputed that the car had been stolen and a claim opened with Mr Fs insurers.
Unfortunately, the insurers had then gone into liquidation and Mr F had been informed 
there would be a delay in settling the claim. In December 2018, Mr F had decided to stop 
paying the direct debits under the agreement, although Audi advised against this until the 
claim had been settled.
Our investigator said that Mr F had told Audi, in January 2019, that he was not prepared 
to pay the release fee for the car and, although there had been a delay in letting Mr F 
know where the car was, that wasnt Audis fault. On two further occasions in January 
2019, Mr F had said he would not be taking the car back.
As the car was not in Mr Fs possession, having been collected by Audi from the 
compound, and the claim handler had confirmed there was no active claim and the car 
was uninsured, Audi terminated the financial agreement. Our investigator said it was 
entitled to do this under the terms and conditions of the agreement.
Our investigator said there wasnt any evidence that the car had been insured, or that 
Mr F had intended to continue with the contract. Audi had notified him in January 2019, 
that he was in default of the agreement, and followed this up with a notice in February 
2019 that it was proceeding with termination. She said Mr F had been told what would 
happen.
Our investigator said that, under the terms and conditions of the agreement, Mr F would 
be liable for charges. She said she didnt think Audi had acted unfairly in its handling of 
the termination of the agreement.
Mr F disagreed with our investigators view. He said the car had been insured at the time 
the agreement had been defaulted. He also said that he was never offered the opportunity 
to collect the car.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
As set out by our investigator it isnt disputed that Mr Fs car was stolen, or that he had 
opened a claim with his insurers. Unfortunately, due to the insurance company going into 
liquidation and then bankruptcy, the claim had become somewhat complicated and the 
settlement delayed. Then, as the car had been subsequently recovered and was no longer 
considered to be beyond economical repair, what had at first been deemed a total loss claim 
no longer was. I thought the resulting insurance claim would have been for any damage to 
the car that required repair, plus the storage fees, less any excess charge that was payable 
by Mr F under his policy.
Mr F said he had been told that if the car hadnt been recovered within 30 days of being 
stolen it would be considered a total loss and it appeared that, as the car wasnt recovered 
in that time, hed then arranged a new car for himself. He had also told Audi that, from 
December 2018, he would no longer be making payments under the agreement because 
he had now taken out another agreement for a car. Id seen that Audi advised him to 
continue with payments until the agreement had been settled. But Mr F had responded by 
email in December 2018 that if he owed Audi anything once the settlement had been paid 
I am sure you will tell me.But, as no settlement was made by Mr Fs insurance company, the agreement hadnt 
come to an end. This had meant that Mr F remained responsible for making the monthly 
payments, and his failure to do so led to arrears on the account and notices of sums in 
arrears being sent to him.
Looking at what Mr F had said in email correspondence to Audi, and that he had 
arranged a new agreement in November, I thought it was reasonable to say Mr F had 
assumed there would be a settlement payment to Audi for the car from his insurers once 
the 30 days had passed and had relied on that. He had decided to stop making payments 
against the advice of Audi.
Although I could appreciate why Mr F had acted as he had, I didnt think he had been 
entitled to consider the hire agreement would be terminated after the car had been 
missing for 30 days.
So, I thought Audi had acted reasonably in continuing to seek payment for the 
agreement, as Mr F remained liable as per the terms and conditions of the hire 
agreement. I thought Audi was entitled to send the notices of arrears to Mr F.
I didnt know why there had been such a long delay from the car being recovered, and 
both Audi and the claim handler being notified as to where it was. I hadnt seen any 
evidence that this delay had been due to anything Audi had or hadnt done. I accepted 
that, by this time, the storage fees would have been considerable. However, I didnt think 
Audi had acted incorrectly in telling the claim handler that the storage fees were Mr Fs 
responsibility. It would have been for Mr F to have claimed those from his insurer.
Mr F disputed that he had declined to collect the car and said this hadnt been offered to 
him. Id seen that at the time the car was found, Mr F was actually abroad, so I thought it 
was likely he hadnt been in a position to collect it. Mr F had told both the claim handler, 
and then Audi in January 2019, that he didnt wanted the car and wouldnt be making 
arrangements for its return to him. Audi considered that when Mr F said he was not 
taking the car back, he had no intention of collecting it and continuing with the agreement.
I accepted from the evidence produced by Mr F, that the car had been insured under his 
original policy until March 2019, but I also accepted that this wasnt shown on the national 
database. I couldnt fairly say Audi had acted unreasonably when it had relied on that 
information. And, I couldnt see that when the lack of insurance cover was raised with Mr 
F by Audi in January 2019, he had provided any proof that his car was insured. I accepted 
Audi was in talks with the claim handler at this point, but the issue would have been over 
the ongoing cover for the car.
Audi had collected the car from the compound where it was being stored, having been 
advised that it was shortly to be sold by the police. I thought in the circumstances this had 
been a sensible action for it to take to minimise its losses and, in turn, any liabilities Mr F 
might have owed to Audi with regards to the car.
Audi said a default notice had been sent to Mr F in January 2019. Mr F didnt appear to 
have received it, and he also was abroad at the time. Audi wasnt able to provide me with 
a copy of this notice, so I was unclear as to what reason had been given as to how the 
agreement had been breached. Id seen that various reasons have been given for the 
agreement being subsequently terminated when the default notices term had expired in 
February 2019.
Audi told Mr F that the agreement had been terminated because the car wasnt insured, 
but it also said it was because the car wasnt in his possession as he hadnt collected it from the compound. Finally, Audi said it was due to the arrears on the agreement not 
having been cleared.
Looking at the termination of the agreement in February 2019, I didnt think Audi had 
acted fairly. Audi had been aware Mr F was abroad in January 2019 and Id seen that 
hed sent Audi an email at the end of January 2019 saying he was now back in the UK 
and asking for an update. I couldnt see that Audi had responded to this enquiry. There 
had then been no further contact from Audi to Mr F until March 2019, by which time Audi 
had sold the car.
Due to the circumstances, I thought it would have been reasonable for Audi to have 
explained to Mr F that it now had the car and to have offered it back to him during 
February 2019. It knew Mr F had been away and that there had been problems with his 
insurance company. I also hadnt seen, in the contact notes provided by Audi, that it had 
explained to Mr F what the consequences of not collecting the car would be. I thought 
there had been a breakdown in communication with Mr F by Audi.
Id also seen that the claim handler had contacted Audi requesting information as to the 
costs of any repairs the might be required, and the costs of the storage fees. I didnt know 
what happened with the insurance claim, but Audi said it had received no settlement from 
the insurers, so Mr F was liable for the storage fees, the costs of cutting new keys and 
other sundry expenses that had arisen from collecting the car from the compound and 
selling it. However, due to the lack of information, I couldnt say that Audi had liaised with 
the claim handler as I would have expected, and, so I didnt think I could reasonably say it 
was fair for Mr F to face these additional costs. Mr F, in good faith, had relied on Audi and 
his insurer to speak and sort out the claim. He hadnt had any of the necessary 
information to provide to the insurer, as Audi had arranged for the collection of the car 
from the police.
I accepted there were breaches of the agreement by Mr F as he hadnt paid the monthly 
instalments, but I didnt think Audi had acted fairly in its handling of the matter. However, 
in considering a fair resolution, I had to consider what would have been the most likely 
outcome had Audi offered Mr F the opportunity to have the car back in February 2019. 
And, looking at the circumstances, I didnt think Mr F would have taken it back as he had 
already arranged another car for himself. I thought he would have asked to terminate the 
agreement.
If the agreement had been terminated early, then the calculation of the settlement, due 
from Mr F, was set out in term 8 of the hire agreement. This meant Mr F remained liable 
for any arrears that had accrued, which I thought was fair. However, I didnt think it was 
fair, for the reasons set out above, that Mr F additionally paid the recovery costs, the 
sundry fees and the storage and release fees. Nor did I think, in these circumstances, that 
Mr F should be liable for the reduction in value of the car, due to the damage it sustained 
after being stolen and before being collected. I thought it was reasonable to have 
expected all these costs to have been pursued by Audi against Mr Fs insurer, who, 
looking at the contact notes, had appeared willing to pay these costs. 
For the reasons set out above, I intended to partially uphold Mr Fs complaint, as I didnt 
think Audi had handled this matter fairly. I thought it would be fair for Audi to have treated 
this as an early termination of the agreement and, when calculating that settlement figure, 
consider that the car had been returned in good condition so that there were no charges 
for damage. Audi should also write off the costs of recovering the car, sundry fees and 
storage and release fees. Mr F was to remain liable for the arrears that had accrued 
under the agreement, before it had been terminated in February 2019.I appreciated this matter had resulted in Mr F suffering distress and inconvenience, but I 
couldnt reasonably say this was all due to Audis handling of the matter. There had been 
the complication of the insurer going into liquidation and also Mr Fs own contribution by 
his ceasing payments and declining to collect the car. For these reasons I wasnt going to 
ask Audi to pay compensation to Mr F.
Id seen that adverse information regarding this account had been recorded on Mr Fs 
credit file. Audi had a responsibility to ensure accurate and fair information was reported 
to credit reference agencies and so I thought it was fair to record the missing payments. 
However, as I was unclear as to the grounds upon which the default notice was sent and, 
as Audi should have offered the car back to Mr F when he made contact at the end of 
January 2019, I thought it was fair that it removed the default and termination information 
from his credit record.
Mr F was still liable to repay instalments to Audi to settle this account, but I understood 
that his financial circumstances had changed, and so I expected Audi to take that into 
account when dealing with the outstanding balance on his account.
Mr F says that Audi has shown no duty care for him and that he wasnt told where the car 
was or in what conditon. He says his refusal to take the car back at the time was 
reasonable as he was abroad at the time.
Audi says that while it accepts my provisional decision it isnt possible for it to now 
calculate the early termination quote as the agreement has already been terminated. 
However, it has provided a figure calculated from what was left to pay under the 
agreement less a rebate amount as a fair settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed my provisional decision and, overall, I havent changed my view. I 
appreciate Mr F wasnt in a position to take the car back when it was offered to him in 
January 2019, but he hadnt been clear with Audi why he was refusing. However, in the 
circumstances I still think it would have been fair for Audi to have offered the car back to Mr 
F when he returned to the UK in February 2019 rather than terminating the agreement.
So, I dont think Audi handled the defaulting of Mr Fs agreement fairly and so that 
information together with termination of the agreement should be removed from Mr Fs credit 
file if that has not already happened.
I also havent changed my view that that even if Audi had offered Mr F the car back then its 
more likely than not that he would have chosen to terminate the agreement as he would not 
have required two cars. 
And when a lease agreement is terminated early then normally an amount of the outstanding 
rentals are still required to be paid. I appreciate Audi cant now run that calculation as the 
agreement doesnt exist, but it has calculated what it considers to be a fair settlement. In 
reaching a figure Audi has taken what was left to pay had the agreement gone to its full term 
and then deducted the amount that would have been paid as interest. This reduces the 
outstanding rental amount by around 45% but does mean Mr F owes £6,791.26 to Audi. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with this amount, but I cant reasonably say the 
calculation undertaken by Audi in these circumstances is unfair. As set out above, there would always have been an amount due and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Audi 
to cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay in these circumstances. I therefore 
accept this calculation in place of the early termination figure that would have been applied 
had the agreement not already have ended.
However, I dont think it would be fair for Mr F to have pay the recovery costs of £250 for the 
car, any storage fees or any other sundry items such as replacing the key.
I understand Mr F feels frustrated over what has happened as it wasnt his fault the car was 
stolen nor that his insurer went bankrupt. Unfortunately, I dont think Mr F has assisted 
himself with this situation. He entered into another agreement for a new car and stopped his 
monthly payments for the stolen car before a settlement payment had been made by his 
insurer. 
In light of Mr Fs decision to stop payments and that this was despite the advice from Audi to 
not do so, I still think its fair Mr F pays the accrued arrears up to February 2019 when the 
agreement was terminated. The arrears amount to £2089.62.
While I also appreciate Mr F feels Audi didnt exercise its duty of care towards him, on 
reviewing the evidence, I havent changed my view that compensation is not warranted here. 
I cant hold Audi responsible for the delays with the insurer sorting out the claim, for the 
delay in discovering the cars whereabouts or for Mr Fs own actions in ceasing to pay and 
arranging a new agreement, for a different car. So, as set out above I think the removal of 
the default and termination notice for this account from Mr Fs credit file is sufficient to rectify 
what Audi did wrong.
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking Audi to do the following:
Remove the notice of default and termination for this agreement from Mr Fs credit 
file if it has not already done so
Show that the outstanding balance on Mr Fs account as £8,880.88 being made up of 
the arrears of £2089.62 together with the amount of £6,791.26 for terminating the 
agreement early. 
Take into account that Mr Fs financial circumstances have altered when working with 
him as to how this amount is to be paid.
My final decision 
As set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Fs complaint. Im asking Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance to do the following:
Remove the notice of default and termination for this agreement from Mr Fs credit 
file if it has not already done so
Show that the outstanding balance on Mr Fs account as £8,880.88 being made up of 
the arrears of £2089.62 together with the amount of £6,791.26 for terminating the 
agreement early. 
Take into account that Mr Fs financial circumstances have altered when working with him as to how this amount is to be paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman