DRN-2269275
The complaint
Miss P complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly closed her credit card account which has meant 
she has been unable to get a mortgage.
What happened
Miss P says she went into a TSB branch in 2019 to get advice about a loan but TSB closed 
her credit card account and started a bankruptcy procedure against her. She says she hadnt 
missed any required payments and simply wanted to reduce her credit card balance by 
asking about a loan. Miss P says she has now lost out on getting a mortgage due to the 
bankruptcy procedure and would like up to £100,000 compensation or a mortgage and 
compensation.
TSB says it hasnt made a mistake and tried to help Miss P. It says Miss P spoke to one of 
its advisors and he referred her to its specialist team. TSB says it waived charges and 
refunded some and correctly referred Miss P to a specialist debt agency. It says it was clear 
a loan wasnt affordable and in those circumstances acted correctly by restricting the credit 
card account. TSB doesnt accept using the term bankruptcy and says that it wouldnt have 
anything to do with that or could start such proceedings.
Miss P brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought TSB had tried to help Miss P by referring her to its specialist team and by refunding 
and waiving charges. The investigator didnt think TSB had mentioned or suggested 
bankruptcy or that there was any evidence of adverse information recorded on Miss Ps 
credit file. The investigator also thought TSB had acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions where there were signs that Miss P was unable to make payments.
Miss P doesnt accept that view and maintains TSB used the term bankruptcy and says she 
told TSB she didnt wish to make changes to her credit card account. She would like 
compensation and her account re-opened and any adverse information removed from her 
credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
and hasnt made a mistake. I realise Miss P will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
There is no real dispute here that Miss P went to a TSB branch for advice about her financial 
circumstances. I have looked at Miss Ps account statements and her credit card statements 
and Im satisfied that its clear Miss P was in financial difficulties as I can see that her 
account was overdrawn and that she was only able to make relatively small payments 
towards her credit card balance. Im also satisfied that TSB looked at Miss Ps income and 
outgoings and fairly concluded that a loan was unaffordable and also recommended that she 
spoke to its specialist department and a debt specialist. In those circumstances I find TSB 
acted fairly by limiting the use of the credit card account and in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions which allow it to do so.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. And Im satisfied TSB acted in such a way here by refunding and waiving 
charges and by referring Miss P to debt specialists.
I appreciate that Miss P says TSB referred to bankruptcy. But I dont think that was the case 
or that I have seen any mention of that in TSBs records. I dont think it likely TSB would 
have or would need to mention bankruptcy and that it couldnt start such proceedings in 
these circumstances. I have not seen any evidence that TSB has unfairly reported adverse 
information about Miss Ps accounts to the Credit Reference Agencies and cant fairly hold 
TSB responsible for any refused mortgage applications.
Overall, Im satisfied that TSB tried to help Miss P and correctly restricted her credit card 
account. I dont find it mentioned or referred to bankruptcy proceedings and so I cant fairly 
order it to re-open the account or pay the compensation Miss P would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman