DRN-3809519
The complaint
Ms M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly voided a car 
insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms M insured a car with Watford Insurance. Her car was damaged in an accident and she 
claimed on the policy.
After making enquiries, Watford Insurance declined cover for the claim, voided Ms Ms policy 
and retained the premiums shed paid. It said shed answered the question it asked about 
her occupation incorrectly. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to void the policy and retain the premiums. 
Ms M referred her complaint about this to our service after Watford Insurance rejected it. Our 
investigator thought Watford Insurance could fairly cancel the policy, but it should repay the 
premium paid. Watford Insurance didnt agree, and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance thinks Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she renewed the policy. It said she should have declared her job 
working at a casino at that point but didnt do so. 
The policy that has been voided was a renewal of an existing policy. For the purposes of 
CIDRA, a renewal is treated as a separate contract to the original policy. Watford Insurance 
needs to demonstrate that Ms M made a qualifying misrepresentation when the policy was 
renewed in order to fairly void the renewed policy. 
Ive looked at the proposal form Mrs M was sent when she renewed the policy. This form 
includes a disclaimer which highlighted the importance of checking that all of the information 
was accurate, and to contact the intermediary handling the renewal if any changes were 
required. There was also a declaration at the end which said I have read the above 
statements and I confirm they are complete and correct as far as I know.
The proposal form gave details of the people who would be insured to drive the car. It 
detailed their primary and secondary occupations. Ms Ms primary occupation was listed as 
a beautician, with no secondary occupation listed. 
At the point of renewal, it appears to be accepted that Ms Ms primary occupation was 
working in a casino, with her employment as a beautician being a secondary employment. 
Shed taken on the employment at the casino during the previous period of cover. Im 
satisfied she should have declared the casino employment when reviewing this proposal 
form. Im satisfied she didnt take reasonable care in renewing the policy without notifying 
Watford Insurance of her change in employment.
Watford Insurance has provided a relevant excerpt of their underwriting criteria. These 
confirm it doesnt offer insurance to those whose employment is at a casino. Im therefore 
satisfied Watford Insurance would have acted differently (in that it wouldnt have offered the 
renewal) if Ms M had correctly disclosed her occupation. This means I can safely conclude 
Ms Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford Insurance has said Ms Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. CIDRA 
says a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer knew that it was untrue or 
misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue and misleading, and knew that the 
matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not care 
whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. CIDRA also says an insurer has to show a 
qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless. If it isnt deliberate or reckless, the 
misrepresentation will be careless.
Watford Insurance says the misrepresentation was reckless (as opposed to deliberate).Its 
reasons for saying this are that Ms M had taken on the new employment during the original 
period of insurance, and hadnt notified Watford Insurance as she should have done, and 
then didnt disclose this when asked about her occupation at renewal. Watford Insurance 
suggests she knew her occupation had changed, but her reasons for not disclosing this, 
connected to her not using the car to get to and from the new occupation, meant that she 
didnt care and was reckless.
Im not persuaded by this. I dont dispute that Ms M didnt take reasonable care. I think the 
reasons given by Watford Insurance are indicators that Ms M didnt take reasonable care, 
but dont show she was reckless. Im not persuaded that in not amending her occupation, 
Watford Insurance can fairly say Ms M acted recklessly. 
Ms Ms position is that she didnt properly check the proposal form, and wasnt using this car 
to travel to and from work. She should have still disclosed this change in her circumstances, 
but that doesnt mean she acted recklessly. Ms M didnt take reasonable care, and did 
misrepresent her occupation, but I cant conclude that her actions were deliberate or 
reckless. 
Therefore, as Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, 
I dont think Watford Insurance is entitled to void her policy and retain the premium. CIDRA 
reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. If a misrepresentation 
isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. Ive looked at the actions CIDRA 
says Watford Insurance can take in the event of a careless qualifying misrepresentation 
being made.The situation here is that if Ms M had correctly disclosed her occupation, Watford Insurance 
wouldnt have entered into the contract. CIDRA says that in these situations, where a 
careless misrepresentation has been made and a claim has been made, the insurer can 
fairly void the policy back to inception (thereby meaning any claims made on the policy arent 
covered) but it must return the premium paid.
Watford Insurance has retained the premium (the remedy available to it where a qualifying 
misrepresentation is made deliberately or recklessly) but CIDRA doesnt allow that in the 
these circumstances. It was reasonable for Watford Insurance to void the policy, but not to 
retain the premium.
To put things right here, Watford Insurance must return the premium to Ms M. It should have 
done so when the policy was voided, and has unreasonably retained that money which was 
rightfully Ms Ms. 
Watford Insurance should also pay 8% interest on the amount it returns to Ms M, from the 
date it voided the policy, to the date of settlement. This reflects our long standing approach 
where an insurer has unnecessarily or unreasonably delayed the payment, or refund, to a 
policyholder, as is the case here.
The additional 8% interest payment wasnt originally recommended by our investigator. I 
informed both parties of my intention to include this in my decision. Ms M accepted this. 
Watford Insurance responded, again explaining why it considered the misrepresentation to 
have been reckless, but didnt respond to my recommendation to pay interest. Ive previously 
addressed why I think the misrepresentation should be classed as careless and nothing Ive 
seen persuades me I should change this.
I do conclude however that Watford Insurance acted reasonably in declining cover for the 
claim. It wouldnt have entered into the contract if Ms M had correctly disclosed her 
occupation. Under CIDRA, it can fairly decline cover for any claims made on the policy which 
has been voided.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. 
In order to put things right, Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must refund the 
premium paid by Ms M for the policy which was voided. It must also pay 8% simple interest 
on this amount, from the date it voided the policy to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman