DRN-2945675
The complaint
Mr C complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GL) have unfairly declined his claim under 
his buildings insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the level of service he has received, 
and in particular delays. 
Mr C has been represented with this complaint, but for ease I have referred to Mr C 
throughout. Any reference to GL includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The claim
Mr C is making a claim following the backing up of his underground drain and pipes system. 
His policy provides cover for this where there was accidental damage to underground 
pipes. The policy goes on to define accidental damage as unexpected and unintended 
damage caused by sudden and external means. 
A contractor appointed by GL to investigate the claim, inspected the damage and concluded 
that it was due to wear and tear  pitch fibre pipework has reached the end of its service 
life. 
Considering the evidence, I cant fairly say that the damage was accidental. Instead, I am 
satisfied that it was caused by general wear and tear. This is not something that the policy 
provides cover for. Mr C has said that we cant be sure how the damage was caused and 
that it may have been done accidentally a couple of years ago when work was done above 
to a boundary wall. However, that isnt sufficient for me to ask GL to consider the claim, 
contrary to the contractors report. 
Further to this, the policy indeed has an exclusion for claims for damage which is due to 
wear and tear or gradual deterioration.  For both these reasons, I am satisfied that GL have 
acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Service issues and delays
Mr Cs claim began in August 2019. The contractor initially inspected the damage that month 
and produced a report at the beginning of September 2019. Mr C chased this up at the end 
of the month and was told the claim was still being considered. GL acknowledge he was 
given the impression that the claim was going to be covered. 
A second contractor visit went ahead in October 2019 and after a report was issued in 
November 2019, Mr C was told at the end of that month that the claim was being declined. 
Mr C complained in December 2019 and was paid £150 for the delays and mis-advice 
regarding the claim. Mr C responded in January 2020 but didnt get a full response until   
July 2020. For these further delays, GL paid Mr C a further £150. 
This went on for almost a year and I think the initial contractor visit should have been enough 
to get an answer to Mr C that the claim was going to be declined. I think GL are responsible 
for this time that it took and I do think that wouldve added to Mr Cs stress at an already 
difficult time.. However, I do think that £300 is fair compensation for the additional stress and 
loss of expectation that Mr C describes.  
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, and I do sympathise with him especially considering 
the expense of the repairs. However, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. GL were correct to 
decline the claim and have compensated him fairly for the level of service he received. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman