DRN-2180346
The complaint
Mr H has complained about two loans he took out through a company called Ferratum UK 
Limited. Mr H says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems. 
He also says Ferratum wasnt responsive or sympathetic enough when he asked for help.
What happened
We now know that he took out 2 loans based on the information provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Amount Type
1 September 2016£500 
(max. available)Drawdown 
Facility
2 November 2017 £400 Instalment Loan
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Hs complaint.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
H could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Hs complaint.
Ferratum told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr H, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it did 
but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out very thoroughly. 
On the basis of what Mr H said about his net income, I think the repayments on the first loan 
would have looked affordable. And I think the other checks Ferratum carried out would have 
revealed some, but certainly not all, of Mr Hs overall financial profile. Ferratum says that 
based on what was revealed by its checking procedure, the information showed that Mr H 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
I accept that Mr H was potentially experiencing financial challenges at the time, but looking 
at all this through the lens of what Ferratum knew at the time, I think the checks it carried out 
indicated this loan was sustainable. So, Im afraid I dont think theres enough evidence to 
uphold his complaint in respect of the first loan. 
For the second loan, I note this was over a year later. Based on this, Ive taken the approach 
that this is a completely new lending chain where the same principles apply. So once again, 
our normal approach to these types of loan is that the early lending relationship usually 
means less thorough checks are proportionate. Im not aware that Mr Hs income  or what 
he himself told Ferratum at the point of application  revealed or suggested he was 
vulnerable. And none of the three issues Ive bullet-pointed above are apparent, so Im not 
going to deviate from that approach. I think the second loan event was therefore very similar 
to the first and that less detailed checks were proportionate and that these wouldnt have 
revealed information preventing further lending. I therefore dont see any evidence which 
should have suggested this second loan was unsustainable either.
Finally, Ive considered with great care Mr Hs point about Ferratum being less than 
sympathetic to his financial difficulties. However, Im afraid the evidence points the other 
way. It shows that Mr H asked to be considered for a payment plan to alleviate his troubles 
and that this was immediately agreed to. Ive got no reason to think Mr H wasnt aware of the 
agreement since it was returned by the same method he himself used to ask for it.
Overall, whilst I agree its possible that more thorough financial checks could have exposed 
Mr Hs financial situation much better, he was still at the very beginning of a lending 
relationship with this particular business and there doesnt seem to be anything that would 
have caused Ferratum to think he was in financial trouble or might be unable to pay these 
loans back. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ferratum UK Limited to pay Mr H any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman