DRN-2851428
The complaint
Ms W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd rejected her application to open a bank account. 
Shes also unhappy theyve refused to tell her the reasons why and with the service she 
received.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms W applied for a bank account with Monzo, but her application was 
declined. 
Ms W contacted Monzo to ask why, but their advisor was unable to provide her with any 
information as to why they wouldnt offer her an account. Ms W remained unhappy so 
Monzos advisor agreed to escalate her query to a specialist. The advisor said Ms W would 
receive an email if there was any information they could provide.
Ms W didnt hear back from Monzo, so she contacted them again to raise a complaint. She 
said she believed her application had been declined as a result of a faulty process and was 
unhappy shed not been provided with an explanation which she said went against Monzos 
stated aim of transparency.
Monzo investigated Ms Ws concerns. They apologised shed not received the response to 
her query she was told shed get. To recognise the poor service shed received, Monzo 
offered Ms W £30 as a gesture of goodwill.
However, Monzo said Ms Ws application was assessed based on the information shed 
provided. They said theyd reviewed her application, but were unable to overturn their 
decision not to offer her an account. Monzos said they understood Ms W felt they werent 
adhering to their aim of transparency, but as a regulated bank they reserve the right to turn 
down banking applications and do not have to provide a specific reason, as such they were 
unable to provide Ms W with any further information.
Ms W didnt agree that Monzo shouldnt share their internal reasoning for declining her 
application. She said she understood they arent required to do so but that didnt mean they 
need not. 
As Monzos position remained the same Ms W referred her complaint to our service. She 
wanted Monzo to open her an account and ideally tell her the reason for their initial rejection. 
Ms W also felt she mightve been subjected to age discrimination due to Monzo describing 
themselves as the online bank for millennials.
Our investigator looked into things but thought Monzo had acted fairly and reasonably when 
choosing to decline Ms Ws application. He also said theyd explained they werent able to 
tell her why and as this is their procedure its not something our service would ask them to 
change.
Our investigator also considered Ms Ws concerns that shed been discriminated against but 
thought theyd acted fairly and reasonably. He said Monzo had acknowledged Ms W had 
received poor customer service and had offered her £30 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Ms W wasnt happy with our investigators view and felt Monzos lack of transparency means 
she may have problems opening an account elsewhere. Our investigator said he 
appreciated Ms Ws concerns but said Monzo werent obligated to provide the information 
Ms W wants.
As Ms W remained unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I want to say I understand it must be frustrating and somewhat worrying for Ms W not 
knowing why Monzo rejected her application for a bank account. I can see shes been willing 
to co-operate in attempting to overturn their decision from the outset.
Ms W has asked if her appearance differing from her photographic ID, or the unique format 
of her address, was the reason her application declined. Monzo have simply told her theyre 
unable to provide her any information as to why it was rejected. However, Monzo have 
provided us with an explanation. Ive considered this carefully and having reviewed it, 
nothing Ive seen shows that Monzo based its decision on mistaken information as Ms W 
thinks may be the case. 
Ms Ws also concerned that Monzo have discriminated against her by not offering her an 
account due to her age. Where a business discriminates against a consumer this may be 
unlawful. That said, I think it might be helpful for me to explain that it is not our services role 
to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In order to decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into account including 
relevant law and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The 
Equality Act 2010 is relevant law here. So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not 
Monzo has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take into account relevant law 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
I can understand why Ms W feels this way not knowing the reason shes been rejected for an 
account by Monzo. But banks take several factors into account when deciding who to offer 
banking facilities too and Im satisfied Monzo would treat any customer in the same situation 
as Ms W in the same way. And having looked at all the evidence available to me, Im not 
persuaded theyve acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Unfortunately, its not possible for me to share this information or the reason for Monzo 
declining the application. I know this will be disappointing for Ms W who feels Monzo have 
not been transparent and could provide her with an explanation if they wanted to.
When bringing her complaint to our service Ms W said herself, she understands there is no 
requirement for Monzo to provide her with an explanation. And I agree. Its also important for 
me to say to Ms W that I would not expect or could not fairly order Monzo to provide 
commercially sensitive information to her about their internal account opening criteria and 
the reasons why it rejected her application.
If Monzo were to provide information about their internal account opening criteria, then it 
could affect how they run as a business. This type of information is described as commercially sensitive and Monzo arent obliged to disclose it. Therefore, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong, nor do I think theyve acted unfairly by not doing so.
After initially contacting Monzo to ask why her application had been declined, Ms W was told 
her query would be passed to a specialist to see if they could provide her any information as 
to why. She was told shed get an email, but she didnt. Monzo have acknowledged Ms W 
shouldve received a response and have offered her £30 compensation by way of an 
apology. The compensation payment was dependant on Ms W providing Monzo with details 
of where they should make the payment. Monzo have said they are happy to pay this at any 
time upon receipt of Ms Ws nominated account details and say Ms W can contact them to 
provide her details and arrange payment.
But overall, Im satisfied Monzo is entitled to make a commercial decision on with whom it 
enters into a business relationship. So, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly order 
Monzo to open an account for Ms W as she would like or order it to provide any reasons why 
it rejected her account application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman