DRN-2735260
The complaint
 Mr N complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
under his Home Care policy. 
In considering Mr Ns complaint Ive only looked at those aspects that fall within the 
jurisdiction of this service. Ive not considered those aspects that fall outside the jurisdiction, 
such as those concerning the handling of requests under data protection and those relating 
to gas safety. They also include those that relate to the organisation, structure and handling 
of complaints by British Gas, other than to the extent they impact on the provision of the 
service to Mr N under his Home Care policy.
What happened
  Mr N held a Home Care policy with British Gas that provided servicing and breakdown 
cover for his heating and hot water system. In December 2018 Mr N had an issue with his 
hot water system. He reported the issue to British Gas and an engineer visited Mr Ns home 
and identified a fault with a valve in the hot water system. The engineer repaired the valve, 
which involved freeing and servicing the valve. But Mr N experienced further problems with 
the valve, and further visits to repair the valve were carried out in April 2019 (when the 
British Gas service records state that the valve was freed and lubricated) and again in June 
2019 (when it was serviced). 
Mr N experienced further problems with the valve in January 2020. At that point, British Gas 
replaced the valve.
 
Mr N complained to British Gas in January 2020 following the further problems with 
the valve. He was unhappy at the valve having to be repaired three times between 
December 2018 and June 2019, before being replaced. Mr N also complained about 
the cancellation on the morning of the original date of the appointment in January 
2020 (the appointment was re-scheduled for five days later, when the valve was 
replaced). British Gas considered his complaint and in April 2020 offered him £20 in 
compensation. Mr N was unhappy at the response, rejected the compensation offer 
and complained again. 
In July 2020, British Gas agreed with his concerns about the multiple repairs to the 
valve and the way that his complaint had been dealt with on the previous occasion. 
British Gas also acknowledged that they had been unable to contact Mr N to speak to 
him about his concerns. In recognition of the shortcomings in the level of service 
provided, they offered Mr N a further £60 in compensation in addition to the earlier 
£20, making a total of £80. Mr N remained unhappy at this response and rejected the 
offer, writing to the Chief Executive in September 2020.
Mr N was unhappy at the outcome of his complaints and complained to this service in 
September 2020. The main point of his complaint that falls within the jurisdiction of 
this service was about the standard of service that he received under his policy. In 
particular multiple repairs of the valve before it was replaced, as well as cancelled 
appointments and the way in which his complaints were dealt with by British Gas. 
Mr N requested a refund of the premiums paid under his policy from the date the 
valve first became faulty (roughly £500 per year). He also asked for compensation, 
for the maximum sum that this service could award, for the time and trouble that he 
had been put to during the period to carry out the repair and his subsequent 
complaints to British Gas.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. The investigator concluded that 
British Gass decision to repair the valve initially and then subsequently, before 
replacing it was in line with the terms of Mr Ns Home Care policy and wasnt 
unreasonable. The investigator also concluded that British Gas had given reasonable 
explanations for re-cancelling and re-scheduling appointments, and that it had acted 
fairly in offering a total of £80 in compensation for time and trouble and the way they 
had dealt with Mr Ns complaints. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
 
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators view that British Gas had acted fairly in 
offering a total of £80 in compensation. In my view, taking the circumstances and issues of 
his complaint into account, a higher level of compensation was appropriate. I thought that 
£150 in total would be reasonable, made up of £70 in addition to the £80 already offered.
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr N.
Regarding the multiple repairs to the valve and its replacement, I think it was reasonable for 
British Gas to initially repair the valve. The description of the specific Home Care product 
taken out by Mr N is that it is designed to meet the needs and demands of customers who 
want to protect their boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair basis. More 
specifically the Whats covered section of the policy includes reference to All repairs(*) to 
the heat and hot water system on your property and to A replacement of parts of your 
central heating if we cant repair them. 
(*)  The policy defines repair as to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an 
individual fault or breakdown.
That the valve was initially repaired, such that Mr Ns hot water system was fixed and 
worked normally is consistent with the purpose of the Home Care policy. I also think its 
reasonable that British Gas would assess whether a repair was possible when the fault re-
occurred. 
The Home Care policy doesnt set out any specific criteria for when a replacement would be 
carried out rather than a repair, nor to the number of times (and how frequently) an individual 
part would be repaired before then being replaced. British Gas have said that valves are 
designed to be maintained and serviced before being replacement is considered, and that 
they do not have written guidelines for when a part should be replaced rather than repaired, 
as this is down to the discretion of the engineer when they visit. However, in their response 
of July 2020 to Mr Ns complaint, British Gas state that their practice is not to replace a valve if it becomes stuck until the third fault. However, as Mr N reported problems with the valve in 
December 2018, April 2019 and June 2019 it isnt clear to me why the valve wasnt replaced 
in June 2019, the third occasion that Mr N reported the fault within a six-month period and as 
the third fault arose only two months after the second. Based on these factors, I think that it 
isnt unreasonable for Mr N to have expected the valve to have been replaced earlier.
On the issue of cancelled appointments and the short notice given, I appreciate that having 
appointments cancelled at short notice, when Mr N would have made arrangements to be 
around on the dates, would have been inconvenient and frustrating. British Gas have said 
that they made efforts to contact Mr N when cancellation and re-schedule took place, and I 
can see that their records support this. Its reasonable that cancellation and re-scheduling 
are sometimes necessary, for example to deal with emergency calls and those from 
vulnerable customers. It is also reasonable that these would take priority, particularly at 
times of high demand. 
This is reflected in the Home Care policy, where referring to Reasonable timescales it 
states that: Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, 
unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time to visit.
Mr N also raised other concerns in his complaint. These are:
The way in which he was contacted by British Gas not being the way in which he 
initiated contact.
The online booking system not being available for Mr N to make appointments
Lying about a compensation offer.
Taking these issues in turn, I havent seen evidence that persuades me that Mr N made a 
specific request to be contacted in a particular way. Correspondence and service records 
from British Gas indicate that they did seek to contact Mr N in different ways, including 
phone and email.  Ive seen no evidence that Mr N has been disadvantaged through the 
ways in which British Gas have sought to communicate with him.
While the unavailability of an online booking system can be inconvenient, occasionally such 
systems can be unavailable due to technical issues or planned maintenance. And there are 
other means by which businesses can be contacted in these situations. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr N was significantly affected by this factor.
Mr N is adamant that a specific conversation to offer him compensation referred to in the 
initial response letter to his complaint in April 2020 did not take place. British Gas have not 
been able to supply a recording of any such conversation, so its not possible for me to 
conclude on this aspect. However, it may have been a simple factual inaccuracy in the 
letter, and I dont think it affects the substance of the issue (the offer of compensation).
In considering the compensation that British Gas offered to Mr N, taking the circumstances 
and issues of his complaint into account, I do believe that British Gas needs to do more to 
put things right. While they have acknowledged shortcomings in the service provided and 
the way that they handled Mr Ns complaints, and offered compensation, I believe that the 
failure to carry out lasting repairs to the valve before it was finally replaced means a higher 
level of compensation is appropriate. Taking the impact of all the circumstances into 
account, I think that £150 in total would be reasonable, made up of £70 in addition to the 
£80 already offered.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and 
I am minded to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr N compensation of £150, which is made up of £70 in addition to the £80 
already offered.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
 
British Gas responded to say that each time they visited Mr N their engineer was able to free 
and lubricate the valve and left a fully working heating system. They acknowledged that they 
could have probably changed the valve sooner but added that if a part is repairable it would 
not be replaced. They also noted that on the third visit, in June 2019, the engineer assessed 
the valve and decided to service the valve rather than replace it and that the valve worked 
for the next seven months. When the valve failed again in January 2020 the decision was 
taken that it should be replaced. Having reviewed the case, British Gas maintained that the 
correct process was followed, and considered that the £80 compensation they offered was 
more than fair and that no further compensation was justified.
Mr N responded on two aspects. First, in respect of his view that British Gas had lied to him 
about a conversation to offer him compensation referred to in their initial response to his 
complaint. In his response Mr N stated that in their Final Response Letter of June 2020 
British Gas acknowledged that a conversation did not take place. Mr N went on to say that it 
is therefore possible to conclude on this issue  that he had been treated unfairly. Mr N 
added that this was why a recording was not made available by British Gas. Mr N went on to 
say that he does not make a distinction between a simple factual inaccuracy and lying, and 
that this dishonesty [alone] makes him feel it necessary to request again a full refund of his 
premium.
The second aspect was in respect of gas safety. Mr N responded that safety should be a 
consideration to judge whether he had been treated fairly by British Gas. Mr N noted that 
British Gas had yet to respond about his separate complaint to the relevant regulatory body 
about gas safety. Mr N also noted his separate complaint about data protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  In respect of the points made by British Gas, I acknowledged in my provisional decision 
that their engineers have discretion in deciding whether to repair or to replace a part when 
they visit. However, British Gas havent addressed the point I noted in my provisional 
decision about their practice being not to replace a valve if it becomes stuck until the third 
fault. And that June 2019 was the third occasion within a six-month period that Mr N reported 
a fault with the valve (and the third occasion was only two months after the second). Ive also 
noted the comment from British Gas in their response that they could probably have 
replaced the valve sooner. Based on this I havent changed my view that £150 in 
compensation would be a fair and reasonable outcome.
Regarding the points made by Mr N, on his first point of response, relating to whether he had 
been lied to about an offer of compensation, I accept that  as British Gas acknowledged  a 
conversation about a compensation offer did not take place. However, I dont think this 
affects the substantive point in my provisional decision  that a compensation offer was 
made (within the initial response letter to Mr Ns complaint). I also dont agree with Mr Ns 
view that there is no distinction between simple factual inaccuracy and lying. The evidence Ive seen doesnt support the conclusion that Mr N was lied to. As the substance of my point 
remains that a compensation offer was made, in writing, then I dont agree that a full refund 
of Mr Ns premium is fair or reasonable. So I havent changed my mind on this point.
On Mr Ns second point, I did consider all the circumstances (my emphasis) when coming to 
my provisional decision [that £150 in total would be reasonable]. So, I havent changed my 
mind on this point and I still think that £150 is fair and reasonable. As I noted in my 
provisional decision, Ive only looked at those aspects that fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service. It is for the appropriate bodies to whom Mr N has raised separate complaints about 
British Gas to determine the outcome of those complaints, including any remedial action as 
appropriate.
 
In summary, the responses from British Gas and Mr N havent changed my view and my 
final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
pay Mr N compensation of £150, which is made up of £70 in addition to the £80 
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman