DRN-1627750
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his accounts unfairly.
What happened
In April 2019 Lloyds wrote to Mr D in relation to a complaint hed raised about on-line 
banking. In the letter, Lloyds noted that Mr D had raised several service issues with it. And it 
said that it may have to give Mr D notice of its intention to close his accounts if further 
service issues were raised. 
Mr D went on to raise a further service issue in respect of a loan application. When 
responding Lloyds said  in a telephone call on 9 July 2019 that it was giving him notice of 
its intention to close his accounts based on its letter from April 2019. Mr D told Lloyds he 
hadnt received that letter. So, Lloyds issued its written final response on 17 July 2019   
enclosing a copy of the previous letter and confirming the accounts would be closed in 
September 2019. The accounts were closed on 24 September 2019. 
Mr D referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into matter and concluded 
that Lloyds had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, so it 
hadnt treated him unfairly. Mr D indicated he didnt accept this outcome  although, he 
hasnt specifically said why. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the crux of Mr Ds complaint is that Lloyds closed his accounts and Ill refer to this 
shortly. But first, based on the information available, it seems Mr D told Lloyds he hadnt 
received its letter of April 2019. Our investigator didnt refer to this. So, for completeness, I 
will comment on this point. But for clarity this doesnt alter the overall outcome reached in 
this complaint. 
Lloyds final response letter of July 2019 indicates Mr D had told it that he didnt receive the 
letter it sent him in April 2019. Lloyds went on to provide a copy of this letter to Mr D and 
subsequently to this Service. The letter included a response to Mr Ds complaint about an 
on-line banking issue. Given Mr D had contacted Lloyds about the on-line issue, I think he 
wouldve been expecting a response. And I think its most likely - had he not received a 
response, that he wouldve contacted Lloyds again to chase up the response. As I cant see 
that there is any suggestion that Mr D had to chase up a response and, as the letter was 
addressed correctly, I think its most likely that Mr D did receive the letter. Although I accept 
he may have later forgotten about it. 
Also, my understanding is that Mr D feels that enquiries hes made about his account and 
services he has applied for have been incorrectly treated as complaints. But, having looked at the contact history Lloyds has recorded on its system about the contact Mr D has had with 
it, I think its clear that Mr D was dissatisfied with aspects of Lloyds service. So, I dont think 
Lloyds did anything wrong by treating Mr Ds dissatisfaction as complaints.  
But even if Mr D didnt receive the April 2019 letter. Or if Lloyds hadnt treated his enquiries 
as complaints, this wouldnt alter the outcome of the crux of this complaint  the decision by 
Lloyds to close Mr Ds accounts.
An account holder can choose to end their relationship with a business at any time. 
Likewise, a business can decide to end its relationship with an account holder. These 
provisions are set out in the terms and conditions of the account. In this case, the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ds account say that Lloyds can close an account immediately in certain 
circumstances. Or, if those circumstances dont apply, by giving two-months notice.  
Lloyds told Mr D that it intended to close his account during a telephone call on 9 July 2019. 
And this was followed up in writing on 17 July 2019. Lloyds also explained why it had made 
this decision. As the accounts werent closed until 24 September 2019, Im satisfied that the 
required notice was provided. And as it also gave Mr D a reason for the decision it had 
reached, I think it treated Mr D fairly.   
So, I cant uphold Mr Ds complaint, and I cant ask Lloyds to re-open his accounts because 
thats a matter for its own commercial discretion. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman