DRN-3446554
The complaint
Mr G complains Match the Cash Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr G applied for, and was given a loan for £3,500, which was repayable 
over a period of 36 months. The repayments were around £170 a month, and in total Mr G 
agreed to pay back about £6,100 over the three years, once interest was added. 
In April 2019 Mr G applied for, and was given a second loan for £5,500, which was used to 
repay his first loan and raise some additional funds. The monthly repayment was £266, and 
the loan was repayable over a period of 36 months. The total amount payable for the loan 
was £9,581.
Mr G says Match the Cash shouldnt have given him the loans because they werent 
affordable. Match the Cash says it did check whether the loans were affordable, and Mr G 
had enough disposable income to make the loan repayments.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed, so this 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld in part, upholding the complaint 
about the second loan but not the first.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Match the Cash needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr G could afford to make the loan payments before bringing about this guarantor loan for 
him.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for checks to be less thorough  in 
terms of how much information is gathered and what is done to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Loan 1 (taken January 2019)
Match the Cashs enquiries into Mr Gs circumstances suggested that he was employed and 
earning on average £2,550 a month. I also understand that Match the Cash also carried out 
a credit check which showed Mr G had two unsatisfied County Court Judgments (CCJ), the 
most recent was added four months earlier for £320. This fact alone doesnt mean Match the 
Cash shouldnt have lent to him  it needed to include reasonable repayments towards the 
debt as part of its assessment of Mr Gs expenditure. The credit check also showed several 
historic defaulted accounts, with the last account showing in default from April 2017.
Match the Cash also obtained some information on Mr Gs living expenses from him too. 
And everything gathered did suggest that Mr G would be able to make the repayments to his 
loan.
As there was no recent concerning information on Mr Gs credit file, or anything else to 
contradict what Mr G had declared and this was his first loan with Match the Cash, I dont  
think that it was unreasonable for Match the Cash to rely on the information provided. 
Furthermore, even allowing for this there appears to have been a reasonable margin left 
over to make the loan payments. And I cant see anything on the bank statements obtained 
indicating that the loan payments were unaffordable either.
Im satisfied that Match the Cashs checks before approving this loan were proportionate. 
And the information gathered suggests that Mr G could afford the payments.
Loan 2 (taken April 2019)
Mr G returned to Match the Cash three months later to borrow more and take out a new loan 
(and pay off his existing loan in the process). His reason for needing to borrow more was a 
delay in receiving an inheritance.  
In this instance Match the Cash again took details of Mr Gs income and expenditure, which 
it sought to verify by checking his credit file as well as obtaining copies of his bank 
statements. The statements which were gathered at the time of the application showed that 
Mr Gs salaried income had been decreasing over the previous three months. In February 
Mr G earnt £1,379, in March he earnt £851, and in April he earnt £260  I appreciate the 
April statement only covered up until the fourth day of the month. But given Mr Gs February 
earnings were around half the amount it had used to base its affordability assessment in 
January  and his March earnings were significantly lower still  Match the Cash ought to 
have been concerned. I say this particularly because Mr G was returning to borrow more 
within a short space of time.
Match the Cash hasnt shared with us its copy of Mr Gs April loan application as it has done 
with his January application. The January application shows a breakdown of Match the 
Cashs assessment of Mr Gs non-discretionary spending. But given the proximity of the two 
applications, I would be surprised to see any significant variation in its assessment of his 
non-discretionary spending. Afterall, he was still running a car, having to pay council tax and 
he still would have essential living expenses. In January, Match the Cash assessed Mr Gs 
non-discretionary spending at £668 per month. 
Mr G was applying for a £5,500 loan with a monthly repayment of £266. So, given Mr Gs 
income had fallen to £851 the previous month and the strong likelihood of him having a non-
discretionary spending need of around £668, Match the Cash ought to have found it unlikely 
that he could afford the new loan repayments  he could barely afford his existing loan 
commitment. On this basis, I think Match the Cash ought to have declined the application.
Im not satisfied that Match the Cashs checks before approving this loan went far enough  
it needed a better understanding of Mr Gs income and why his earnings had dropped 
significantly. But the information gathered already suggests that Mr G could not afford the 
repayments.Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr G replied and in summary, he said that he still thought that Match the Cash shouldnt 
have lent his first loan as well as the second.
Match the Cash replied and disagreed with my provisional outcome. In summary, it said:
Mr G confirmed his occupation and income when applying for his second loan and Match 
the Cash accept his income had fallen since his first application. However, Mr G earnt 
between £250 and £350 a week, he was in receipt of working tax credits in addition to 
his salary and he had a supplemental self-employed income (which it didnt take account 
of when assessing affordability). Match the Cash dont consider Mr G a low earner.
Mr G was abroad for two weeks during March 2019 which accounted for the drop in his 
salary that month.
Although his income had dropped, his outgoings also had reduced to £362, which left a 
surplus of £223 each month. 
It is unfair to reach an outcome based on the differences in Mr Gs circumstances 
between the two applications because each application was assessed individually.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mr Gs and Match the Cashs responses to my provisional 
decision and reviewing again all the evidence available to me, Im still not persuaded Mr G 
could afford to repay the second loan sustainably, based on his circumstances at the time of 
lending. I still think Match the Cashs checks before approving his first loan were 
proportionate. And that the information gathered suggests that Mr G could afford the 
payments. Ill explain why.
As a reminder, the rules and regulations in place when Match the Cash lent to Mr G required 
it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to 
repay the credit he was being advanced in a sustainable manner.  The assessment had to 
be borrower focused  so Match the Cash had to think about whether repaying the loan 
sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr G. In other words, it 
wasnt enough for Match the Cash to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money 
back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what makes an affordability check proportionate will depend on several factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower an applicants income because it could be more difficult to make the 
repayments as a result;
the higher the amount repayable because it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment, especially from a lower level of income;the longer the loan term, because the total cost of the credit was likely to have been 
greater given the longer time over which repayments have to be made. 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Mr G, in response to my provisional decision, says that Match the Cash should not have lent 
either loan to him, disagreeing with my provisional findings not upholding his first loan. He 
goes on to say that Match the Cash didnt request copies of his wage slips, that his bank 
statements didnt name who he worked for, and that the salary credits into his account were 
for both him and his partner.
Mr G already said this in his response to the investigators assessment and was asked to 
give evidence showing that the salary credits into his account were for both him and his 
partner. He hasnt been able to do so. This being so, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Match the Cash to base the affordability assessment using the information showing on his 
bank account statements and for it to assume, given it was a sole account, that the salary 
credits were his. So, noting this was the first time Mr G had approached Match the Cash for 
a loan, Im still not persuaded Match the Cash needed to do more checks before approving 
his first loan, or that it should not have lent to him.
Match the Cash, in response to my provisional decision, says that it is unfair to reach an 
outcome based on the differences in Mr Gs circumstances between the two applications 
because each application was assessed individually. Mr G was applying to borrow more 
money on the back of having made only 11 weekly payments. So, I would expect Match the 
Cashs checks to have been more thorough. And given the affordability risks posed by 
repeat lending, I think it is incumbent on Match the Cash to have a proper understanding of 
Mr Gs need to borrow more so soon into the term of his first loan. I also think this extends to 
checking that its previous decision to lend had not led to Mr Gs income and expenditure 
becoming overburdened. And referring to the information it relied on previously is a way of 
achieving such assurance. 
Match the Cash also says that although Mr Gs income had dropped, his outgoings also had 
reduced to £362, which left a surplus of £223 each month. I am unclear as to how it has 
arrived at these figures. I have scrutinised the Financial Standing Report that gave Match 
the Cash access to Mr Gs bank account statement information, which it used to base its 
income and expenditure assessment. It shows Mr Gs average total income (including 
transfers and benefit payments) between February and April at £2,584 and his average total 
expenditure over the same period at £2,609. 
I appreciate not all of Mr Gs expenditure showing would have been non-discretionary 
spending. The volume of incoming and outgoing transfers makes it very difficult to 
disseminate any meaningful information in this regard. But at a basic level, these income 
and expenditure totals suggest Mr G was living beyond his means and did not have the 
capacity to take on an increased repayment commitment. 
Match the Cash points to overseas transactions showing on Mr Gs bank statements to 
suggest he was on holiday and to justify the drop in his income during March. Match the 
Cashs duty was not to account for drops in income but to ensure Mr G could repay the 
proposed new borrowing sustainably, without experiencing adverse consequences. For the 
reasons detailed in the above, Im still not persuaded he could. And I think there was enough 
information available to Match the Cash to prompt further questioning about Mr Gs ability to 
maintain the new borrowing he was requesting.Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr G in 
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given the second loan in question. 
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. 
Mr G was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr G back in the position he would be 
in if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of 
putting things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I think Match the Cash should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to his second loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr G made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mr G has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any 
surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mr G to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file as a result of this loan, 
once the debt is repaid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to deduct tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about his second loan but not the 
first and direct Match the Cash Limited should put things right for Mr G in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman