DRN-2916327
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s decision to turn down a 
claim made under his building warranty.
All references to NHBC include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr H lives in a property covered by a ten-year Buildmark policy provided by NHBC. The start 
and end dates of the policy fall between 2015 and 2025.
In January 2020, Mr H notified NHBC of an issue with water ingress from a bay window. 
NHBC investigated the issue and concluded the damage was consistent with the failure of 
the cavity tray to perform above the bay window. NHBC concluded the cost of the repairs 
wouldnt exceed the Minimum Claim Value (MCV) of £1650 set out in the policy terms, so in 
February 2020 it turned down the claim.
In January 2021 Mr H contacted NHBC and said his contractor was of the opinion the issue 
concerned the bay window roof and not the cavity trays. NHBC reviewed the claim and 
updated the schedule of works to include repairs to the bay window roof structure. But it 
concluded that the cost of repairs still fell below the MCV of the policy. So it maintained its 
position to turn down the claim.
Mr H complained to NHBC about its decision to turn down the claim. He was unhappy it 
hadnt sent anyone out a second time to reinspect the issue. 
In February 2021 NHBC provided its final response. It didnt dispute that physical damage 
had occurred due to the ingress of water. NHBC explained that it had calculated the cost of 
repairs using an industry standard guide (including VAT). NHBC confirmed that as the repair 
costs still didnt meet the MCV, it was unable to offer further assistance with the claim. It 
suggested Mr H should therefore look to mitigate further damage as it wouldnt be 
responsible for it.
Mr H didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service. In summary he said:
He was concerned the problem had been misdiagnosed as several contractors 
thought the problem was most likely with the actual roof of the bay window.
He was unhappy with the proposed scope of works as he says the repairs would only 
be a temporary fix. And he says that a permanent fix such as replacing the bay 
window shell would exceed the MCV of the policy.
He was concerned that the bay window leaking is part of a larger issue around water 
ingress in the cavity of the wall. He thinks NHBC needs to do more to investigate this.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
They concluded that NHBC had turned down the claim fairly and that the circumstances 
meant that it didnt satisfy the criteria for claiming under the policy. 
Mr H doesnt agree. In addition to the points previously raised he added:
Water is now getting into his house in multiple places, but only the bay window has 
been considered by NHBC.
The outside brickwork is saturated which in turn means the mortar is starting to 
crumble.
The cavity tray may need fixing, but this is only part of a bigger problem. He said that 
during a storm over the last year he had a significant amount of water come in 
through the ceiling of the bay window.
He was unhappy with the time it took NHBC to respond to the claim and that it 
continued to use an old email address after hed updated it.
There are further issues with the property which have led to damp problems and the 
flooring has required a further screed as a result. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate this must be a frustrating time for Mr H. The evidence Ive seen indicates 
there are potentially further issues with water ingress which require investigation. So I 
understand why he is keen to get the matter resolved. It may help to explain what aspects of 
Mr Hs complaint I am able to consider here. 
Mr H has said the property has further issues along the wall which are contributing to the 
water ingress and which NHBC havent costed for. Ive not been provided with any evidence 
or reports to decide if these issues are valid claims under the policy, or if they breach 
NHBCs technical requirements. NHBC has confirmed a subsequent claim has been set up 
concerning wet brickwork. So any issues Mr H has concerning that claim would need to be 
considered as a separate matter to my decision.
What I will determine is whether NHBC has acted fairly or not in declining the claim for water 
ingress from the bay window under its policy terms and with the evidence available. Ill 
consider the evidence provided by both parties about the condition of the bay window and 
against the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ill see if NHBC has assessed the claim 
fairly, whilst treating Mr H fairly and reasonably too.
Mr H claimed under a building warranties policy provided by NHBC. The policy covers 
problems with a newly constructed home that can be linked to a breach by the builder of one 
or more of NHBCs technical requirements. And the value of this claim needs to exceed the 
MCV of the policy. 
Ive considered the policy document that relates to Mr Hs property. The policy terms in 
Section 3, (which covers years 3 to 10 after the property is completed and in which this claim 
falls) state what NHBC will pay for:
This section applies if there is physical damage to your home because the builder failed to
build the following parts of your home to comply with the NHBC requirements:
The term goes on to list examples such as foundations, wallsexternal renderroofs.We will take responsibility for having the work done to put right the physical damage to your 
home, if the cost to us is above the minimum claim value.
The policy goes on to define the minimum claim value as £1,500 from 1st April 2016 and 
is increased by £50 on 1st April each subsequent year.. This mean the minimum claim value 
applicable to Mr Hs claim was £1,650.
Ive next considered the evidence provided by Mr H and NHBC to see if the above criteria 
have been satisfied. And in order to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied that a) the 
defects identified have caused physical damage to the property and b) that the cost of the 
repairs to NHBC exceeded the MCV of the policy. 
The first part of this test isnt in dispute  as both parties agree that the identified defect has 
caused physical damage. NHBCs investigator reached this conclusion and said that to 
repair the damage the cavity tray should be repaired to the external wall to prevent further 
water ingress. They added that internally the bay ceiling should be stain blocked and 
redecorated. And upon review of the claim the investigator added what they deemed to be 
suitable repairs to the bay window roof.
Whilst Mr H has disputed the scope of repairs required he hasnt provided an alternative 
contractor opinion or report, or anything that would lead me to believe that the investigators 
conclusions are unreasonable, or that the repairs proposed would fail to provide an effective 
and lasting repair.
Having reviewed the scope of repairs, I am satisfied that NHBC has demonstrated that a 
localised repair to the bay window (including extending the repairs to the bay window roof) 
comes to £1075.12, compared to the £1,650 MCV. So, the repairs dont meet the 
requirement for the claim to succeed. 
Ive considered the overall timeline of this claim and the difficulties Mr H says hes had in 
dealing with NHBC. I can see that the claim was turned down around a month after Mr H 
raised the issue, so he was aware of NHBCs position at an early stage. From the 
correspondence Ive seen, it appears the issue surrounding Mr Hs email address has now 
been fixed. So whilst I acknowledge this would have been an inconvenience, I dont find it 
has directly impacted on the outcome of the claim or the time taken to investigate it.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but for the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman