DRN-3873566
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (Barclays) provided incorrect information about extending a conditional sale 
agreement she had with them.
What happened
On 12 June 2018 Ms S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Barclays. She paid an advance payment of £547 and the agreement was for £5,420.80 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £89.90 and a final balloon payment of £2,724 
if Ms S wanted to keep the car. 
In April 2022 Ms S contacted Barclays about her options at the end of the agreement. 
Although she was aware of the three options available to her  return the car, part-exchange 
it for another car, or repay the balloon payment in full  she wanted to extend the agreement 
for up to 12-months, continuing to pay the same payment, then either pay the remainder of 
the balloon payment or return the car. Its not disputed that Barclays incorrectly told her that 
shed be able to do this.
Ms S contacted Barclays again in June 2022, to set up the extension to the agreement, and 
Barclays explained that this wasnt possible. And they compensated her £150 for the 
incorrect information shed been given.
During a series of phone calls that took place in July and August 2022, Ms S was provided 
with two options by Barclays  pay £110 a month for 12-months, then repay the remaining 
balloon payment OR pay £450 a month to clear the balloon payment within 6-months. 
Because the balloon payment was overdue, Barclays had issued a default notice on 24 
August 2022, giving Ms S until 26 September 2022 to resolve matters. And, in a letter dated 
13 September 2022, they told her that she needed to accept either of the options available, 
or pay the balloon payment in full, by no later than 25 September 2022. Barclays also paid 
an additional £100 compensation for any confusion that Ms S had been caused.
However, Ms S didnt let Barclays know which option she wanted to take. And, as a result, 
Barclays registered a default against her on 2 October 2022. Ms S wasnt happy with how 
Barclays had dealt with matters, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the original agreement Ms S signed didnt contain any provisions 
that would allow for an extension. And, while Barclays had provided Ms S with incorrect 
information in April 2022 that an extension was available, they did provide her with options to 
extend the agreement in August 2022. Which he thought was reasonable in the 
circumstances. However, because Ms S hadnt accepted the extension offer, the investigator 
also thought Barclays had acted reasonably by defaulting the agreement as no payments 
were being made.
Given these circumstances, the investigator thought that the £250 Barclays had paid Ms S 
for the mis-advise and confusion itd caused was fair. And he didnt think they needed to do 
anything more.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the default thatd been registered had 
affected her ability to apply for a mortgage. And, even though Barclays had told her this 
would be removed once the balloon payment had been fully repaid, this would impact her for 
over a year once she started making payments. She thought this was truly unfair and shed 
rather send them the £250 back and have my credit score back to how it was.
Ms S also said that Barclays didnt tell her that shed need to respond to them by a specific 
date, or her credit file would be impacted  only that a default for recovery and possession 
of my car will be applied [and] all markers on my file will be removed, but only once all paid. 
Because Ms S didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms S was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that Barclays initially told Ms S that an extension to the agreement was 
available, with unaltered payments of £89.90 a month, in April 2022. And that this wasnt the 
case. As a result of this, Ms S had a series of phone calls with Barclays during July and 
August 2022. At this point, the balloon payment was due, and Ms S hadnt paid this, or 
agreed an extension.
On 4 August 2022, Barclays agreed to a 12-month extension with monthly payments of £110 
 £20.01 more than what theyd incorrectly said in April 2022 the payments would be. And, 
on 23 August 2022, after going through Ms Ss income and expenditure (which showed she 
had £550 a month disposable income), Barclays offered Ms S the option to repay the balloon 
payment in six monthly payments of £450. Given the outcome of the income and 
expenditure check, Im satisfied that Ms S wasnt offered something that she couldnt afford.
I appreciate that Ms S was left confused by the call on 23 August 2022 and believed that the 
£450 for six-months offer meant that the £110 a month offer wasnt available. And this wasnt 
helped by Barclays issuing a default notice on 24 August 2022, explaining that if she didnt 
clear the balloon payment by 26 September 2022, then Barclays would terminate the 
agreement and would notify the credit reference agencies that your account is in default, 
which could make it harder for you to get credit in the future.
However, in a letter dated 13 September 2022, Barclays clarified the situation. They said 
that both the £110 a month and £450 a month options were available for her to take. They 
also said that as soon as the whole loan balance had been cleared we will amend your 
credit file to remove any late or missed payment markers. But this letter also explained that 
if you wish to make a payment plan of either of the two mentioned above, you would need 
to do so before 25 September 2022. As it states a notice of default has been issued to be 
applied for this date.It's clear that Ms S was provided with incorrect and confusing information. However, 
Barclays clarified the situation in their letter of 13 September 2022. And Ms S was clearly 
advised by what date shed need to act, as a default notice had been issued. And the default 
notice explained what would happen if it came into force. 
While Ive noted Ms Ss comments, I dont think the information provided in the default notice 
is contradicted by the letter of 13 September 2022  one explains the effect on Ms Ss credit 
file if the default is applied, the other explains what would happen if Ms S agreed a payment 
plan before the default deadline, and the default wasnt applied.
Given this, Im satisfied that the £250 Barclays have already paid Ms S is fair and 
reasonable for the incorrect and confusing information provided in April and August 2022. 
And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint about Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman