DRN-3239015
The complaint
Ms H and Mr W are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limited. They would like Fairmead to 
take further action in relation to a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mr W has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so for ease Ill refer to him only.
What happened
This complaint relates to a long-running claim for water damage to Mr Ws basement. Hes 
previously made a number of complaints about it, and theyve been considered by our 
Service. I wont be able to re-consider anything that weve looked at before. Ill only consider 
the issues covered by the current complaint, which began in August 2020.
Ill summarise whats happened and then set out the current dispute:
Following bad weather in 2013, water entered Mr Ws basement. It damaged the 
building and his contents. He got in touch with Fairmead. It accepted the water 
damage was covered by the policy and settled the claim by making cash payments. It 
also repaired some drainage defects.
Fairmead identified a number of other defects at Mr Ws property which it didnt think 
were covered by the policy. In summary, it thought they were general maintenance 
problems that hadnt been caused by the weather event in 2013.
 
Mr W was unhappy about the way Fairmead had dealt with the claim. Relevant to the 
current dispute, he said the water problem had continued over the years and was the 
result of drainage problems that Fairmead had failed to recognise and put right.
In August 2020 Mr W took advice from B, a drainage company, about the problems with his 
drainage system. He thought Bs report supported his view that Fairmead was responsible 
for dealing with more drainage problems.
Fairmead said Mr Ws policy had ended several years earlier. And it wasnt persuaded the 
problems noted by B were linked to the 2013 claim. It thought they were the responsibility of 
the local council.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Bs 2020 report showed Fairmead had acted unfairly or 
needed to cover any further work under its policy.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr W feels very strongly that Fairmead hasnt acted fairly when handling the claim. 
Hes referred to evidence and events dating back to the beginning of the claim in 2013.
However, I can only consider things relevant to this current complaint, which is limited to 
evidence and events from Bs 2020 report onwards. Whilst I recognise much has gone on 
before this, over many years, events and evidence from that time have already been 
considered in previous complaints. So, I wont reconsidering them.
In summary, Bs report found a drainage defect which it thought was causing water to enter 
the basement. It said the drain pipe was the responsibility of the local council and 
recommended Mr W contact it to arrange for corrective work to be carried out.
Mr W did that and has shown us the councils response. It agreed a pipe its responsible for 
is damaged and has caused the water problem. And it said it would take steps to carry out 
work to put the damage right.
Because of this, Im satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to decline to deal with the drainage. Its 
policy covered damage to drains but only those Mr W is responsible for. Its clear hes not 
responsible for the drain in question  and the council is.
B didnt offer an opinion about what had caused the drainage defect. But the council did. It 
said the damage had been caused during building works to construct the basement. Mr W 
hasnt disagreed with this and I havent seen any other opinions about how the problem was 
caused.
Mr W says the basement construction began in 2008 and was completed in 2010. That 
means the defect likely happened during that time. So it was certainly caused long before 
the 2013 claim happened. As a result, Ive seen no persuasive link between this defect and 
the way Fairmead dealt with the claim.
I understand the council has asked Mr W to contribute to the cost of the drainage repair. I 
dont think that has any impact on the cover provided by Mr Ws home insurance policy as 
theres no suggestion hes responsible for the drain itself. But, as our investigator has noted, 
Mr W may wish to explore whether the legal expenses cover he has can help him with his.
The policy also covered the cost of repairing damage caused by water escaping from drains. 
Fairmead settled a claim for the water damage in the basement by paying cash. And it 
stopped providing cover for Mr Ws home many years ago. So even if water damage has 
continued as a result of this leaking drain, on balance, Im not satisfied Fairmead is 
responsible for it.
I understand Mr W has approached his current insurer. Thats a separate matter which I 
cant consider here.
Overall, looking at how Fairmead has acted since August 2020, Im satisfied its treated Mr 
W fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 James Neville
Ombudsman