DRN-3757800
The complaint
Mr T says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, placed a default 
on his credit record later than it should have.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr T entered into a debt management plan to help him with his finances. The 
plan covered seven different creditors. One of his financial commitments was a credit card 
with M&S Bank. He says the other creditors all applied defaults much earlier  three months 
after he entered the plan, but M&S Bank waited nine months. Mr T wants the M&S Bank 
default backdating to be in line with the other creditors.
M&S Bank explained itd applied the default correctly after Mr T was in arrears for six 
months worth of minimum repayments due on the account. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said M&S Bank had now applied the 
default in line with its standard policy. This sets out that it registers a default when the build-
up of arrears equals between three and six months of payments due or 180 days have 
passed since the arrears were established. The 180-day period was reached on 10 March 
2020 and the overdue amount at this time was £384.25 which equals nearly six months of 
arrears and on this basis the account should have been defaulted at this point. However, 
due to a temporary Covid policy, the default wasnt applied until 11 September 2020. After 
Mr T complained M&S Bank backdated the default to the time it would normally have applied 
it, in March 2020. Our investigator found this to be reasonable.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr T asked for an ombudsmans review. He said we upheld a 
similar case he brought and so he was disappointed. He says it is grossly unfair he is in a 
worse position by making part payments than someone who did not pay anything at all.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed M&S Banks relevant policy and am satisfied it has applied Mr Ts default in 
line with this. And it is in line with the Information Commissioners Offices principles for 
registering defaults. These set out that a default should be applied at least by the time 
somebody has fallen into six months arrears. 
As our investigator explained M&S Banks policy means that if any repayment is being made 
it will take longer for the arrears to accumulate and reach the trigger for a default to be 
registered. Mr T feels this policy is grossly unfair as it benefits people who make no 
payments at all. But I disagree, and it can be to the accountholders advantage to delay a 
default  this is relevant in Mr Ts case as he explicitly told M&S Bank he expected his 
situation to improve. 
However, the important point for me is to be sure M&S Bank treated Mr T in the same way it 
would other customers in the same position. And I am satisfied it did. It maybe it has done 
something different to his other creditors, but that in itself does not mean it acted in error, or 
unreasonably.
I appreciate the difficulty this may cause Mr T in ensuring his credit record is in as good a
position as possible as soon as possible, but as I have found no failing on the part of M&S I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Mr T referenced another similar case he had brought to this service that was upheld. But we 
decide each case on its individual merits, and even where cases may seem the same their 
particular circumstances can derive different outcomes.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman