DRN-3239590
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with Go Car
Credit Limited (Go Car Credit) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject it.
What happened
Miss C says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a used car with just over 60,000
miles on the clock in February 2021. She says the engine failed in August 2021. And she
has been advised that the repair costs would be over £5,000.
Go Car Credit said it arranged an independent inspection which didnt identify a point of sale
issue for which it was responsible.
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
We expect, when problems arise with a car within the first six months , as was the 
case here, the  business to show if any faults were present or developing at the sale 
and if so to resolve these.  Go Car Credit did, as I would have expected it to do. It 
commissioned an independent report. 
The report confirmed engine wear needing either a complete overhaul or a 
replacement engine. It noted there was no indication the engine failure was present 
at the point of sale or in the weeks following purchase. It referred to the car passing 
its MOT at the point of sale and stated that if the audible noise from the engine had 
been present then the tester would have refused to test the car.
The report concluded that  the failure was a relatively sudden occurrence with the 
likely cause being in service wear , possibly the result of car being driven with low 
levels of oil at some point recently. It also noted that there would have been 
symptoms alerting Miss C to the impending issue, but the tester believed as Miss C 
continued to use the car this would have contributed to the engine condition.
One of the points in the report was that the engine had reached a point that 
suggested a service was needed. I noted Miss C had shown that the car was 
serviced in February 2021.  I believed either just before or just after she got it .That 
service noted work on the engine oil and filter but there was no evidence that work 
caused the problem of the engine failing.
It was unfortunate that the problem with Miss Cs car arose just on the cusp of her 
having it for six months. But just because a fault occurs within six months that doesnt 
automatically mean that a fault found in that time is a business responsibility
I found the independent report persuasive. It didnt find a fault present or developing 
at the point of sale. Even accepting that Miss C didnt drive the car with low oil levels 
 and I wasnt not sure that showing that the car was serviced with work on the 
engine oil and filter proved that Miss C didnt drive with low oil levels - the other 
conclusion was that in service wear and continuing to use the car despite warning 
symptoms were the likely causes of the engine problem.
I was also mindful Miss C bought a used car approximately five years old with just 
over 60,000 miles on the clock when she got it . She might reasonably expect more 
wear, tear, and repair issues than for example with a new car. Having said that we do 
expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. But Mss C also drove 
approximately 9,000 miles without a problem . I didnt think  she would have been 
able to do so had there been a problem present or developing at the point of sale.
I didnt feel I had any evidence to show that the problem was present or developing 
at the point of sale. So, I couldnt  reasonably conclude that Go Car Credit was 
responsible for the engine problem with Miss Cs car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Go Car Credit hasnt responded to my provisional decision. As that decision was in its 
favour, I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to make any additional comments for me to 
consider. But I do believe it has had sufficient time to do so. I think its only fair to Miss C for 
me to now  issue my final decision.
Miss C didnt accept my provisional decision. She has reiterated that she isnt happy that she 
had an engine problem with the car when she had it for less than six months and that the 
issue wasnt covered by her warranty.  She has also said that she was given no choice but 
to hand the car back and if she had known she would have had an outstanding debt as  
result she would have kept the car.
I do appreciate Miss Cs disappointment with my provisional view. But unfortunately, she 
hasnt given me any new evidence  to contradict the conclusions of the independent report. 
And that report concluded that even though Miss C had had the car for a relatively short 
period of time there was no evidence of a point of sale issue, it was likely the issue was 
general wear and tear possibly exacerbated by Miss C continuing to drive the car despite 
warning signs and possibly with low  oil levels. Without any such evidence I cant reasonably 
conclude that Go Car Credit is responsible for the engine failure.
I dont know why Miss Cs warranty didnt cover the cost of repairs , that is something she 
might want to raise directly with the warranty company.
The ending of Miss Cs contract wasnt part of her original complaint to us. I cant therefore 
reasonably comment on the points she has made about being given no choice but to hand 
the car back. It wouldnt be fair to Go Car Credit for me to do so since it hasnt been asked to 
provide any information about this.
If Miss C isnt happy with how Go Car Credit ended her agreement, she  would need to raise 
this with Go car Credit. If she isnt happy with its response, she may have grounds to put in 
another complaint to us but only in relation to the ending of the contract not in relation to the 
engine failure issue which I have made a decision on in this view.
.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman