DRN-4011024
The Complaint
Mrs R says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in 
relation to the purchase of holiday products in 2010. She also says that BPF didnt carry out 
sound and proper credit assessments.
While the holiday products were purchased by Mrs R and her husband (Mr R), this complaint 
is in Mrs Rs name because the credit agreements entered into to help pay for those 
purchases were only in her name. Nonetheless, I will refer to both Mr and Mrs R at times 
during this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs R purchased holiday products from a third party (the Supplier) in February and 
August 2010 for £8,879 and £9,123 respectively. And to help pay for those purchases, Mrs R 
entered into fixed sum loan agreements with BPF that it says ended in March 2011.
Unhappy with those purchases, Mrs R  using a professional representative (LF)  made 
the claims and complaints in question on 30 November 2017 (the Letter of Claim).
In response, BPF sent LF its final response on 7 December 2017  having treated 
Mrs Rs allegations as a complaint (the First FRL). It rejected them on the basis that they 
were made out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
LF appears to have disagreed with the First FRL and provided some comments in response.
As a result, BPF set up another complaint. But when it wrote to LF on 16 January 2018 (the
Second FRL), it acknowledged that the new complaint had been set up in error before 
going on to address what LF had said in response to the First FRL.
So, Mrs R  who was still represented by LF  referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on 25 May 2018.
The complaint was then looked at by an adjudicator who, having considered the information 
available, concluded that Mrs Rs CCA claims for misrepresentation and an unfair 
relationship had been made out of time under the LA. 
Mrs R  who was now represented by a different professional representative (M)  
disagreed. And, in summary, M asked the adjudicator to consider the following:
Irresponsible lending as no affordability checks were undertaken by the Supplier.
Pressure as the sales presentations lasted at least five hours and Mr and Mrs R werent 
allowed to leave  which clearly gives rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 
140A of the CCA.
Tactics used by the Supplier were nothing short of undue influence.
Mr and Mrs R were told that their purchases were investments when they clearly werent.
The Supplier wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) to broker 
credit, such that Mrs Rs loans were void in light of breaches of Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Given the unaffordable rate of interest charged on each loan, Mrs R felt it necessary to 
refinance the loans using other borrowing at a more affordable rate. In practical terms, 
that was a roll-over loan with a different lender. And her position was prejudiced as a 
result.
The additional borrowing remains intrinsically linked to the first transaction and had the 
borrowing been affordable the clients would still be paying the first loan until expiry of the 
same and clearly within limitation.
The Supplier received undisclosed commission from BPF  which would give rise to an 
unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA.
The Supplier was selling the same product to many consumers knowing full well that, if 
they all wanted to holiday at the same time as Mr and Mrs R, it wasnt possible to 
accommodate that. So, each and every misrepresentation by the Supplier was 
fraudulent.
Mrs R could not have known that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent or 
what remedy was available to her until she instructed M who, in turn, told her that the 
misrepresentations were fraudulent.
Mrs R can rely on Section 32(1)(b) of the LA to extend the time available to make her 
CCA claims.
In addition to Ms submissions, Mr and Mrs R submitted their own statement. They seem to 
have touched on sales in October 2008 and May 2009  which arent the subject of this 
complaint. And insofar as their statement related to what happened in February and August 
2010, it provided what were largely factual accounts of what happened at those times. It isnt 
necessary to repeat the contents of that statement in detail here. But, in summary, 
Mr and Mrs R did say the following in relation to the checks carried out by BPF before 
lending to Mrs R:
The only questions they were asked related to whether they were in work and had a 
mortgage/owned their own home.
A credit search was carried out but BPF didnt take any other information from them 
nor was there a discussion about affordability. They were never asked about their 
income or expenditure or any other credit they had.
In the space of 22 months, they had taken out four separate loans via the Supplier and 
the impact on their finances was significant.
Their joint gross annual income in May 2010 was around £77,056 (£44,228 and £32,828) 
and their joint net annual income was somewhere in the region of £54,000.
They had an outstanding mortgage balance of £70,000 and they had to pay for 
after-school childcare for their primary school aged children. They also had a number of 
other costs to meet  including household expenditure like utilities, food and two car 
loans.Even though they had refinanced the loans from BPF using cheaper borrowing from 
another lender, the repayments were still high, and they had to borrow money from 
family (which they had to pay back) to pay off some of their borrowing in order to bring 
the monthly cost down.
They were constantly overdrawn when Mrs R was lent to.
In addition to the loan repayments, they also had to pay annual management charges to 
the Supplier  which, by January 2013, had risen to almost 2,000 Euros per year.
In light of everything that had been said in response to the adjudicators view, the complaint 
was referred for an ombudsmans decision and passed to me for that purpose.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in which I found that:
1. the complaint about BPFs decisions to lend to Mrs R were out of time under the FCAs 
six and three-year time limit  such that the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have 
jurisdiction to consider it; and
2. BPF was likely to have a defence under the Limitation Act 1980 to the claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, 
such that there was nothing it needed to do to put things right as far as its handling of 
those claims was concerned.
BPF had nothing further to add in response to my PD. Mrs R spoke to an investigator and, in 
summary, she told him that she had repeatedly raised concerns with the Supplier (sharing 
an email she sent in May 2015) and didnt know she had recourse to complain via BPF or 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs R also suggested that the Supplier was now in breach of contract following its 
liquidation. But having listened to the call she had with the investigator, the claim in question 
was/is the subject of a separate complaint to this one. 
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, the complaint was passed 
back to me. Having issued a Decision that dealt with the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction over Mrs Rs complaint about BPFs decisions to lend to her, this Final Decision 
only deals with her complaint about BPFs handling of her Section 75 and 140A claims for 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld as far as BPFs 
handling of Mrs Rs claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship are concerned.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And the limitation period to make such a 
claim expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of 
the LA).When a consumer uses certain types of credit to pay for goods or services, and they want to 
make a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier of those goods or services, they can 
 in certain circumstances  make a like claim against the creditor under Section 75 of the 
CCA. The claim against the creditor essentially mirrors the claim the consumer could make 
against the supplier provided it satisfies certain conditions, which includes being made inside 
the relevant limitation period i.e., six years. 
A claim under Section 75 is also an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment 
under Section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is also six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
Mrs R made like claims against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA, and the limitation period 
for those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. So, this means that 
she had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued to make the claims.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mrs R entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements in February and August 2010. I say this because she 
entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of the 
Supplier  which she relied on. And as the loans from BPF were used to help finance the 
purchases, it was when she entered into the credit agreements that she suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued when Mrs R entered into the purchase 
agreements or, if later, the credit agreements  which means she had six years from either
of those points in time to make claims for misrepresentation. But as she didnt complain to 
BPF until November 2017, her claims were likely to have been late even if they had been 
submitted to court.
To be clear, only a court can decide whether Mrs Rs claims were made out of time under 
the LA. But as its relevant law, I have to take it into account when deciding a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. With that being the case, I think BPF had and has a 
defence to Mrs Rs claims for misrepresentation under the LA given their timing. And for that 
reason, I dont think theres anything BPF needs to do to put things right here.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mrs R and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the credit agreements in question  which it does.
However, the LA also applies to claims under Section 140A. It was held in Patel v Patel 
[2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it 
wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as 
this claim was only made in November 2017, I think BPF is entitled to rely on the LA as a 
defence to the claims under this provision of the CCA too, as Mrs R still doesnt dispute that 
the credit agreements she entered into in February and August 2010 ended in March 2011. 
With that said, M did say that the Supplier received undisclosed commission from BPF. But, 
as I said in my PD, had such a payment been made, I hadnt seen anything to suggest BPF 
would have breached a duty by making it  nor had I seen anything to suggest it was under 
a regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. And 
thats still the case now. BPF also says that it never paid more than 10.5% in commission. So, for that reason, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I still think its unlikely 
that the levels of commission likely to have been paid in February and August 2010 (if such 
payments were made) were high enough to put BPF on notice that not disclosing 
commission to Mrs R risked making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 
140A.1
Grounds to Extend Time
M said that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent  which Mrs R could not have 
known until she was told that was the case by M. So, it said that Mrs R can rely on Section 
32(1)(b) of the LA to extend the time available to claim. M also said the following:
The additional borrowing remains intrinsically linked to the first transaction and had the
borrowing been affordable the clients would still be paying the first loan until expiry of the
same and clearly within limitation.
As I said in my PD, its not entirely clear what M was/is trying to say here. On my reading of 
the point, it seems to be suggesting that Mrs Rs claims were made on time under the LA 
because, had the loans from BPF been affordable, she would have made the repayments 
and run the loans to term.
But I still cant see why the relevant time limit under the LA should be determined according 
to a scenario that never happened.
I still also cant see why the mere fact that the Supplier sold the same product to a number of 
consumers who may have wanted to holiday at similar times of the year automatically leads 
to the conclusion that each and every misrepresentation (if made) would have been 
fraudulent. And based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the elements 
necessary to make such a finding are satisfied.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Ive already dealt with the issue of 
commission above. And given the other allegations fuelling Mrs Rs claims under Sections
75 and 140A, I cant see why she was prevented from making the claims in question earlier 
than she did.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended to make the 
CCA claims in keeping with the provisions of the LA.
1 In response to the adjudicators assessment, M said that the Supplier wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to 
broker credit, such that Mrs Rs loans were void in light of a breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. If the Supplier wasnt authorised to broker credit, that could have implications on the relevant credit agreements and 
could give rise to a separate complaint. But as I said in my PD, this allegation wasnt put to BPF when the claims and 
complaints in question were first made to it. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to consider the assertion as a separate cause of 
complaint before BPF has had the chance to do so first. And as Ive already explained why the claim under Section 140A was 
likely to have been made out of time under the LA, I still dont think the allegation changes what Ive already said about the 
timing of that claim.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint insofar as it relates to BPFs 
handling of Mrs Rs claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman