DRN-2979949
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way ReAssure Limited handled a claim under his income 
protection policy. 
Mr H has been represented in bringing some of his complaint, but for ease Ill be referring to 
all submissions as being made by him directly. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is relatively detailed, but as both sides are aware of what 
has happened, Ive only provided a very brief summary of what happened below. 
Mr H had an income protection policy with ReAssure. In 2009 he made a claim on it, and 
said hed become too unwell to work. 
ReAssure began to assess the claim, and a number of exchanges took place between it and 
Mr H. Many of those centred around information ReAssure said it needed Mr H to provide in 
order for it fully assess and decide his claim. This went on for a number of years, during 
which time ReAssure paid Mr Hs claim when it received the information it said it had 
needed, and that included it making backdated payments too. 
Mr H made a number of complaints about the way ReAssure had handled matters. The 
latest of those concerned delayed payments and the cessation of the benefit upon the policy 
expiring on Mr Hs 60th birthday. To put things right, Mr H wanted ReAssure to pay interest 
on the backdated payments, compensate him for the detriment he said matters had on his 
health, and extend the expiration of his policy. 
ReAssure said itd paid the claim, including the backdated payments, as soon as the 
information it had needed was provided. It agreed to add interest to the backdated payments 
at 1% above the Bank of England base rate, not because was obliged to do so, or because it 
had caused delays, but to bring matters to a resolve. And it paid £2,000 as a gesture of 
goodwill. However, ReAssure said Mr Hs policy was sold by an independent financial 
advisor (IFA) and hed need to redirect his concerns about the end date to that party. 
Unhappy with ReAssures position, Mr H approached this service. Our investigator explained 
that Mr H had made a number of complaints since his original claim. But, because more than 
six months had passed since ReAssure had issued final responses on those matters, this 
service only had the jurisdiction to consider his latest complaint  which concerned matters 
from 28 August 2015 onwards. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said ReAssure was entitled to request 
information to help it assess a claim, and she was satisfied itd paid the claim once that 
information had been received. Our investigator said ReAssure had largely assessed 
matters in a timely manner, and although she could attribute small pockets of delays to it, the 
interest itd added to the backdated payments and the £2,000 compensation itd paid was 
fair for that. She also agreed that Mr H would need to pursue his concerns about the policys 
expiration date to the party that sold it to him, and she provided details about where Mr H 
could do that.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion and so, as no agreement was reached the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I want to highlight that I empathise with the impact Mr H has 
said matters have had on him. However, for largely the same reasons as our investigator, I 
will not be upholding his complaint. 
The handling of the claim, the interest and the compensation
In line with the relevant rules and guidance, insurers such as ReAssure have a responsibility 
to handle claims both promptly and fairly.  
The consideration of Mr Hs claim went on for a long time. This is not in dispute, and as I set 
out above, that timeframe appears to have centred on information ReAssure says it was 
awaiting from Mr H. I wont recite the individual and repeated requests for information that 
ReAssure made from the end of August 2015 onwards. But ReAssure does appear to have 
made payments once it was satisfied itd received the information it needed to assess certain 
aspects of Mr Hs claim. 
For example, in 2017 it received information it said it could use to decide the period 2008 to 
2010, and it made backdated payments accordingly. And it did that in 2018 too, on receipt of 
further information which it said it could use to cover the period 2010 to 2017. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to request information to help it decide a claim, and having 
looked at what ReAssure said it needed in this complaint, I dont think its requests were 
unreasonable. I appreciate Mr H has said some of what hed been asked for wasnt 
available, but ReAssure had asked him to get in touch if that were the case. And although 
there were, as our investigator rightly highlighted, some small periods of time in which 
ReAssure could have acted or responded more quickly during its handling of the claim, I too 
am of the opinion that this didnt significantly affect the time it took for Mr Hs claim to be 
paid. 
So for these reasons, it would be unfair of me to hold ReAssure responsible for the amount 
of time that passed whilst it awaited the information itd requested from Mr H. 
Its clear from the testimonies provided that Mr H has found the circumstances surrounding 
his claim extremely difficult. Again, I empathise with the situation hes described, and I 
appreciate he thinks further interest and compensation is warranted. 
However, for me to find further interest and or compensation is due, Id need to be satisfied 
that the delays in this complaint were because of ReAssures actions, and Ive already 
explained why I am unable to make that finding. 
I think ReAssures offering, of interest at 1% above the Bank of England base rate and 
£2,000 in compensation, is a fair and proportionate reflection of the delays it was responsible 
for in this complaint. And so, again, although I appreciate Mr H is likely to be further 
disappointed, I will not be directing it to increase that offering. The end date of the policy
Mr Hs policy expired on his 60th birthday and he would, understandably, like ReAssure to 
extend it. 
ReAssure did not sell Mr Hs policy. A third party did, and our investigator has already 
provided Mr H with details of where he can pursue matters surrounding that sale if he 
remains unhappy with it.
When Mr Hs policy was requested by the third party, he was noted as seeking protection up 
until the age of 60. His policy was set up in line with that, so ReAssure acted in line with the 
terms of the policy that had been requested for Mr H in ceasing his benefit upon him turning 
60. It would be inappropriate of me to direct ReAssure to extend the policys term because of 
this. 
While I realise Mr H is likely to be further disappointed by this decision, like the investigator 
before me, I too am of the opinion that ReAssure acted reasonably in requesting the 
information it did in this complaint, and I do not think it unreasonably delayed confirmation or 
payment of Mr Hs claim. So, I will not be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman