DRN-3628080
The complaint
Mr R complains about charges PSA Finance UK Limited (trading as Free2MoveLease) told 
him to pay when his hire agreement ended.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr R entered into a hire agreement for a new car. Shortly before the end of the 
three-year hire period, PSA got in touch with him to arrange for the car to be inspected and 
collected. 
The car was inspected in June 2021. The inspection report noted the following damage:
Area Damage Cost
Front Door Mirror Ind L Cracked £35.06
Front Door L Dull Paint £122
Rear Door L Dull Paint £122
Quarter Panel L Preparation Marks £122
Rear Bumper Dirt In Paint £75
Rear Door R Paint Run £122
Front Door R Dent £152
Front Alloy Wheel R Scuffed £65
The report said the total cost of repairs would be £815.06. PSA then sent Mr R an invoice for 
these damages. 
Mr R says he accepted three of the charges for damage to the car, totalling £252. But he 
disputed the other five charges for unacceptable repairs and paintwork. PSA offered to take 
off £122 for the poor repair - and to reduce the charges for the bumper and door dent by 
50%. But Mr R still thought this was more than he should have to pay.
PSA sent their final response to Mr Rs complaint on 13 September 2021. They said the 
disputed charges related to repairs that had been carried out to an unacceptable standard. 
PSA invited Mr R to send them a copy of the repairs invoice if this showed the work had 
been done by an approved repairer. And they agreed to honour their previous offer to reduce 
the charges by £235.50.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. He told us hed never had an accident, or had any 
repairs done, in the time hed had the car. He thought the faults must have been present 
when the car was delivered to him - and that he wouldnt have noticed them. 
Our investigator compared the photos of the damage detailed in the inspection report to the 
industry standard - the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA). The investigator thought the charges for the front and 
rear left doors, left quarter panel, rear right door and rear bumper hadnt been applied 
correctly  and that these should be removed from PSAs invoice. 
PSA provided clearer copies of the photos of the front and rear left doors, left quarter panel, 
rear right door and rear bumper. Our investigator still wasnt persuaded they showed 
damage that fell outside the BVRLA standards  and noted Mr R said he hadnt had the car 
repaired or resprayed. So the investigator thought PSA should remove the charges for these 
repairs. 
PSA asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Rs complaint about PSA.
Mr R has told us he accepts three of the damage charges, totalling £252, which he hasnt yet 
paid. Although the main area of disagreement in this case relates to bodywork repairs which 
PSA say havent been completed to an acceptable standard, for the sake of clarity Ive 
considered all the damage charges set out in the inspection report.
PSA have provided a copy of the hire agreement Mr R signed on 20 June 2018. Ive read 
this carefully, to see what kind of damage PSA could charge him for. Section five of the 
agreement sets out Mr Rs responsibilities for care of the vehicle. Ive seen that this includes 
a requirement to Keep the vehicle in good condition. 
Good condition is defined in Schedule 1, which says: The vehicle will be deemed to be in 
good condition for the purposes of this agreement if it is undamaged and has no abnormal 
wear and tear as defined below. This Good Condition Guide goes on to explain what 
things will be considered abnormal wear and tear. Ive compared this to damage detailed in 
the inspection report supplied by PSA, dated 17 June 2021, and photos taken at the time.
 
Ive also looked at the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I consider these guidelines to represent good practice 
across the industry, giving descriptions of what should be accepted as fair wear and tear 
when a vehicle is returned. 
General Damage  total charge £252.06
1. Front door mirror indicator left - cracked
The Good Condition Guide says:
Any broken part is deemed abnormal. 
In relation to lamps and lenses, the BVRLA guidelines say:
Holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of the lamp are not acceptable.
Ive seen a photo of this mirror indicator and I can clearly see at least one crack across 
the glass or plastic cover of the light. 
Front door right  dentThe Good Condition Guide says:
Multiple dents in any one panel and any dent greater than 10 millimetres in diameter on 
the bonnet, boot, roof or above the body moulding lines on the side of the vehicle is 
considered abnormal. 
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two 
per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Ive seen photos of the front right door. In at least one of these photos I can see a dent at 
the edge of the door, with a ruler and lined card positioned nearby to show the size of the 
indented area. Im satisfied that this dent is more than 15mm in diameter. 
2. Front alloy wheel right - spoke damage/scuffed
The Good Condition Guide doesnt specifically comment on alloy wheels. The BVRLA 
guidelines say:
Any damage to the wheels spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy wheel is not 
acceptable.
The photo Ive seen clearly shows damage to the spoke of the wheel. 
Having reviewed the photos, Im satisfied the damage to these areas of the car would be 
considered more than fair wear and tear. So, I consider the charges PSA applied for these 
damages to be fair and reasonable. 
Poor Repairs  total charge £563 
The Good Condition Guide says:
Any substandard repair constitutes abnormal wear and tear.
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
1. Rear door right  poor repair/paint run
The photos of this door show a paint run on the wheel-arch edge. I find this to be clearly 
evident  and Im satisfied this shows a poor repair has been carried out here.
2. Rear bumper  dirt in paint
Ive closely examined the photo of the rear bumper, where I can see evidence of dirt in 
the paint. And I do think this shows a poor repair has been carried out in this area. 
3. Quarter panel left  poor repair/preparation marks
Having examined the photos, I can see clear evidence of preparation marks at the bottom 
of the left quarter panel. So again, I consider this to show evidence of a poor repair 
having been carried out. 4. Front door left  poor repair/dull paint
Ive closely examined the photo of this door. I note these photos were taken on a bright 
day, and the light appears to be reflecting off the bodywork here. I cant see evidence of 
dull paint. 
5. Rear door left  poor repair/dull paint
Ive carefully considered the photo of this door. Although I dont find this photo to have 
issues with reflections, I cant see evidence of dull paint in this area. 
Having reviewed the photos, Im not persuaded they show evidence of a poor repair having 
been carried out to the front or rear left doors. So I dont consider it fair for PSA to charge Mr 
R for damage to those areas.
But Im satisfied that the right rear door, rear bumper, and left quarter panel show evidence 
of poor repairs. Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair for PSA to charge Mr R for this.
Mr R says hes never had any repairs carried out or made any insurance claims while hes 
had the car. He says the issues with the paintwork were difficult to see with the naked eye  
and that the inspector used a special tool to identify shading in the paint. Mr R says these 
faults must have been present when the car was delivered to him, and he didnt notice them. 
Ive given careful thought to the points hes made. 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly about this issue. But where the evidence isnt conclusive, or 
the parties disagree about what it shows, I have to consider whats most likely to have 
happened. 
 
The hire agreement Mr R signed on 20 June 2018 shows the car was first registered on that 
day  and that it was described as new. Ive also seen a copy of the vehicle delivery note, 
which records Mr R having received the car with a delivery mileage of 5 miles. 
I appreciate Mr R may not have seen signs of poor repairs on the car. But I do consider the 
evidence of poor repairs to the right rear door, rear bumper, and left quarter panel to be 
clearly visible to the naked eye. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest the car had been 
repaired before it was first registered and handed over to Mr R.  
For these reasons, on balance, I consider it unlikely that the poor repairs had been carried 
out before the car was delivered to Mr R. So, I dont think PSA acted unfairly by charging 
him for this when the contract came to an end.
Putting things right
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I consider the following charges to have been fairly 
applied:
Front door mirror indicator L;
Front door R;
Front alloy wheel R;
Rear door R;
Rear bumper;
Quarter panel L.
But Im not persuaded that it was fair to charge Mr R for damage to the front and rear left 
doors. So I think PSA should remove these charges from their invoice.As Im not satisfied that all the charges PSA applied were fair, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for Mr R to refuse to pay their invoice in full. So if any adverse information has 
been recorded on his credit file about this, I think it should be removed. 
I said I intended to uphold Mr Rs complaint, and direct PSA to remove the following charges 
from their invoice:
Front door L £122;
Rear door L £122;
And to: 
remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to the damage 
charges. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R said hed never disputed the charges of £252, but he wasnt prepared to pay charges 
for substandard repairs that werent his responsibility.
Mr R stressed that the car hadnt been repaired while hed had it. He said the inspector told 
him vehicles are sometimes damaged prior to delivery and quickly touched up  and that 
he believed this is what had happened here. 
He said it was difficult for him to prove that he hadnt had the car repaired. He suggested we 
check this with his insurance company or the garage he uses for bodywork repairs. And he 
offered to share his financial records if that would help.
PSA didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr R for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Ive given 
careful thought to everything hes told us. 
I appreciate Mr R believes the car must have been damaged before it was supplied to him  
he says the inspector suggested this sometimes happens. But I havent seen any supporting 
evidence about this. 
I realise Mr R feels very strongly about this issue. But as I havent seen any supporting 
evidence to show the car was already damaged when it was supplied to him, Im not 
persuaded that I should depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I uphold this complaint and direct PSA Finance UK 
Limited to remove the following charges from their invoice:
Front door L £122;
Rear door L £122;
and to: remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file in relation to the damage 
charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman