DRN-3424726
The complaint
Miss F complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declining a claim under her pet 
insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Covea include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Miss F bought a dog from a private seller. When she bought the dog, Miss 
F took out her pet insurance policy with Covea and was aware that pre-existing conditions 
wouldnt be covered. But she thought the dog was in good health. The dog had previously 
been registered with a third-party vet practice (P) and the previous owner said the dog didnt 
have any known health issues. 
However, a couple of months later the dog experienced breathing difficulties and she took 
the dog to a vet. The vet suspected a condition called Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway 
Syndrome (BOAS), a condition affecting short nosed dogs and cats leading to breathing 
difficulties. The vet said the dog required an operation, which Miss F agreed to be carried 
out. An operation was carried out which, with additional procedures to treat complications 
that arose, cost a total of £8,259. 
Miss F was aware the policy had a limit for the cost of treatment of any one condition of 
£6,000 so paid the additional £2,259 to the vet. She made a claim to Covea for the £6,000 
she thought would be covered under the policy. However, Covea declined the claim, saying 
her dog had a known similar, pre-existing condition to BOAS in 2020 from the clinical history 
of the dog theyd obtained from P. 
Miss F was unhappy about Coveas decline of her claim, particularly as she wasnt aware of 
any existing pre-conditions. So, she complained to Covea.
Covea didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said as a first claim under the 
policy, they required the dogs full clinical history (including with the previous owner). The 
clinical notes from by P showed they diagnosed the dog as having BOAS and recommended 
the previous owner have treatment for the condition. So, it was clear the condition was pre-
existing and therefore excluded from cover. While Covea accepted Miss F wasnt told of the 
previous BOAS diagnosis, the policy terms and conditions were clear the pre-existing 
condition exclusion applied whether or not the policyholder was aware of the condition. 
Unhappy at Coveas response, Miss F complained to this service. She said she hadnt been 
aware of the dogs clinical history, even though shed requested it from P and the previous 
owner said the dog didnt have any known health conditions. So, they wouldnt have known 
about the previous BOAS diagnosis. Miss F said she couldnt afford to pay the outstanding 
vets bill and that shed been let down by the previous owner withholding information about 
the dogs clinical history. That meant she couldnt have known about the condition. She 
wanted Covea to accept the claim.
Our investigator upheld Miss Fs complaint, concluding Covea hadnt acted fairly. She 
thought the clinical history indicated the dog had shown signs of BOAS before Miss F bought 
the dog. But she thought Miss F genuinely thought the dog was in good health and hadnt 
been aware of the previous indications of BOAS. So, she didnt think it fair for Covea to treat 
Miss Fs claim for the cost of the operation for BOAS as relating to a pre-condition. To put 
things right, she thought Covea should consider the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (without relying on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions). She also 
thought Covea should pay Miss F £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Covea disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, Covea said, firstly, there was no evidence the dogs clinical 
history wasnt provided to Miss F at the point she bought the dog. Secondly, Miss F 
accepted the dog was in a bad state when she purchased it (rescued it). This indicated a 
pre-existing health condition. Thirdly, the clinical history indicated the dog had a visibly flat 
nose, which Miss F would have been aware of when she purchased the dog (a flat nose was 
an indicator of potential BOAS). Fourthly, when taking out cover Miss F had recorded the 
dog as a crossbreed whereas it was of a specific breed (which was known to be at higher 
risk of BOAS). Finally, they didnt think it was relevant whether Miss F was aware of the pre-
existing BOAS condition, as the policy terms were clear that if a condition was pre-existing at 
the point the policy was taken out, a claim would not be accepted. They didnt think the issue 
was (as our investigators view suggested) whether Miss F made a misrepresentation (by the 
pre-existing BOAS condition not being disclosed when the policy was taken out).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to say to Miss F that I appreciate what shes said about the circumstances in 
which she acquired her dog, as (as she saw it) a rescue dog. Im pleased the operation 
seems to have been successful in alleviating the BOAS condition in her dog. I also 
understand why she feels let down by the previous owner not telling her about the dogs 
clinical history and that she wasnt able to obtain the clinical history from P when she 
acquired the dog. However, my role here is to decide whether Covea have acted fairly 
towards Miss F.
 
The main issue in Miss Fs complaint is whether Covea acted fairly in declining her claim for 
the operation on her dog for the BOAS condition, on the grounds that the dogs clinical 
history indicated it had previously had BOAS before Miss F purchased the dog. She says 
she wasnt aware of the dogs clinical history and the previous owner said the dog didnt 
have any known health conditions. So, she wouldnt have known about the dogs clinical 
history, including the previous BOAS diagnosis.
 
For their part, Covea say the dog had a pre-existing condition (BOAS) and as such the policy 
was clear that it excluded pre-existing conditions from cover. So, they acted in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions in applying the exclusion. They also make several 
specific points in responding to our investigators view. Ill look at those points separately, 
after considering the main issue of whether it was fair to apply the exclusion.  
On the main issue of the decline of the claim because of the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of 
the policy (particularly those referred to by Covea in their final response) together with the 
supporting information and evidence, including the vets notes and the clinical history of Miss 
Fs dog (including that from P). Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, the policy 
defines Pre-existing Conditions as:Any illness or injury that:
Happened or first showed clinical signs; or,
Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical 
sign your pet had; or,
Is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical sign 
your pet had; before the start date of your policy or within the first 48 
hours for injuries and first 14 days for illnesses, of the start date of your 
policy; no matter where the illness or clinical signs appear , are noticed or 
happen in, or on, your pets body.
Under the Your Cover part of the policy, Section 1: Veterinary Fees, theres a sub-heading 
What is not covered? that includes the following:
Any pre-existing illness or injury, illness within the first 14 days or injury 
within the first 48 hours.
I think these conditions (exclusions) are clear (and would have been clear to Miss F at the 
time she took out her policy). So, pre-existing conditions (illnesses) that were present (or first 
showed clinical signs) arent covered under the policy. When making her complaint to this 
service, Miss F also said she was aware pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered. Its 
also industry practice for pet insurance policies to often exclude pre-existing conditions.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically BOAS (the condition for which the operation was carried out and which Miss F 
made her claim). Looking at the dogs clinical history from the previous vet, there are several 
references (at various points in 2020) to moderate BOAS indicated, Suspect BOAS and to 
breathing difficulties. Taken together, Im persuaded BOAS was present in the dog before 
Miss F became its owner and would be a pre-existing condition under the definition above.
The terms of the policy also provide that (by accepting the policy) policyholders give Covea 
permission to obtain information relevant to a claim from the policyholders vet; any previous 
vet, specialist or third party (that Covea request). So, in obtaining the dogs previous clinical 
history, Covea were acting in accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
Taking all these points into account, I think its clear the dog did have a pre-existing condition 
(BOAS) for which it had received treatment before Miss F became its owner, as well as the 
operation she subsequently had carried out on the dog. Given the policy exclusion for pre-
existing conditions set out above, Covea acted in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions in declining the claim.
However, Miss F maintains she wasnt aware of the dogs pre-existing condition where she 
became its owner and she thought the dog was in good health and the previous owner said 
the dog didnt have any known health issues. I dont have any reason to doubt what Miss F 
has said and that she wasnt aware of the previous clinical history (particularly as Coveas 
case notes record Miss F telling them P wouldnt release the history to her because of data 
protection restrictions, at the point when Covea had asked her for details of the dogs clinical 
history). This would have meant Miss F wouldnt have been aware of the occurrence of 
BOAS or associated symptoms. 
Also, looking at the previous clinical history, while BOAS is referred to, it isnt specifically 
mentioned for nearly a year before Miss F acquired the dog (the most recent reference is to 
conjunctivitis). Which suggests the BOAS condition wasnt chronic or should have been 
apparent to Miss F when she acquired the dog. I can understand why she feels she was 
misled by the dogs previous owner, given the previous clinical history strongly indicates the previous owner would have been aware of the BOAS condition. Miss F also says the dog 
appeared healthy and that she wouldnt have acquired it had she thought it was unhealthy 
(or had a pre-condition). 
Taking all these points together, Im not persuaded Miss F would clearly have known 
something was wrong with the dog at the point she acquired it. As I dont think she could 
reasonably have known there was a problem with the dog, Ive concluded Covea acted 
unfairly in declining her claim. 
While Ive come to this conclusion, Ive also considered the other points raised by Covea 
when disagreeing with our investigators view. On their first point (there was no evidence the 
dogs clinical history wasnt provided to Miss F at the point she bought the dog) I dont agree. 
Its not for Miss F to prove the clinical history wasnt provided  its for Covea to show that 
she was. As they havent, I dont accept their point. Ive also noted what Miss F told Covea 
about P being unwilling to provide the clinical history to her (subsequently) because of data 
protection restrictions.
Coveas second point is that Miss F accepted the dog was in a bad state when she 
acquired it. However, Ive not seen the evidence to support this. I have seen reference to 
Miss F believing the previous owner had treated the dog badly  but thats not the same as 
the dog having a pre-existing condition (the grounds on which Covea declined the claim). 
On the third point, that the clinical history indicated the dog had a visibly flat nose (being an 
indicator of potential BOAS), again I dont think thats relevant as the key issue isnt whether 
a characteristic of the dog may have indicated potential (as opposed to actual) BOAS. Its 
whether Miss F would reasonably have been aware of the pre-existing condition (which Ive 
concluded isnt the case.)
The fourth point is that Miss F recorded the dog as a crossbreed whereas it was of a specific 
breed (which was known to be at higher risk of BOAS). Looking at the evidence, its not clear 
whether then dog was a crossbreed or a specific breed  Ive noted the previous clinical 
history of the dog records it as a crossbreed. But again, I dont think its relevant to the key 
issue, which is not whether the dog potentially was at risk of a pre-condition (BOAS), but 
whether there was clear evidence that it actually had the [pre] condition. While the previous 
clinical history confirmed that was the case, as Ive concluded Miss F couldnt reasonably 
have been aware of the condition, I dont agree with Coveas point.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Covea havent acted fairly in declining 
Miss Fs claim. Given my conclusion, Ive thought about what Covea need to do to put things 
right. As I dont think theyve acted fairly in applying the pre-existing condition exclusion to 
decline the claim, they should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy (taking account of any policy excess). As Miss F has already paid the £2,259 
part of the vets bill above the £6,000 policy limit, I think its reasonable for Covea to settle 
the £6,000 balance due to the vet (taking account of any excess).
 
On the question of compensation, I recognise the impact the decline of her claim has caused 
Miss F  particularly given her personal circumstances. As well as the financial impact, the 
situation would have been very stressful for Miss F at a time when such stress would have 
affected her wellbeing. Taking the circumstances into account, I think £250 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to:Settle Miss Fs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy (taking account of any policy excess). As Miss F has already paid the 
£2,259 part of the vets bill above the £6,000 policy limit, I think its reasonable 
for Covea to settle the £6,000 balance due to the vet (taking account of any 
excess). 
Pay Miss F £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Covea Insurance plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Miss F accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman