DRN-3317344
The complaint
Mr I has raised a number of concerns over the arrangements relating to a car he acquired 
using a hire-purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
In July 2018 Mr I got a used BMW X6 hed seen at a dealership. The arrangements were 
funded by a BMWFS hire-purchase agreement arranged through a third party credit broker 
A, and a deposit Mr I paid by card. Mr I subsequently raised a query over the deposit 
payment, which was resolved in conjunction with his card provider.
As I understand it, Mr I made the monthly payments under the agreement for around two 
years, before paying a lump sum to take ownership of the car. He has since raised concerns 
with BMWFS relating to the actions of the dealer, the finance sale, paperwork and details of 
the hire-purchase agreement.
Mr I says that the finance was the only option he was given, and that hed have been better 
off using an alternative source of funding such as a bank loan. He also says the vehicle 
mileage was incorrect, that the dealer forged his signature, that he wasnt given any 
paperwork or a cooling-off period, and that he was unaware that a lump sum balloon 
payment formed part of the purchase arrangements.
BMWFS didnt accept Mr Is complaint. It said it had verified the car mileage by reference to 
key readings and telephone conversations between A and Mr I. BMWFS referenced Mr Is 
email to A in which he stated he had signed the hire-purchase agreement that set out the 
finance details.
Our initial assessment
Our investigator wasnt minded to recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied Mr I was provided with the finance agreement, which he signed, accepting the hire-
purchase terms. The investigator felt Mr I had the opportunity to seek alternative sources of 
finance, and that hed been provided with appropriate cancellation rights which he hadnt 
exercised. The investigator also thought that provisions within certain legislation meant Mr I 
was out of time to complain about the finance sale.
Mr I didnt agree, and has asked for this review. In doing so hes referenced errors and 
discrepancies in the hire-purchase agreement and associated arrangements that he says 
mean it is null and void. He wants BMWFS to compensate him.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and why I wasnt minded to require BMWFS to take any action to resolve 
matters. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr Is assertion that the finance was mis-sold to him
Its unclear from Mr Is correspondence with BMWFS whether his original complaint 
incorporated his concerns over the type of finance provided to him. However, it was 
part of his complaint to us which we shared with BMWFS, and included in the 
investigators assessment. As BMWFS has not raised any concern over this aspect, I 
propose to include it in my determination.
Im aware Mr I has said that it is factually incorrect to say that he used a broker to 
facilitate the credit agreement. He says this was done by the dealer. For the 
avoidance of any doubt, my finding  based on the documents Ive seen and the 
correspondence between Mr I, A and BMWFS  is that his credit agreement was 
brokered by A, rather than by the dealer.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974) a creditor may, in 
certain circumstances, be responsible for pre-contract negotiations conducted by the 
credit broker. However, I dont consider that section can be correctly applied to As 
arrangement of the car finance. That arrangement was not a negotiation conducted 
by the credit-broker in relation to goods sold or proposed to be sold by [A] as 
required under section 56(1)(a) of the CCA1974. A was not the car dealer and did not 
own or sell the car to BMWFS.
Ive seen nothing that might suggest that in providing hire-purchase finance to Mr I to 
acquire the car, BMWFS was under a duty to establish whether this was the best way 
for Mr I to fund things. That was, in my view, a matter for Mr I to establish for himself. 
I am, however, satisfied that the hire-purchase arrangement BMWFS provided was 
an appropriate means of enabling him to acquire the car he wanted. I therefore dont 
propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Is complaint.
Information about the hire-purchase agreement and Mr Is entry into it
Mr I says that he didnt receive any details of the hire-purchase agreement or its 
content, and that his e-signature was forged on the document. Ive seen the email 
exchange between Mr I and A dated 28 July 2018 and referenced by BMWFS in its 
response to his complaint. In it, Mr I clearly states that he has signed the agreement. 
Ive asked him about this apparent discrepancy. Hes said the dealer told him to say 
this to A, and that he was vulnerable at the time. Mr I has also placed a good deal of 
weight on the question of whether the paperwork was completed onsite; that is, at the 
dealers premises.
Ive thought about all that Mr I has said, but on balance of the available evidence 
here I intend to conclude that Mr I was provided with the hire-purchase agreement 
prior to his entry into it, and that he agreed to be bound by its terms. I dont consider 
whether the dealer completed Mr Is e-signature on the form or whether it was 
completed on or off-premises to be materially relevant to this finding. Mr Is actions 
both before and after the finance commenced are consistent with his having received 
the agreement and with his intention to be bound by it.
The hire-purchase agreement contains all the material information required by the 
CCA1974. It sets out the term, interest rate, monthly payment and total payable 
under the agreement. It also tells Mr I about his right to withdraw from the agreement. 
I make the observation that Mr I does not appear to have sought or intended to 
withdraw from the agreement. Rather, he made the payments and enjoyed the use of 
the car for over two years before taking ownership.Are there any circumstances that support Mr Is position that the hire-purchase 
agreement is void?
Mr I has referenced what he holds to be errors and discrepancies in the hire-
purchase agreement. He seeks to argue that as a consequence, the agreement is 
null and void. In law, a void contract is one that is wholly lacking in legal effect. By 
way of example, a contract is void where the parties enter into the contract on the 
basis of a common mistake that is key to the arrangements, or where the subject 
matter of the contract is illegal.
Im not minded that any of the points Mr I has cited would be likely to make the hire-
purchase agreement void. Although hes mentioned the car registration number on 
the agreement was incorrect, I dont understand Mr I to be suggesting the car itself 
was other than the one he viewed, took delivery of, and used throughout the finance 
term.
It's possible what Mr I intends is that the agreement was voidable, which isnt quite 
the same thing. A voidable contract is one which has the potential for a court to 
declare the agreement unenforceable. But if the contract has been completed and Mr 
I has paid all the amounts BMWFS has sought from him, I cant see a situation in 
which BMWFS is going to seek to enforce any of the terms of the hire-purchase 
agreement. Its also quite possible the court might conclude that the discrepancies Mr 
I has identified are insufficient to support the argument hes making, or that he has in 
any event ratified the agreement by his actions after entering into it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr I has said in his complaint correspondence, and 
in my own communications with him. But Im afraid Im not currently minded to 
require BMWFS to pay him any compensation. As far as I can see, hes received 
what he expected to receive under the hire-purchase agreement, and has been 
charged in accordance with what he might expect to pay. The discrepancies Mr I has 
identified havent had any material impact on him such that hes been caused any 
financial loss, material distress or inconvenience. Any award made simply because of 
a discrepancy or error would be tantamount to a fine or penalty against BMWFS, 
rather than compensation for the impact that error or discrepancy has had on Mr I. 
Under our rules, I have no power to make awards of a punitive nature.
Response to my provisional findings
BMWFS didnt make any further comments in response to my provisional findings. But Mr I 
has made additional submissions and remains unhappy with a number of aspects. As well 
as his previous points, he says:
BMWFS should be able to provide evidence that he received and electronically 
signed the hire-purchase agreement containing cancellation rights and complaint 
details. It was unfair to base my decision on the principle of the balance of 
probabilities
It wasnt merely the vehicle registration number that was incorrect on the agreement, 
but the cash price of the car and the deposit. The advertised price was £43,975 yet 
the hire-purchase agreement showed the cash price as £44,000. And the deposit 
sum wasnt shown at all
He had been treated unfairly as a result and drew an analogy with that of mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI), referencing that our service has previously 
upheld complaints with similar arguments. The fact hed had the benefit of the 
arrangements didnt make right BMWFSs wrongsWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive thought about what Mr I has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
I dont think hes said anything that offers me a persuasive reason to change my findings. In 
light of his comments, however, I think its appropriate to make the following observations.
The complaint Mr I brings is in some ways equivalent to a civil claim, where the court 
standard is the balance of probability. It would be unreasonable for an informal dispute 
resolution service such as ours to place a higher burden on the parties than the standard 
used by the court. But balance of probability doesnt mean mere guesswork. Rather, it 
involves making findings on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the evidence.
Here, there is a body of evidence to support that Mr I was supplied with the hire-purchase 
agreement (which included all the key information Ive already mentioned) and that he 
accepted the terms of that agreement. Mr Is own contemporaneous emails are part of that 
evidence.
In addition, A has provided extracts from its records relating to emails between it and Mr I 
from the time of his entry into the agreement. Those emails indicate that Mr I queried the 
purchase price at that time and was referred to the dealer for clarification, and that he 
emailed the following day to say he had done so.
I find these exchanges inconsistent with Mr I disputing receiving or signing the agreement. 
Rather, they are consistent with him having received it. He would not have had cause to 
question the purchase price on an agreement he never received. And if Mr I questioned the 
figures but subsequently went ahead anyway, then that was the agreement he entered into. 
Im not inclined to rewrite or interfere with those arrangements on the evidence available to 
me.
Im conscious that there was a dispute over the deposit. Indeed, I said as much in my 
provisional decision, noting that Mr I resolved this at the time with his card provider. And I 
accept there were other details that werent entirely accurate, such as the £25 discrepancy 
on the purchase price and the vehicle registration details.
I dont doubt Mr Is sincerity in bringing the complaint. He clearly feels that errors  however 
minor  shouldnt happen and ought to be addressed. And I have some sympathy with him 
on that. But there are clear differences between the sales practices adopted by some PPI 
providers that led people into contracts they might otherwise not have taken out and what 
are essentially minor discrepancies that have had no real bearing on the operation of his 
hire-purchase agreement.
I appreciate Mr I firmly believes that the discrepancies hes identified should in some way 
invalidate the agreement or entitle him to receive compensation. But as I also said in my 
provisional decision, Mr I hasnt been put to any loss, material distress or inconvenience as a 
result of those discrepancies. So Im afraid I just dont agree with him on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out here and in my provisional decision, which Ive reproduced and 
which forms part of my determination, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman