DRN-4209443
The complaint
Mr W complains about how his insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), 
handled a claim under his motor insurance policy, following a collision with another vehicle. 
Any reference to Admiral in this decision includes their agents. 
This decision covers Admirals handling of the claim following the collision. It doesnt cover 
the subsequent renewal of Mr Ws policy and the premium charged by Admiral at renewal.
What happened
This is a complex case involving multiple elements of complaint by Mr W, both to Admiral 
and to this service. And several responses from Admiral to Mr Ws complaints. As the 
sequence of events is known, the following is a summary of what happened.
In December 2022 Mr W was involved in a collision on a roundabout with a third-party 
vehicle. The third party declined to provide their details as they said they werent at fault for 
the collision (Mr W held the third party to be at fault). Mr W called the police, but the third 
party had left by the time they arrived. Mr W contacted Admiral to tell them about the 
collision and lodge a claim. 
Admiral considered the circumstances of the collision (the third party was also insured with 
them) including the version of events provided by both parties. However there were delays in 
Admiral requesting available CCTV evidence from the local council and other issues in the 
way Admiral dealt with the claim and the time taken assessing the claim. 
So, Mr W complained to Admiral, on multiple points (February 2023) including: the delay 
requesting CCTV footage; not receiving call backs when promised; being given conflicting 
information; Admiral not cross examining the third partys (inaccurate) version of events; 
Admiral not properly contesting liability; and agreeing a 50/50 split of liability for the collision.
In their first final response (March 2023) Admiral upheld most of the points, apologising for 
any inconvenience. They accepted they hadnt pursued the request for CCTV footage on a 
timely basis but didnt accept this was deliberate. They accepted Mr W didnt receive call 
backs as promised and hadnt pursued Mr M telling them (when notifying the collision) he 
had evidence. On the split of liability, Admiral accepted review of the circumstances meant 
they could have probed the decision and not agreed a 50/50 split, as the third party had 
misunderstood Mr Ms intentions when entering the roundabout. Admiral said theyd re-open 
the question of liability. In recognition of the errors theyd made, Admiral awarded £150 
compensation for trouble caused; and a further £75 for upset (a total of £225). 
However, shortly after issuing their final response, Admiral contacted Mr W to say the third 
party had provided further information and description of the collision. This led them to say 
they wouldnt be changing their decision to assign a 50/50 split of liability.
Mr W raised a further complaint to Admiral, unhappy at their changing their position on 
liability, as well as the third party changing their version of events and other issues.
Admiral issued  a second final response (May 2023). They upheld some of the points, 
including not calling him back when indicated; not following up on a report from the police; 
Mr W not receiving the compensation previously awarded; and not considering what Mr W 
thought were discrepancies in the third partys version of events. Admiral awarded a further 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. But they didnt uphold the other points 
and confirmed they wouldnt be revising their decision to split liability 50/50.
Mr W challenged Admirals the response. Admiral issued a third final response (May 2023) in 
which they changed their decision on liability to a non-fault by Mr W. They also amended his 
no claims discount (NCD) and, as a result, refunded part of his premium (the policy renewed 
in April 2023). They also awarded a further £200 compensation (making a total of £575).
Mr W initially raised his complaint to this service in February 2023, before Admiral issued 
their first final response. Having received the first final response and then saying they 
werent going to change their decision on a 50/50 split of liability, Mr W confirmed his 
complaint to this service. He felt unfairly pushed into accepting a split liability, so his 
insurance record would reflect a fault claim. This would increase the cost of his insurance 
and incur costs for the repairs to his vehicle. The incident had caused him significant alarm 
and distress. While Admiral accepted failings on their part, Mr W didnt think their resolution 
was adequate, nor reflect the likely financial consequences for him. 
Mr W raised further points following Admirals second and third final responses. He didnt 
think the [increased] compensation sufficient, given the time taken by Admiral to decide the 
claim was non-fault and the time and effort hed spent persuading Admiral it was non-fault. 
And there was the stress hed suffered from what had happened.
Our investigator considered the complaint (including Admirals final responses and the 
decisions theyd reached on liability and compensation). He didnt uphold the complaint, 
concluding Admiral had resolved the main element of Mr Ws complaint (liability for the 
collision) by recording the claim as non-fault and reinstating his NCD. He also thought the 
compensation awarded by Admiral was fair (and in line with the approach of this service).
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He didnt think the compensation awarded by Admiral was adequate, given the 
time and effort hed had to spend raising his concerns with Admiral. Given the number and 
extent of the concerns, he thought compensation should be in a higher category (using the 
information published by this service). 
Nor did he think Admiral (or our investigator) had considered some of the concerns hed 
raised. The liability issue wasnt the sole cause of the distress hed suffered, given the way 
Admiral had handled the claim and the question of liability (reaching multiple decisions at 
different times). Nor had the impact of what had happened on his insurance premium been 
considered (his renewal premium substantially increased compared to the previous year, 
significantly more than the refund hed received on reinstatement of his NCD). He was also 
concerned the apparent settlement cost of the claim (included in an email from Admiral 
about the refund of his premium) was substantially less than the increase in his premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr W.
Id first want to say Ive considered all the points raised by Mr W in his complaints to Admiral, 
as well as his complaint to this service. While I havent listed each point individually in the decision, I have taken account of all of them, together with Admirals responses. Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
First, the question of liability. Second, linked to that, the way Admiral handled the claim, 
including the issue of liability, in coming (eventually) to their decision to hold Mr Ws claim to 
be non-fault. Third, the way Admiral communicated and responded to Mr W during the 
process. And finally, the issue of compensation for the stress, distress and inconvenience 
suffered by Mr W.
On the first issue, Ive considered the detailed timeline of events. Admiral initially held the 
claim to be split 50:50 between Mr W and the third party, based on their respective versions 
of the collision. Determining liability for a claim is what Id expect Admiral to do, based on the 
description of what happened from the parties involved. And the policy terms and conditions 
provide for Admiral to do so. In this case, Mr W believes strongly he wasnt at fault for the 
collision and that it was the fault of the third party. So, I understand why he challenged 
Admirals initial decision to split liability 50:50 between him and the third party.
Admiral, in their first final response to Mr Ws complaint, said theyd look again at the 
decision in the light of their review of the case as part of considering Mr Ws complaint. 
However, they then said they were maintaining their decision. And they maintained that 
position in the second final response, only to reverse it and decide the claim was non-fault 
on the part of Mr W.
Its not my role to determine liability in claim situations. Or whether individuals (in this case 
the third party) have acted inappropriately (or fraudulently) as Mr W believes. While it isnt 
unreasonable for decisions on liability to change following reconsideration of the 
circumstances and/or new or revised evidence (including from the parties), I dont think 
Admiral acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W through their multiple changes of position. 
And looking at the overall sequence of events, including the challenges made by Mr W about 
what happened and the third partys version of events, Ive concluded Admiral could have 
arrived at their final decision (to hold Mr W not at fault) sooner than they did.
Mr W also says he doesnt think Admiral challenged the third-party version of events as 
robustly as they would, had they not also been the insurer of the third party. However, from 
the evidence and information available, I havent seen anything that shows this is the case. 
And while their multiple changes of position will have caused frustration, inconvenience and 
distress to Mr W, they have ultimately held him not to be at fault for the collision.
Given my conclusions and what Mr W has told us about the impact of the way liability was 
determined, as Ive said, I think he has suffered significant distress and inconvenience from 
whats happened, including the time and effort hes spent pursuing his case with Admiral. Ill 
consider what I think Admiral should do to put things right when considering the question of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
One of the issues related to the question of liability raised by Mr W concerns delays in 
Admiral requesting (from the local council) CCTV footage that may have recorded the 
collision. Mr W says he observed a council CCTV camera covering the scene of the collision. 
And that he had contact with Admiral and was initially told a request had been made, but 
then it hadnt been when he was told it had. Which indicates (along with Admirals response 
to this point in Mr Ws complaint) there was a delay in requesting CCTV footage.
Looking at the correspondence, theres a letter from Admiral to the council requesting this in 
January 2023 (and a second request in February 2023). Theres a response from the council 
(February 2023) saying the department responsible for CCTV has confirmed they do not 
have any CCTV coverage (my emphasis) in the area where the incident took place. Use of the term coverage  rather than footage  might indicate there wouldnt be footage 
available (as there was no coverage). The council also state they only store footage for 30 
days. These points suggest CCTV footage wouldnt have been available, even allowing for 
the 30-day retention period. That being the case, I cant see it wouldnt have affected the 
process (and decision) about liability. 
On the second issue, the way Admiral handled the claim, the sequence of events shows it 
took six months from the date of the collision for Admiral to decide Mr W wasnt at fault for 
the collision (having initially decided liability should be split 50:50). Its also clear Admiral 
accept there were failings in the way they handled the claim from their upholding most of the 
individual points of complaint raised by Mr W. And Admiral accept there were delays in 
requesting CCTV footage (notwithstanding the point above about the availability of any 
footage). And information (including photographs and video) provided by Mr W had to be re-
sent on several occasions. 
Taking all the points together, including the detailed information and evidence provided by 
Mr W, Ive concluded Admiral didnt handle the claim in the way they should, and which Mr 
W could have expected. Ive consider the impact of this when thinking about compensation.
The third issue, following on and linked to the first and second issues, is the way Admiral 
communicated with Mr W during the claims process. From the information and evidence 
available, its clear Mr W has spent a considerable amount of time communicating with 
Admiral about the claim. This includes a significant volume of email and written 
communication, as well as time spent on calls with Admiral (Mr W had provided a listing of 
the calls made, including their duration from his phone records). Its clear (and accepted) he 
wasnt always called back when indicated he would be and that he had to deal with 
numerous teams and individuals at Admiral dealing with the claim. Admiral have accepted 
their service wasnt as good as it should have been, and I agree Mr W has spent a lot of time 
and effort pursuing his concerns about the handling of his claim with Admiral. 
This will have had a significant impact on Mr W, in terms of stress and inconvenience. Ive 
considered carefully what hes said about the impact on him (including the Impact Statement 
hes provided as part of his complaint).
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation would be. Ive taken account of the other key issues in the complaint, as set 
out above and the impact on Mr W (including what he has described in bringing his 
complaint). I can understand why he feels he should receive substantial compensation for 
this. Our approach as a service in these situations is to consider what is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience a business has caused to a consumer from 
their actions, where we dont think theyve acted fairly and reasonably. 
Looking at the circumstances of this case, I think Mr W has experienced considerable 
distress, upset and worry as well as significant inconvenience and disruption. Hes had to 
expend a lot of extra time and effort (over and above that which would have been inherently 
necessary in dealing with a claim, regardless of the circumstances). And this has taken, from 
the date of the collision through to Admirals final response where theyve accepted Mr W 
wasnt at fault, some five months. 
Ive also considered the points made by Mr W when responding to our investigators view 
about the impact of whats happened on his policy premium. However, as Ive set out above, 
this decision doesnt cover the issue of the increased premium Mr W was quoted at the 
policy renewal in April 2023. It would be for Mr W to make a separate complaint about the 
premium and for Admiral to respond. And for Mr W to raise a complaint with this service 
were he to be unhappy with any such response. This would also apply to the point Mr W makes about the cost of the claim (compared to the increase in his premium) in the email 
from Admiral.
Coming back to the question of compensation, Admiral have awarded a total of £575 in 
compensation, as part of their final responses. Having regard to the circumstances of the 
case and the impact as Ive set out above, Ive concluded £575 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:  
Pay Mr W £575 in compensation for distress and inconvenience (if they havent 
already paid it, taking account of any compensation they may already have paid).
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell them Mr W accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman