DRN-4026181
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined 
a claim they made under their furniture insurance policy.
Acasta is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Acasta has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Acasta includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs R took out a five year policy with Acasta when they bought a suite of 
furniture. 
In late 2022, Mr and Mrs R made an accidental damage claim under the policy after a button 
came off the footstool.  Acasta declined their claim. It said the policy provided cover for 
accidental events resulting in cosmetic damage such as stains, rips tears and burns. There 
was no cover for quality issues, faults or defects.
Mr R raised a complaint, but Acasta maintained its position to decline the claim. It said that 
the accidental damage section of the policy provides cover for a rip or tear, burn, scratch, 
puncture or scuff to leather. The leather itself wasnt damaged, so it didnt think it was wrong 
to decline the claim.
Mr R remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy terms 
made it clear that a button being ripped off the furniture wasnt covered. He recommended 
that Acasta reconsider the claim.
Acasta disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said Accidental Damage Leather on 
the certificate of insurance made it clear that the leather is covered, and the leather terms 
under accidental damage apply. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R says the damage to the footstool was caused by something sharp in a family members 
pocket which resulted in the button becoming detached. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as: The sudden and unforeseen damage to 
the product(s) not otherwise excluded under this policy.
Product, products is defined as: The item(s) detailed under PRODUCT(S) COVERED 
shown on the front of this Certificate of Insurance.
The footstool is listed under the Product(s) covered on the Certificate of Insurance. 
I think it would be reasonable to conclude that a button accidentally becoming detached from 
the footstool as described by Mr R would fall under Acastas definition of accidental 
damage.
However, Acasta says this incident isnt covered. It says the definition should not be viewed 
by itself as a description of what is covered and needs to be viewed in the context of the rest 
of the terms and conditions.  It has referred to the following policy terms:
WHAT IS COVERED
Each cover type described below only applies if you have paid the appropriate premium and 
is shown on the front of this Certificate of Insurance within the section What is Covered.
i) STAINING UNTREATED
Accidental staining to fabric and leather upholstery, cabinet furniture, carpet and 
beds from any substance except; mineral oils and soot.
ii) ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE
a) Fabric and beds: Accidental damage resulting in a:
Rip or tear        Burn          
b) Leather: Accidental damage resulting in a:
Rip or tear        Burn          Scratch
Puncture          Scuff
c) Cabinet furniture: Accidental damage resulting in a:
Dent Burn Chip
Scratch Heat-ring(s) Breakdown of glass components
Mr and Mrs Rs certificate shows that ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE LEATHER and STAINING 
UNTREATED are covered.
Acasta says this means that the accidental damage section of Mr and Mrs Rs policy only 
provides cover for a rip or tear, burn, scratch, puncture or scuff to the leather. It says that it 
fairly declined the claim because the leather itself wasnt damaged.
I appreciate that Acasta believes that this type of damage isnt covered because the leather 
itself wasnt ripped or torn. But I dont think the policy terms are clear about this. Whilst the 
certificate says: ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE LEATHER, the policy terms dont say that only 
damage to the leather will be covered. It could reasonably be interpreted that any damage to 
the leather product is covered, unless its excluded.
Where policy terms are ambiguous or unclear, it is usual for them to be interpreted in the 
favour of the consumer. An insurer should be clear in what cover they are willing or not 
willing to provide. 
Having considered Acastas points, Im not persuaded that it was fair for it to have declined 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim for the reason it did.
Putting things right
Acasta should:
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and direct Acasta 
European Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman