DRN-3834760
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Calpe Insurance Company Limited handled and settled a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay him £3,900 for the loss of his car, 
after deducting the policy excess, and compensate him for the stress caused.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident and his car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
Mr W was unhappy with delays in settling the claim, Calpes valuation of his car at £6,000, 
that it scrapped the car without telling him, and that it deducted £540 towing and storage 
charges from his settlement. Mr W said he was kept on hold for long periods when trying to 
contact Calpes agent and that it was rude to him. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Calpes 
valuation of Mr Ws car was made correctly in keeping with our approach. She thought Mr W 
was aware that Calpe intended to scrap the car. She thought Calpe wasnt responsible for 
the delays in the claim as Mr W hadnt agreed to meet Calpes claims investigators for some 
time. And she thought Mr W had left the car in a car park where the police removed it. And 
so Calpe wasnt responsible for the polices storage charges. 
Mr W replied that Calpe was also pursuing him for premiums even after his car had been 
destroyed. He asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has told us that hed never heard of Calpe and was trying to contact another business 
about his claim. Calpes agents have been responding to Mr W on its behalf. Mr Ws 
complaint is about his claim and so Im satisfied that it should be raised against the policys 
underwriter, which in this case is Calpe. 
Mr W has raised further concerns about his premium. But I cant consider that here as he 
hasnt yet raised this with the business to give it a chance to respond. 
So Ive considered how Calpe handled and settled Mr Ws claim for the loss of his car. I can 
see that Mr Ws policy provides for his cars market value in the case of its total loss. Calpe 
said this was £6,000, before any deductions. This services approach to car valuations is that 
we dont provide valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Calpe looked for valuations for Mr Ws car in three of the trade guides we use. 
I can see that it looked for the correct make, model, age, mileage, condition and options at 
the date of the cars loss. Our Investigator also checked a fourth guide for a valuation of the 
car. The valuation provided by Calpe was at the top end of the range of the valuations found. 
So Im satisfied it was made correctly in keeping with our approach and I dont require Calpe 
to increase this. 
Mr W was unhappy with delays in the claim. But I think Calpe promptly instructed engineers 
and claims investigators to collect information to validate the claim. I can see that Mr W 
wasnt available for interview for a month. And then Calpe received the report a month later. 
It settled the claim the following day. Im satisfied that Calpe dealt with the claim reasonably 
promptly given that it was waiting for Mr W to provide a statement to its claims investigators. 
Mr W was unhappy that Calpe deducted £440 storage and £100 towing charges from his 
settlement. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
I can see that Mr Ws policy has the following exclusion from cover on page 16, that is 
further explained on page 14 of the policy booklet:
The Underwriters shall not be liable for
(i) Storage charges incurred.
I think this is a significant exclusion and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording, 
which it is, and in the summary or Key Facts document so its brought to the consumers 
attention. And I can see that the exclusion is set out in the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID), under what it not insured. 
After Mr W made his claim, Calpe sent him a letter asking for his version of events and his 
vehicle documents. The letter stated:
Please note that no storage charges are covered under the policy.
So I think the policy exclusion is clear and was reasonably brought to Mr Ws attention. I also 
think the £100 limit on towing was sufficiently highlighted in the policy documents. So Ive 
then considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Calpe to rely upon it to deduct the 
storage and towing charges from Mr Ws settlement in his particular circumstances.
From what I can see, Mr Ws car was returned to him following the accident. Mr W then 
parked the car in a long-term car park from where it was removed by the police. Two weeks 
later, the police notified Calpe that they had recovered the car as abandoned and Calpe 
collected it the next day. So Im satisfied that Calpe isnt responsible for the storage and 
towing charges incurred. And I cant say that it was unfair for it to deduct these from Mr Ws 
settlement. 
Mr W was also unhappy that Calpe salvaged his car without telling him. But I can see from 
its file that Mr W emailed Calpe two weeks after the accident asking when it would pick up 
the scrap. So Im satisfied that Mr W had asked for his car to be salvaged. And so I cant say 
that Calpe made an error in this.
Mr W was unhappy with long call times. And I can see that Calpe has apologised for this and 
acknowledged that its claims handlers lines are busy. Mr W said Calpes agents were rude 
to him. 
I can see from Calpes file notes that Mr W was frustrated with the time it was taking to settle 
his claim and his difficulties in speaking to anyone. But I can also see that Calpe did respond 
to his emails and the delay was, as Ive said above, due to the difficulty the investigators 
were having in making an appointment to meet Mr W and also to Mr W disputing the 
valuation. I havent been provided with any evidence to show that Calpes agents were rude 
to Mr W. So Im satisfied that Calpe handled and settled Mr Ws claim fairly and reasonably and in 
keeping with his policys terms and conditions. I dont require Calpe to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman