DRN-3521059
The complaint
Miss O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund transactions from her account that 
she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss O became aware that several withdrawals had been made from her account at an 
automated teller machine (ATM) in the early hours of the morning. Miss O contacted Monzo 
about the withdrawals and explained that she still had her debit card in her possession and 
hadnt allowed anyone else to use it.
Miss O asked if the CCTV could be obtained because she was at home at the time of the 
withdrawals, so it couldnt have been her that made them.
Monzo investigated the withdrawals from the ATM and found that it was Miss Os genuine 
debit card and her Personal Identification Number (PIN) that had been used to take the 
money out of the ATMs. Because Miss O had previously confirmed she still had her card at 
the time, Monzo declined to make a refund and held her liable for the withdrawals.
Miss O thought that her card had been cloned and complained to Monzo who looked at the 
evidence and wouldnt change their position. Miss O remained unhappy with how theyd 
dealt with her complaint and brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
Miss Os complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
information. Miss O explained what had happened and that she still had her card in her 
possession. She believed her card had been cloned.
Monzo provided audit data about the transactions and information about their investigation. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable from Monzo to hold Miss O liable for the disputed 
transactions because there was evidence that Miss Os genuine card and PIN had been 
used.
Miss O disagreed with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
She commented that shed tried to obtain the CCTV herself, but it was no longer available 
and thought that Monzo had let her down by not obtaining it at the time she reported the 
loss.
Miss Os complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Monzo can hold Miss O liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made 
them or authorised them.
 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss O authorised 
the transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Os account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. 
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions. It shows 
that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools issued to Miss O. Ill now 
need to consider if sufficient evidence has been provided to show that Miss O consented to 
the transactions.
Miss O believes her card had been cloned because she told Monzo she still had it in her 
possession when the disputed transactions were made. But Im satisfied Miss Os card 
wasnt cloned. Thats because based on what our service has seen, and the industry 
guidance available to us, we have yet to see a complaint where the CHIP on a card has 
been cloned. So, Im satisfied that Miss Os genuine card was used to make these 
transactions. 
In order to carry out a withdrawal from an ATM, Miss Os genuine card and PIN were used. 
Theres no explanation of how someone was able to obtain her PIN. Here, both the genuine 
card and PIN were used  making it unlikely it was anyone else other than Miss O 
responsible for the withdrawal. Thats also the case even if it the card was used by someone 
else with Miss Os authority. 
Miss O confirmed no one else had her card because she said it was at home, but the 
evidence indicates it was being used along with her PIN to withdraw cash. The card cant 
have been in both places at the same time and because theres no plausible explanation 
how someone had both her card and PIN  I think it was reasonable for Monzo to hold Miss 
O liable for these withdrawals.
Miss O was critical of Monzo because they carried out a short investigation and didnt obtain 
CCTV. Once Monzo determined it was the genuine card and PIN used, along with Miss Os 
assertion that she still had her card  Monzo were satisfied that Miss O was liable for the 
transactions. I dont think at that point their conclusions were unreasonable.
Regarding the CCTV  it wasnt Monzos responsibility to obtain the CCTV as they believed 
their evidence showed Miss O was liable for these transactions whether it was her or 
someone else using her card. As Ive explained  if the card was used by another person 
with her authority, she would still be liable. So, even if the CCTV had been obtained showing 
someone other than Miss O using the ATM, it still wouldnt answer how theyd obtained her 
genuine card and PIN.
Taking everything into account, I think it was more likely than not that Miss O was 
responsible for the withdrawals and it was reasonable for Monzo to hold her liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman