DRN-3116622
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc failed to comply with their 
request to send them copies of their credit agreements. They dont think their debts with it 
are enforceable. 
While Mr and Mrs N bring this complaint together, I shall for ease of read refer to Mr N as he 
has made the majority of the submissions. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N between them held four accounts with Marks & Spencer. In 2005, they 
entered a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with an organisation that assists customers with 
paying their creditors. As part of their DMP, Mr and Mrs N arranged to pay Marks & Spencer 
on a pro rata basis. In 2013, Marks & Spencer sold one of the accounts to a different 
business who I shall call A. Payments continued until around 2020 when Mr N says he 
received advice that their debts were unlikely to be enforceable, if Marks & Spencer couldnt 
provide copies of the original credit agreements. 
Mr N says that he had at points questioned whether he should be making payments to 
Marks & Spencer, but hed been persuaded to continue. And so, in October 2020 he wrote to 
Marks & Spencer requesting it send him copies of the original credit agreements and noted 
that if it didnt comply, this would render the debts unenforceable  he also stopped all 
payments.  
When Mr N didnt get a reply he wrote again, each time reiterating his request. Eventually, 
he felt he had no alternative but to raise a complaint.
Marks & Spencer looked into things and it issued a response in January 2021. It didnt think 
it had done anything wrong. In summary, it referred to the account with A and said,  
- It had very limited information about it;
- It had no record of receiving a request for the credit agreement until December 2020;
- It would provide a copy to A; and
- The enforceability of the debt was a matter for the courts and not the Financial 
Ombudsman Service;
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ns concerns, but she didnt think Marks & 
Spencer needed to do anything. These were her conclusions:
- The issue of enforceability wasnt something our service could decide. 
- The information Marks & Spencer had was extremely limited - this wasnt unusual 
given the passage of time.
- She had got a copy of the credit agreement for the account that had been sold to A. 
Marks & Spencer had sent this to A in July 2021. There had a delay in doing so due 
to covid. While she felt Marks & Spencer could have done more to keep Mr N 
updated about this, she didnt think this had caused any material distress and/or 
inconvenience. 
- In any event, Mr and Mrs N appeared to acknowledge they had accounts with Marks 
& Spencer. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed provided evidence of four accounts and not one. He felt 
Marks & Spencer had misled our service and the investigator had disregarded the 
information about the accounts. The credit agreement didnt have any terms and conditions 
attached to it and nor was it signed and dated. Therefore, it couldnt be said to comply with 
relevant regulation, specifically CONC. Based on this, he questioned how the investigator 
could be persuaded this was a copy of the original credit agreement or that it was genuine. 
The investigator didnt change her mind though she did add Marks & Spencer had located 
other accounts, a charge card and personal loan. However, it hadnt received a response to 
its letter requesting payment of a fee for processing the information requests. 
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
The first thing to say is that only a court can decide whether a debt is legally enforceable or 
not. Its not something I have the power to determine. With that said, even if it were to be 
found the accounts arent enforceable, that would only mean Marks & Spencer or a different 
entity might not be successful in certain legal action. 
The debts still exist and crucially here, based on Mr and Mrs Ns actions and their 
comments, I dont think they have suggested they didnt borrow money from which the debts 
stem or that the accounts arent genuine.  Indeed, for a number of years they made 
payments towards them after entering into a DMP. They also hold details about the different 
accounts involved as they approached Marks & Spencer about this. Taking all these points 
together, Im satisfied Marks & Spencer were and are still allowed to ask for repayment.  And 
therefore, whether the debts are enforceable or not, doesnt have a bearing on Marks & 
Spencer accepting their payments or asking for them. 
Turning to other key points. Mr and Mrs N wrote to Marks & Spencer in October and 
November 2020 (several times) requesting a copy of their credit agreements. Ive looked at 
the contact notes and these do indicate that Marks & Spencer only received notification of 
the request on the account held with A in December 2020. Also, theres nothing in the 
contact notes to say that a reply was received to its letter requesting a fee for processing the 
information request (on the other accounts). I can only assume Mr and Mrs N got this letter 
as they sent us a copy.  So, I cant say Marks & Spencer did anything wrong in not 
responding on the other accounts.
Ive thought about Mr Ns concerns in relation to the credit agreement hes now seen in 
relation to the account with A. It may or may not be enough to comply with the relevant 
provisions of CONC. But its of note that the account was sold around nine years ago so its 
unsurprising the information is limited. But, overall, I dont think that matters because Marks & Spencer arent seeking to take enforcement action on it because they no longer have legal 
ownership of that debt.  
Marks & Spencer might have done more to update Mr N about the delay in sending 
information to A. But I dont think this warrants any compensation. Because while chasing 
and awaiting a response would have been frustrating, ultimately Mr and Mrs N have been 
aware of the existence of their accounts. And one account was certainly with a different 
business (A). 
It follows I wont be asking Marks & Spencer to do anything more. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman