DRN-3269498
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I dont currently agree with the investigators
opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was over 14
years old and had already completed over 74,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would
expect quite a bit of wear and tear on a car of that age and mileage and if faults related to
wear and tear that wouldnt be something it would be reasonable to hold Close Brothers
responsible for.
The relevant legislation explains that if theres a fault with the car that isnt related to wear
and tear, and if that fault is reported to the business within 30 days, the consumer should be
allowed to reject the vehicle without granting the business an opportunity to repair it.
Mr R did complain about faults with the car within the first 30 days. Close Brothers system
notes show he complained about a fault with the rear differential; a wheel bearing; a burnt-
out indicator; an electrical problem, a headlight warning lamp, and a suspension control fault.
The dealership said there were no faults but did replace a taillight as a good will gesture.
They noted a couple of pixels were out on the LED and have supplied a video of that. There
are many LEDs in the cluster, and I dont think the video shows much of a fault. The
dealership have explained that wouldnt be a cause for the car to fail its MOT and I think that
sounds like a reasonable explanation.
So, Im not persuaded that on 11 November 2020 when Mr R asked to reject the car, that the
dealership needed to approve that rejection as I dont think a fault had been identified.
Close Brothers commissioned an independent inspection by a company Ill call A. A
inspected the car a couple of weeks after it had been supplied to Mr R and after he had
completed only about 543 miles in it. They could not detect any unusual vibration or noise
from the wheels and noted all the lights and indicators were in a serviceable, working
condition. They cleared historic fault codes and at the end of the test drive they noted a new
fault code had been logged for engine mount valve open circuit. They made no comment
about that fault code.
On 8 December 2020 Mr R commissioned a diagnostic on the car from a specialist
company. I think its fair to say they would be experts on the car although I accept they may
have been motivated in part by the potential for new business.
That diagnostic confirmed there was wear to several suspension bushes and a suspension
arm. It also noted that a wheel rim had been repaired although it didnt suggest this was a
fault. The report said the front brakes were worn too but didnt comment on whether this was
beyond acceptable; and that an exhaust clamp was broken. I think these were all examples
of the sort of wear and tear that would be considered normal on a car of this age and
mileage and I therefore dont think it would be fair to ask Close Brothers to do anything about
these issues.
The specialist also noted that a number plate lamp was broken. I think bulbs can fail at any
time and it wouldnt be fair to hold Close Brothers responsible for that issue.
However, the diagnostic also confirmed some of the problems Mr R had been complaining
about from the outset. It said there was:
vibration from the offside front wheel that needed further investigation;
a noisy rear axle;
a fault with the offside rear lamp unit. 
I think a reasonable person wouldnt expect any of those issues on a car, even one that was
as old as the car Mr R had taken receipt of.
Ive thought about why the issues werent picked up during As inspection; conducted only a
few weeks earlier. I have borne in mind that A was truly independent and had a sworn duty
to the court whilst the specialist wasnt. But I think its clear the specialist would have had
more experience with this type of vehicle. He has clearly identified the same concerns that
Mr R had been complaining about since he took receipt of the car. Its also clear that his
inspection was quite comprehensive. The mechanical inspection clearly involved an
underside inspection of the car as it identified worn bushes, a worn suspension arm and a
broken exhaust clamp. Ive not seen evidence in As report of any detailed inspection of the
suspension or underside of the vehicle. As report findings on these faults appear to havebeen made predominantly on the basis of a test drive. Im persuaded, on balance, that the
report from the specialist is more compelling and that there were problems with a noisy rear
axle, vibration in the offside front wheel and a fault with the rear off side lamp unit that were
most likely present when Mr R took receipt of the car.
The diagnostic also identified several electronic fault codes. Mr R has provided screen shots
of the results screen and pages from the report. I dont think this evidence provides sufficient
clarity on whether the issues were current or historic and whether they could be considered
wear and tear. So, Im not persuaded to tell Close Brothers to take any action about the
reports from that electrical test plan, but I am expecting to tell them to resolve the issues Ive
bullet pointed above.
Putting things right
Mr R has explained that hed like to keep the car but wants the problems fixing.
Im expecting to tell Close Brothers to investigate and resolve the problems with the noisy
axle, excessive front wheel vibration and faulty offside rear lamp unit.
Mr R has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes explained the problems have
had a significant impact on his mental health. Hes also had to organise diagnostics and has
had to take the car back to the dealership. In the circumstances I think the business should
pay him £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Mr R has only completed about 5,000 miles in the car in the first year of usage. Thats below
average use and I expect the usage of the car will have been impacted by the problems
Mr R continues to have with it. In respect of the lack of use Mr R has had from the car Im
expecting to tell Close Brothers to refund 10% of the finance instalments Mr R has paid
them. Theyll need to add interest to that refund.
My provisional decision
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Close Brothers Limited to:
Investigate and resolve the problems with the noisy axle, excessive front wheel
vibration and faulty offside rear lamp unit.
Pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund 10% of all finance instalments Mr R has paid and add 8% simple interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund the £220 cost of the diagnostic and mechanical inspection Mr R
commissioned to demonstrate the faults with the car. Add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment (8/12/20) to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt provide any additional information for me to consider but Mr R did. He 
said the vibrations may not have been obvious to A as they only occurred when the car had 
warmed up and when it was turning from a standstill. He provided a photograph to show that 
the rear lamp was still faulty and explained hed also had problems with a front light and 
several other issues with the car. He said the fault codes had all been reset before the 
specialist reviewed the car and the new ones were therefore clearly present at that time. He also explained that the specialist was aware that he was in dispute with the finance company 
about the car and was trying to return it. So, Mr R said they wouldnt have been expecting 
any business from him and were therefore quite independent.
Ive already explained that I have found the specialists advice persuasive and that I think 
Close Brothers should be responsible for the rear light repairs and the vibration issue. So, 
whilst Mr Rs comments about the specialists independence, the rear light condition and the 
vibrations are helpful, they dont change my opinion that Close Brothers are responsible for 
rectifying those problems. 
I was sorry to hear about all the problems Mr R has had with the car and I can understand 
how frustrating its been for him. On the evidence Ive been provided Im only persuaded that 
Close Brothers need to attend to the issues Ive already highlighted in my provisional 
decision. I understand the fault codes the specialist identified were after the system had 
been reset but, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded there is 
evidence those faults were present at the point the car was supplied to Mr R; and to ask 
Close Brothers to take even more action I would need to be.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
Investigate and resolve the problems with the noisy axle, excessive front wheel
vibration and faulty offside rear lamp unit.
Pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Refund 10% of all finance instalments Mr R has paid and add 8% simple interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund the £220 cost of the diagnostic and mechanical inspection Mr R
commissioned to demonstrate the faults with the car. Add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment (8/12/20) to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman