DRN-3199009
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Absolute Return Investment Advisers (ARIA) Limited (ARIA)
mismanaged his SIPP (self invested personal pension) investment portfolio, leading to an
early withdrawal of his funds and an early surrender penalty. Mr B was also concerned that
adviser charges had been overpaid. More recently hes said that the surrender penalty has 
been incorrectly calculated and is too high. 
What happened
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 
2021. In it I set out the background to the complaint and my provisional findings. For the 
reasons I explained I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. Ive repeated here the 
relevant sections from my provisional decision and which form part of this final decision. 
In brief, Mr Bs SIPP was set up in 2015 following advice from Mr Bs then financial adviser
to consolidate three existing pension arrangements into a SIPP and use ARIAs
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. In total some £493,000 was invested in the
DFMs model portfolio. Mr B had been assessed by his then adviser as having a balanced
risk profile and an objective of capital growth.
Mr B raised concerns in November 2016 about losses and that the risk profile of the portfolio
appeared to be higher than balanced. Mr B appointed a new financial adviser in early 2018.
In February 2019 Mr Bs new adviser emailed ARIA saying he hadnt been notified of losses
of about £57,000 or 12%. ARIA confirmed that losses of 10% or more shouldve triggered a
notification. In October 2019 Mr B told ARIA he and his adviser would be reviewing
performance and asked for details of a recovery plan to get the investment back on track,
failing which hed disinvest.
In late 2019 Mr B notified ARIA of his intention to close his investment and move his fund
elsewhere. In early 2020 £449,248 23 was transferred to a new provider and the residual
balance to Mr Bs cash SIPP. The closing balance (leaving aside investments which had
been held outside of the portfolio with ARIA) was £451,551.55.
At about the same time Mr B complained to ARIA about, amongst other things, poor
performance of his portfolio and unexplained losses. In its final response letter ARIA offered
compensation of £1,162.59. That was a refund of fees payable for switching strategies for
the portfolio. ARIA explained that fees had impacted on the portfolios performance. If fees
were discounted performance was 4.5% since inception. The fees included an ongoing
advice fee of 0.75% pa to his adviser. And if Mr B closed the investment early thered be a
penalty - £17,180.60.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. The investigator wrote to Mr B and
ARIA on 3 February 2020 setting out what he understood Mr Bs complaints points were and
what he thought about each issue  poor performance, poor communication, unexplained
losses, and Mr Bs further concerns following a Mr Bs discussion with ARIA on 13 February
2020.
The investigator thought some aspects of the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr B had
been overcharged and, at time, hadnt received the service he should have. In particular the
early redemption charge had been calculated incorrectly. ARIA had told the investigator,
when hed queried the charge, that Mr B had been charged £21,846.18 but he should only
have been charged £17,143.34. ARIA said it had raised the issue with the fund administrator
and a refund of £4,702.84 would be paid direct to Mr B. The investigator asked ARIA to pay
that plus any lost growth on that sum, calculated by reference to the funds the investigator
set out.
In addition, ARIA should pay Mr B £500 for distress and inconvenience. That was in relation
to the overcharge, and ARIAs failure to inform Mr B when losses on his portfolio exceeded
10% and delays in providing quarterly statements. The sums the investigator said ARIA
should pay were in addition to the £1,629.59 reimbursement of fees ARIA had offered in
relation to switching strategies in 2016.
ARIA accepted what the investigator had said. Mr B remained concerned hed been
overcharged for adviser fees. He said the fee schedule confirmed there was a 1.25% annual
management charge which included an ongoing advice fee of 0.75% which was the only
adviser charge hed agreed to pay. Mr B also referred to his conversation with ARIA on 13
February 2020. Hed been told that 7% was paid upfront to his financial adviser at the start
and this was recovered by ARIA at 1% per year so it was unable to waive what it had
already paid out. Mr B said he hadnt known about that, he hadnt approved it and he
wanted it to be investigated.
The investigator considered what Mr B had said. But the investigator didnt change his view.
He said Mr B had been charged the following amounts:
Transaction charges - £2,330.36
Early redemption penalties - £21,846.18
Financial Adviser charges - £15,245.22
Account fees (0.2%) - £4,065.41
Platform fees (0.3%) - £6,198.72
The investigator had spoken to ARIA to confirm the payments. Mr B had been charged an
ongoing advice fee of 0.75% per annum. This was the only fee he paid to his financial
adviser. This is also confirmed on the transaction statements as no other adviser fees had
been deducted.
The investigator went on to say that the main area of contention was the financial advisers
fees and the upfront payment to the financial adviser. The 7% was paid upfront by ARIA
under a separate agreement ARIA had with the adviser. The payment wasnt taken from Mr
Bs money but was paid for out of the fund Mr B invested in. Again, the transaction statement
confirms this as it doesnt show any deduction was made. The early redemption penalty,
which will be partly reimbursed to Mr B, reflects that he was invested in his portfolio for
approximately four years and therefore paid an early redemption fee as per the fee
schedule. Details of the early redemption charging structure were also confirmed on the
welcome letter Mr B was sent on 24 February 2016. The investigator said he could
understand that Mr Bs conversation with ARIA had been slightly misleading but it wasnt the
case that charge had been deducted from Mr Bs money.
Mr B was pleased his complaint had been partially upheld. But he said he still had a number
of serious concerns about ARIAs conduct which appeared to be unresolved. He made the
following main points:
ARIA had entered into a separate contract with his adviser at around the end of2015. Mr B wasnt a party to the contract but ARIA agreed to pay the adviser a sum
calculated at 7% of his investment so around £34,511. That was in addition to the
fees hed agreed that ARIA was to pay to his adviser  0.75% pa only. The contract,
the commission and ARIAs dealings with his adviser werent disclosed to him and
the arrangement was without his knowledge or consent. If the contract and the
commission had been disclosed, he wouldnt have proceeded with the investment.
ARIAs conduct was unacceptable and a breach of trust and fiduciary duty.
ARIA had said the contract and commission was a separate matter and the money
hadnt been deducted from his investment. That missed the key issue. The
undeclared advisers commission and the early surrender charge of up to 7% are
intrinsically linked. They coexist and cant be considered separately or in isolation.
ARIA always intended the early surrender charge to be an automatic compensation
and recovery for the advisers commission, in part or in whole, should redemption
occur prior to the seven year anniversary of the investment. The true purpose of the
surrender charge was misrepresented by ARIA in the documents Mr B signed at the
time of the transaction.
The advisers commission of £34,511 paid by ARIA is a significant sum. Its existence
and direct relationship to the early redemption charge shouldve been made clear in
the documents Mr B signed with ARIA. Those documents shouldve said an upfront
commission payment would be paid by ARIA to the adviser of 7% of the sum
invested which wouldnt be deducted from the investment unless early redemption
occurred prior to the minimum investment term of seven years with an early
surrender charge of 7% in the first year and reducing on a sliding scale of 1% pa to
the monies withdrawn. Had that sort of declaration been made, he wouldnt have
proceeded with the transaction.
ARIAs conduct and service levels fell below the standard which should reasonably
have been expected and disinvestment was reasonable in the circumstances. ARIA
shouldnt benefit from its own failure which would be unjust enrichment.
The investigator considered Mr Bs further comments but wasnt persuaded to change his
view. He said it was up to the adviser to make Mr B aware of how he was benefiting from the
sale and not ARIAs responsibility. ARIAs documentation made it clear that thered be a 7%
reducing charge payable from the investment (in the event of early redemption). As Mr Bs
investment lasted around four years he paid less than 7%. He was informed of the charges
specifically deducted from his plan. ARIA hadnt done anything wrong in not disclosing the
adviser charging structure to Mr B.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im in agreement with the views expressed by the investigator and the
reasons he gave.
As the investigator has said, in considering a complaint about poor performance and where,
as here, a DFM is involved, well want to be satisfied that the portfolio is in line with the
mandate given to the DFM as to how the portfolio is to operate, taking into account the
investors attitude to risk, investment objective and horizon or time span. I havent seen
anything to suggest that the investments selected and managed by ARIA for Mr B didntmatch those criteria, even if the portfolios performance was disappointing.
Its clear that Mr B was concerned as to how his portfolio was performing fairly early on  just
under a year or so after ARIA had been instructed. And there may have been some
suggestion that Mr B was uncomfortable with the level of risk and that he wanted to adopt a
more conservative approach. But that was something he needed to discuss with his adviser. 
Hed appointed a new adviser in early 2018 and it seems that Mr B, with his adviser, was
monitoring and reviewing the performance of the portfolio. But Mr B didnt decide to move
elsewhere until the end of 2019. That was despite ARIAs admitted failure to notify Mr B or
his adviser of losses exceeding 10%.
It looks like Mr Bs decision to move away from ARIA was prompted by further falls in value. I
dont doubt that the early surrender penalty featured in his decision to remain with ARIA. But
if, as hes suggested, his ongoing net losses (or the higher growth he couldve achieved
elsewhere) were extensive, hed have been better off disinvesting, despite the penalty. I
dont think ARIA is responsible for any losses or continued underperformance sustained by
Mr B remaining with ARIA for longer than he perhaps now thinks he shouldve done.
I can understand that Mr B wont have been happy to pay an early surrender penalty when
his move away from ARIA was prompted by what he regarded as poor performance and
other issues. But theres no dispute that the early surrender charge was brought to his
attention at the outset  in the fee schedule and ARIAs welcome letter. ARIA was
contractually entitled to impose the penalty. Despite Mr Bs disappointment with performance
and given that I dont think ARIAs portfolio was unsuitable for Mr B, I dont think it would be
fair to say that ARIA should waive the early surrender charge.
More recently, Mr Bs concerns about the penalty have centred on a payment or commission
paid to his adviser at the outset  equivalent to 7% of Mr Bs investment. I can understand
Mr Bs disquiet. And why he considers theres a link between the payment his adviser
received and the early redemption penalty that hes been charged. Ive looked into what
happened about the payment.
We asked ARIA for further information. We pointed out that there are restrictions on the
payment of commission set out in the regulators handbook  see the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS)  in particular COBS 6.1A (adviser charging and remuneration and
COBS 6.1B (retail investment product provider, operator of an electronic system in relation
to lending, and platform service provider requirements relating to adviser charging and
remuneration). We asked ARIA to explain why it considered it was able to make a
commission payment to Mr Bs financial adviser.
ARIA told us the adviser commission wasnt paid by it but by ARIA SICAV investment funds
which are regulated by MFSA (Malta Financial Services Authority) in Malta. The COBS rules
do refer (see in particular COBS 6.1B.5R mentioned below) to associates of firms which are
authorised and regulated here. Im not sure if its enough for ARIA to say it didnt pay the
commission itself. But, given what I go on to say below, I havent pursued that further.
COBS 6.1A sets out the requirement for the adviser to be paid for the personal
recommendation (and any other related services) by adviser charges. Given that Mr Bs
complaint is made against ARIA (and not his adviser) COBS 6.1B is more relevant. It deals
with other parties (including retail investment product and platform service providers such as
ARIA) responsibilities.
Theres a requirement in COBS 6.1B.5R not to offer commissions. And that prohibition
extends to associates too. So, as Ive said, it may not be enough for ARIA to say that it didnt
make the payment itself and when it seems to have been made by a sister company, albeitone that isnt regulated in the UK.
But theres an exclusion which appears to be relevant here: COBS 6.1B.4R says this section
(COBS 6.1B) doesnt apply if the retail client is outside the UK. My understanding is that Mr
B was in Dubai at the relevant time.
The upshot is that, from what Ive seen, there was nothing to preclude ARIA, or an
associated company, from making the commission payment to Mr Bs then adviser. And, as
far as Im aware, the onus wasnt on ARIA, having made the payment, to make Mr B aware
of it.
I can understand why Mr B says he wouldnt have invested as he did if hed have known
about the payment. But I think hed have to take that up with his adviser and any questions
about why the payment wasnt disclosed to before Mr B agreed to go ahead.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint but only to the extent set out by the investigator. ARIA will
need to redress Mr B in line with what the investigator suggested and which ARIA accepted.
That involves refunding the overpaid early surrender charge; working out (on the basis the
investigator suggested) if Mr B has suffered any loss in respect of investment growth; and
paying £500 to Mr B for distress and inconvenience. ARIA will also need to make the refund
offered in its final response letter. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Bs initial response focused on the commission payment. By way of background he said 
hed carried out due diligence and it was essential to him that both ARIA and the SIPP 
operator were FCA authorised and regulated. He was disappointed if it now appeared he 
didnt have full protection under a strict interpretation of COBS 6.1B.4R. 
Mr B suggested that COBS 4.9.3R could be relevant. Hed also reviewed ARIAs fee 
schedule, its terms and conditions and its welcome letter. Nowhere did ARIA refer to him as 
an overseas retail client or state that rules made for the protection of retail clients dont apply 
to him (either in whole or in part). And clause 1.10 says that ARIA classifies all clients as 
retail clients. Theres no distinction from or reference to overseas retail clients. Section 8 say 
that ARIA will treat you as a retail client giving you the highest level of regulatory protection 
available.
Mr B noted that the commission payment had been made by a company regulated 
separately by the MFSA. He said RIA shouldnt seek to avoid disclosure by facilitating the 
payment through another company and so circumventing the regulatory position. 
Neither ARIA nor Mr Bs adviser told him about the commission payment at the time. It 
shouldve been declared to Mr B. ARIA planned from the outset to make a significant 
undisclosed payment and then sought to guarantee its recovery via an early redemption 
charge. That shouldve been fully disclosed at the outset so that Mr B couldve made a fully 
informed decision. 
Mr B then raised a further query. He said his initial response was on the premise that the 
early surrender charge would hopefully be removed or fall away if it was found that ARIA 
shouldve disclosed the commission of around £34,500 that had been paid to Mr Bs adviser. 
But if that didnt happen then Mr B wanted to query if the early surrender charge had been 
calculated correctly. Id said, in my provisional decision, that ARIA had initially said the 
charge was £21,846.18 but had later said that was wrong and it should have been 
£17,143.34. But, by Mr Bs calculations, the charge should have been £13,842.35.We shared Mr Bs calculations and comments with ARIA. It didnt agree with his calculations 
and with some of the dates hed used. But it seemed that ARIA was now saying that the 
correct figure was £16,861.11 (and not £17,143.34). We double checked that with ARIA. It 
said that the correct redemption penalty was £16,861.11. It apologised for the discrepancy 
and said thered been an error due to a fund switch in November 2017.
Mr B remained unhappy with ARIAs calculations and there were further exchanges. It 
seemed the dispute centred on the starting figure for the calculation of the early surrender 
penalty. Mr B had said it was £462,895.35 whereas ARIAs calculations were based on a 
higher figure, £493,014.80. That was the amount Mr B originally invested. Whereas his 
figure was the amount he actually withdrew. 
We looked into the discrepancy. We noted that the fee schedule, which Mr B and his adviser 
had signed, said, about the early surrender charge: This percentage charge reduces on a 
sliding scale of 1% per annum and is applied if monies are withdrawn from the All-Terrain 
discretionary portfolio.
The fee schedule showed the investment amount as approximately £493,000. But the term 
relating to the early surrender charge referred to the charge being applied if monies are
withdrawn, which would suggest the charge should attach to the amount actually withdrawn 
and not the original amount invested. We put that to ARIA and asked if was prepared to 
agree, in the interests of settling this aspect of the matter, that Mr Bs figure, based on the 
amount withdrawn, should prevail.
ARIA, having reviewed the client documentation, agreed that it wasnt clearly disclosed that 
the early surrender penalty related to the amount of the initial investment. So, in the interests 
of resolving the complaint, it was prepared to accept Mr Bs calculations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered first the early surrender penalty. Mr Bs concerns here centre on the fact that 
commission was paid to his adviser without Mr Bs knowledge. And Mr Bs view is that the 
commission is directly linked to the early surrender penalty. Although Ive read and 
considered all Mr B has said, Ive focused on what I see as the key issues. 
Mr B has referred to COBS 4.9.3R. Thats part of the financial promotions regime, which is 
specialist and complicated. COBS 4.9 relates to promotions with an overseas element. The 
provision Mr B has highlighted sets out a firms responsibilities when communicating or 
approving a financial promotion (as defined) which relates to an investment or business of 
an overseas person. I dont think it applies in the context Mr B has suggested. Its more 
about an overseas establishment conducting business with a UK client and what needs to be 
made clear. I dont see theres any overseas element in terms of the advice and service 
ARIA, a UK regulated firm, was providing.  
Ive referred to COBS 6.1B.4R. My understanding is that ARIA may have been able to offer a 
commission payment as Mr B, although a retail client, was outside the UK. But even if Im 
wrong about that, ARIA has said the payment was made by a different company and one 
that was regulated by the MFSA. So no payment was made by ARIA. I note what Mr Bs said 
about the regulations not being circumvented. But, if the payment wasnt made by ARIA, 
then I dont think there will have been any breach of the relevant provisions. And I dont 
think, Mr Bs position as a retail client and in terms of the protections offered by dealing with 
a regulated firm, has been compromised because a commission payment was made.  Further, and as Ive said before, I dont think the onus was on ARIA to disclose the payment. 
Given that the payment was actually made to and benefited Mr Bs adviser, I think Mr B 
would need to ask his adviser why the payment wasnt disclosed. 
I know Mr B considers the commission payment and the early surrender charge are directly 
linked. Mr B has suggested the early surrender charge was a mechanism for ARIA to 
recover the commission payment made to Mr Bs adviser. But the early surrender charge 
was on a sliding scale, depending on how long Mr B remained invested. If the commission 
was a one off payment, then the early surrender charge wouldnt cover the full amount of the 
commission and which, in any event, wasnt paid by ARIA itself. 
Further, and in any event, theres no dispute that the early surrender charge was clearly 
disclosed to Mr B when he decided to invest with ARIA. I dont think Mr B can successfully 
argue that he shouldnt have to pay it and when it formed part of his contract with ARIA, 
despite his subsequent discovery that commission had been paid to his adviser. 
Mr B has said he wouldnt have invested with ARIA if hed known about the commission 
payment. But he did invest and hes had the use of ARIAs services over a period of some 
four years. And those services have cost him what he agreed to pay to pay ARIA  the 
commission payment didnt come out of Mr Bs fund. So I dont think hes lost out financially 
became the payment was made.  
Mr B may not have been entirely happy with ARIAs services and the performance of his 
investments, hence he decided to move his funds away. He took that decision before the 
commission payment came to light. I dont think any dissatisfaction with ARIA means Mr B is 
entitled to compensation on the basis that hed have invested elsewhere and differently. 
As Ive said earlier, in considering a complaint about poor performance, well want to be 
satisfied that the portfolio is in line with the mandate given to the DFM as to how the portfolio 
is to operate, taking into account the investors attitude to risk, investment objective and 
horizon or time span. I havent seen anything to suggest the investments selected and 
managed by ARIA for Mr B didnt match those criteria, even if the portfolios performance 
was disappointing and Mr B considers hed have done better elsewhere. 
Turning now to the early surrender charge itself, as Ive explained above, ARIA has said that 
it is prepared to accept Mr Bs calculations. Mr B has also said he hoped that ARIA would 
also adjust their own investment delays. I understand this to be a reference what Mr B had 
said about what had happened in late 2015 when the funds were initially transferred to ARIA 
and thered then been some delay. As ARIA has accepted Mr Bs early surrender figure and 
which hed calculated on the basis of the earlier investment dates, it seems this point has 
been covered. 
ARIA will need to refund Mr B the difference between the early surrender charge ARIA has 
imposed and Mr Bs figure.  ARIA will also need to pay any lost growth, calculated on the 
basis set out by the investigator. 
We also identified some service failings on ARIAs part. As well as calculating the early 
surrender charge wrongly, ARIA hadnt informed Mr B when losses exceeded 10%. Thered 
also been delays in providing quarterly statements. We thought ARIA should pay £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr B had been caused. I still think thats a fair amount, even 
though ARIA identified, after my provisional decision had been issued, a further error in how 
the early surrender charge had been calculated. 
ARIA will also need to make the refund of fees offered in its final response letter.  My final decision
I uphold the complaint but only in part. 
Absolute Return Investment Advisers (ARIA) Limited must redress Mr B as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman