DRN-4056242
The complaint
Mr T says that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has acted in a confusing and unfair way in 
relation to his whole of life policy, since it took over the operation of the policy in 2017. 
What happened
Mr T took out his MultiPlan policy in June 2001. It is a unit linked reviewable whole of life 
policy. It was taken out through a third party servicing adviser. The initial premium was 
£123.96. The policy provided a sum assured of £55,000, set up on a standard cover basis.  
In 2011, the policy was transferred from AXA Assurance to Friends Life. In 2017, the 
operation of the policy was taken over by Aviva.  
In 2019, Mr T discovered that the original servicing adviser that set up his policy had 
transferred to a different adviser in 2017. He later complained to Aviva about that matter, as 
he felt it breached his data protection rights  for which Mr T accepted £300 compensation.   
Mr T also complained about the sale of the policy. Aviva rejected the complaint about the 
sale of the policy in February 2020. It did, however, pay Mr T £100 for the delay in giving him 
an answer to his complaint.  Though I have included this information as background to the 
complaint, Mr Ts mis-sale concerns do not form part of this complaint, as it falls outside of 
our jurisdiction on time limits.  
In 2021, Mr T entered into correspondence with Aviva to clarify how his policy operated. 
On 31 August 2021, he made a further written complaint to Aviva. In summary, he said:
he thought he had taken out life assurance;
when Aviva previously answered the mis-sale complaint in March 2020, it had told 
him his policy also contained an investment element  but he doesnt understand 
what Aviva meant;
he also did not understand why his premiums had increased;
once Aviva finally confirmed in July 2021 that the policy could be self-funded  he 
took this to mean it was accepted that the flexible policy could be converted to life 
cover only;
so if his new policy would be term assurance  he sought to question what the 
premiums were;
the thought of the policy lapsing with no value leaves him very concerned. 
In September 2021, the policy was made paid up with effect from the following month; 
thereafter, premium payments ceased as Mr T had cancelled his direct debit.
In the interim, Mr T wrote to Aviva to explain he had made three calls in an attempt to speak 
to a senior manager, to no avail. He said Aviva had confused him about what he should do 
with the policy going forwards.
On 29 September 2021 Aviva rejected the complaint. It said:
the whole of life policy Mr T took out through his adviser at the time was set up to 
provide £50,000 of life cover;
to maintain this, he will need to pay monthly premiums for the rest of his life;
the premiums were chosen to be indexed at 5% per annum;
this option can be cancelled, but increasing the premium each year provides more 
chance that the policy reviews will be passed;
the premiums then buy units in the chosen fund, less the cost of the benefits;
at the time of writing Mr Ts premium was £328.93 per month, with the cost of 
benefits being £218.16;
the remainder of the premium was invested in the fund as described;
the policy is not a savings plan;
the main aim of the policy was to provide the benefits  in this case life cover;
reviews are undertaken in line with the policy terms to make sure that the premium 
covers the cost of the benefits;
age is taken into account at reviews, as life cover is more costly the older a person 
becomes;
the policy was currently on a standard cover basis, not a maximum cover basis;
Mr T had two options if he did stop paying the premiums:
oif no sum assured is required, the death benefit drops to the surrender value 
(because no further units are deducted for charges); or
oif the sum assured is required, the units will be sold to fund the chosen level 
of cover until the policys underlying investment fund is exhausted on a self-
funding basis;    
Mr T is receiving arrears letters because hes stopped paying the direct debit;
once Aviva received a written instruction as to whether to make the policy paid up or 
reinstate the direct debit, the arrears letters would no longer be generated. 
Thereafter, a series of written correspondence and calls were exchanged between Aviva and 
Mr T about the complaint outcome, including letters from Mr T dated 6 September 2021, 15 
September 2021, 30 September 2021, 6 October 2021 and 26 October 2021. 
Mr T first referred his complaint to this service in November 2021. In doing so, he supplied 
extensive documentation, detailing the scope of his combined concerns with Aviva and the 
ongoing correspondence I have referred to in the previous paragraph. I have read all of that 
evidence in full, though I shant be repeating it verbatim here. 
In summary, Mr T said:
he had ceased paying Aviva directly as of October 2021;
since Aviva acquired his policy in 2017, he had been subjected to many years of very 
confusing information, which in recent times has put a huge toll on his wellbeing;
he is appalled at the lack of joined up thinking by Aviva;
dealing with various complaints has taken a huge amount of time and effort;
his main goals were to pay sufficient premiums to meet a £50,000 sum assured and 
to have the policy converted into a life assurance policy;
so his complaint boils down to a concern that he has to keep paying premiums of at 
least £4,000 per annum for the rest of his life when he has already paid more than 
£50,000 to Aviva;
even though Aviva has now told him that he can change his policy, it still hasnt 
answered that one main query about paying more than £50,000 of premiums for the 
whole of life policy;it also hasnt explained why the investment pot will lapse with no value in the coming 
years;
he also queries why Aviva paid no interest on his policy premiums;
Aviva continues to provide misleading information;
he feels that the policy cannot be fit for purpose.  
 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but he didnt think it should 
succeed. He firstly noted that he wasnt able to look at the complaint about the sale of the 
policy, as that was not within the jurisdiction of this service. He was, however, able to look at 
Mr Ts various ongoing administrative concerns.  
He said that aside from the errors that Aviva had compensated Mr T for, he didnt believe it 
otherwise ought to do anything further. Specifically, he concluded that hed seen no 
evidence of Aviva acting outside of the policy terms in relation to reviews or administration.  
Mr T disagreed with our investigator. He said, in summary:
he was concerned to note that the investigator hadnt seen evidence to show how his 
policy could be changed before December 2021  when this had been the very crux 
of his complaint; 
it had corresponded with him from 2017 onwards;
but despite this, it hadnt given an adequate outcome to the administrative issue of 
paying premiums from his investment pot;
this was until December 2021 when Aviva then did make the change it had 
previously said it couldnt make;
his adviser had written to Aviva on 2 July 2021 to note the same, setting out how 
Aviva had provided inaccurate and ambiguous ongoing information;
Aviva hadnt properly compensated him for the four-year data breach though he had 
accepted the payment;
the policy he held was a MultiPlan Flexibility Policy  yet it was never operated with 
the flexibility he required;
he is hopeful that after the investigator requested it, that Aviva will now give him more 
information about the policy;
he still believes further financial compensation is appropriate. 
Our investigator revisited the complaint, further to Mr Ts additional submissions. However, 
he was not minded to change his view on the outcome. He noted that:
it wasnt possible for Aviva to convert Mr Ts policy from a whole of life policy to term 
assurance as he had asked for;
changes can be made in line with the original policy terms, but the policy remains a 
reviewable whole of life policy;
this service cannot investigate data breaches - but we could look at the impact of this 
breach on Mr T;
having done so, our investigator felt the payment Aviva made of £300 was a fair 
amount to address the upset Mr T had been caused;
he accepted the time that the parties had been liaising with one another, but his view 
remained that he felt Aviva had responded to requests in a timely manner;
he understood the frustration Mr T felt, but he didnt believe he ought to uphold the 
complaint or propose any further compensation be paid to Mr T.     
Mr T still rejected the outcome of the complaint. He made further, detailed comments. Again, 
I wont be setting them out in full here  though I have reviewed everything Mr T said. In 
summary, he set out:he wondered whether the investigator had truly reviewed everything on the file, given 
the extent of detail in all of his written submissions;
it still hasnt been made clear why Aviva perpetually refused to change his policy, 
then did so in December 2021;
his complaint therefore has been focused on why it took years after years to agree to 
his change of policy, and as a consequence caused him to overpay a substantial 
excess in monthly premiums;
his death benefit will expire when his investment pot reduces to zero  which isnt the 
life policy he came to expect he had taken out;
the policy he took out in 2001 wasnt just a whole of life policy;
it had built in flexibility that he hasnt been allowed to adopt;
he still seeks confirmation from Aviva that he can top up his investment pot;
it cannot be right that if Aviva refuses that action - even though by then he will have 
paid circa £65,000 in premiums for a £50,000 policy  that the policy will then lapse 
with a zero value;
he did receive the £300 but it was for trouble and upset  not the data breach itself;
he feels that he has sent very many unanswered correspondences, and he would like 
these reviewed in full;
it remains the case that between 2017 and 2021, Aviva left him high and dry  and it 
continues to be evasive right up to 2023 when it still will not answer clear questions 
about the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I also thank Mr T for the time and care he has shown in sending very detailed submissions 
for consideration by this service. I can see how strongly he feels about his policy, and that he 
has suffered considerable frustration when trying to seek information about it. I also 
understand Mr T feels this situation has adversely affected his health. 
Having considered things carefully, I do not believe that this complaint can succeed. I know 
that wont be the answer Mr T has hoped for; but Ill summarise why I have reached this 
conclusion below.  
We are not a court; and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I am not required to comment on each point or make specific determinations on 
every submission put forward by the parties. However, I can assure Mr T that I have 
reviewed all of the evidence on file. To that end, Ive included a summary of the background 
of the complaint in the what happened section of this decision. 
I recognise Mr T continues to feel that the handling of his information amounted to a data 
breach, but that isnt something I can make findings about. That role falls to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO), and Mr T can contact that organisation about data protection 
issues, if he requires.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me.
I realise that Mr T feels  and continues to feel  that the policy he was sold is misleading. 
However, the complaint made about the same of the policy is not being considered here. It 
does not fall within our time limits because the complaint was not pursued to this service 
within six months of the complaint outcome dated 17 February 2020.  
What I have otherwise looked at are the ongoing concerns Mr T holds about his policy, 
noting he feels that Aviva is persistently refusing to make a required change to the policy.  
I can see how in the course of many months and years of correspondence, matters have 
become confused. It was for this reason that Mr Ts most recently appointed adviser sought 
clarification from Aviva in July 2021, where it asked can you confirm that Mr [Ts] Life 
insurance Policy, with a sum assured of £50000, can be paid using the money he had built 
up in his investment pot? Although we have asked for this multiple times, we are yet to 
receive a clear answer. 
It is clear to Mr T now that he can indeed meet the premiums from the investment pot, now 
the policy is paid up. What that simply means is the policyholder isnt obliged to make any 
more premium payments.  However, the policys sum assured will naturally reduce over time 
once this happens  because each month the cost of life cover and charges will be deducted 
from the investment pot, without being replaced by the regular premium payments  
because they have since stopped.  
However, I have not seen any evidence that Aviva told Mr T that in doing so, he could also 
change the type of cover he holds from a whole of life policy to term assurance. 
I believe that in the complaint outcome, Aviva did give a clear explanation as to the nature of 
the policy. I realise that given the time and volume of ongoing communications, Mr T found 
this confusing. I will explain below the material differences between the two types of policy.
Mr T is asking for Aviva to switch his policy to term assurance  which is not the type of 
cover he took out. The policy terms for the MultiPlan he took out through AXA do explain 
how the policy has flexibility options which can be discussed with the adviser that sets up the 
policy. But it is correctly entitled as a whole of life policy on the policy documentation.  
The change Mr T requires is from a whole of life policy to a completely different type of policy 
 and that is not permissible within the policy terms and conditions. They are distinct types of 
policies; they arent interchangeable.   
Term assurance policies provide an agreed amount of insurance cover  life assurance or 
critical illness cover most commonly  for a set term which is the agreed number of years 
determined at the outset. It is the cheapest form of cover, and usually taken out as a form of 
protection for large financial commitments, such as mortgages and loans.  
Many insurers have a maximum age for which life assurance can be provided, and the terms 
are usually chosen between 5 and 40 years (though this may also vary). Importantly, if the 
policyholder survives the entire term, the policy ends with no value at all. 
Contrastingly, the policy Mr T holds is an investment plan  specifically, a unit-linked 
reviewable whole of life policy. It also provides life insurance  but not for a fixed term. 
Instead, it is designed to cover (if the policy remains in force) the entire policyholders life. 
Mr Ts policy is non-qualifying, which means there could be a tax liability if he surrendered it 
 but the policy has a surrender value; this is broadly the valuation of the investment pot, less applicable fees plus accrued bonuses if applicable. This is different to term assurance, 
which as I have said above, has no surrender value at any time.    
Mr T chose his lump sum assured of £50,000 at the outset and he agreed to pay regular 
monthly premiums. I know Mr T says these have now exceeded the sum assured, but that 
may be the case where a policy is held for many years. Part of the premium is used to build 
up an investment fund. The premiums Mr T pays are invested in Avivas MultiPlan With-
Profits Sub-Fund investment fund. Deductions are then made to pay for the costs involved. 
These include items such as providing the life cover and administering the policy. Any 
money not used for this builds up in the investment pot.
Given the length of time that the policy may be in force, a business made a judgment at the 
outset as to what premium will be required in the long term in order to provide an investment 
fund large enough to supply the chosen sum assured (n this case £50,000) until the 
policyholder dies. This will be based on various future assumptions about charges and 
investment performance.
As a policyholder gets older the cost of life cover can get much more expensive  so more of 
the monthly payment goes to pay for life cover and less is invested. Those life cover charges 
can exceed the amount of the monthly premium, and when that happens the money in the 
investment pot is used to supplement the premium to pay the life cover charges. 
It is for this reason that the business will then undertake a review of the policy from time to 
time, with increasing frequency. Mr Ts next policy review will be in June 2026. The purpose 
of the review is to test if the policy is able to continue providing the chosen level of life cover. 
The business will look at things like the amount in the investment pot, current mortality rates, 
and its projections for future investment performance. If the business decides the policy isnt 
sustainable at its current premium, a policyholder will usually be offered the option of 
reducing the sum assured or increasing the premium. This happened in Mr Ts case, as the 
policy failed a review in May 2021. 
Many types of reviewable policy offer a choice about how much of the premium pays for life 
assurance and how much is paid into the fund; these are usually marketed as minimum, 
standard and maximum cover. Mr Ts policy was set up on a standard basis, though I 
understand Aviva sent him a quote to show the costs if he changed to maximum cover. 
Aviva has explained to Mr T that a maximum cover policy is more likely to fail a policy review 
than a standard cover policy, which is correct. Thats because with maximum cover, the 
choice provides the highest level of life cover for the chosen premium. Consequentially, most 
of the premium will go towards paying for the life cover; only a relatively small portion of the 
premium will be left over to be invested. 
With standard cover, a larger proportion of the premium goes into the investment pot. I can 
see that Aviva has told Mr T the specific amounts at relevant times for him to know how 
much of the premium goes into the investment fund.  
I can also see that earlier this year, following a request from our investigator, Aviva has 
written to Mr T about the policy explaining more about the charges for the policy  and 
specifically the cost of life cover each month. It said:
The charges for benefits vary from month to month and depend on a number of 
factors including age, smoker status and sex of the life assured as well as the sum at 
risk (which is difference between the current sum assured and the fund value on the 
day of the charge). As this value will fluctuate on a regular basis, the charges will 
also fluctuate. For your information the policy charges taken last month were:Benefit Type
Death benefit (sum assured) charge - £249.75
The policy may also be subject to a monthly service fee and additional fund based 
charges (annual management charge and bid/offer spread). If these charges are 
applicable to this policy, the amount can be seen on the enclosed Policy Summary 
Statement.
The monthly service fee will not fluctuate monthly and will generally only change 
when the premium changes or as a result of a contractual review.
If a policy has a Paid-Up or Lapsed status we will consider reinstatement up to 13 
months after the first missed premium. The date of the first missed premium was 30 
October 2021 and is therefore unable to be reinstated. 
The letter also goes on to tell Mr T of the current surrender value of £19,624.32, death 
benefit of £57,045.19 and the fund value of £12,579.12. 
None of the information Ive seen is incorrect regarding the policy. Mr Ts options regarding 
the policy are to either continue it and allow the remaining investment pot to fund the 
premiums until it is exhausted (which is what Aviva described as self-funding), or to 
surrender it. 
Aviva says the policy cannot be reinstated now; however, I am aware that in his letter of 6 
September 2021 Mr T says he cannot conditionally restart the premium payments until he 
receives a satisfactory answer to his complaint points. It seems to be the case that Mr T did 
not recognise that the decision to make the policy paid up was irreversible after a certain 
period  and I have not seen clear communications that Aviva told him this was the case. 
Therefore, if Mr T now decides he wants to ask for reinstatement outside of the timescale set 
out within the policy terms, he can liaise with Aviva about that  and I would expect it to give 
his request fair consideration, given the position Ive set out above. That request, if it is 
made, does not form part of this complaint, as it has yet to take place. Accordingly, Mr T is 
not restricted from making a further complaint about reinstatement, if so required. 
Mr T can continue to engage the assistance of his chosen adviser in order to decide how 
best to proceed with this policy. But I cannot uphold his complaint because I do not believe 
Aviva has operated it unfairly; it is administering Mr Ts whole of life policy in accordance 
with the original AXA terms and conditions. The policy isnt term assurance, and it cannot be 
switched to that product. I therefore leave Mr T to decide how best to proceed going 
forwards, with my recommendation that he seeks independent advice, if necessary. 
My final decision
Though I know my decision will be frustrating for Mr T, I cannot uphold this complaint or 
make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman