DRN-3029179
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr K says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Mr Ks mortgage started in 1988  some 17 years before 
he took out the PPI. So I think it wouldve been clear that he didnt have to take PPI to 
get the mortgage. It looks as though Mr K visited a branch of Santander in August 2005, 
and during this meeting he and the adviser discussed property insurance (which is not 
the subject of this complaint) and PPI. Mr C signed a copy of a needs analysis form on 
which it states that he wanted to take out PPI. I also have a copy of a separate document 
setting out the reasons for the recommendation of the PPI. Theres nothing on any of the 
documentation to suggest Mr K wasnt given a choice about the PPI. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr Ks circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr K was eligible for the 
cover. And he said he wasnt entitled to sick pay from his employer, and had no savings 
to fall back on, so he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Ks employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr K says he had health problems some time before 
the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Santander to have recommended 
it. I say this because Mr K mentioned hed had a broken bone in 1986, and back 
problems in 1992, but there was nothing to suggest these had caused him any ongoing 
problems. So I dont think hed have considered it likely theyd be the main reason hed 
have needed to claim on the policy. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr K as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something had gone wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr K would have declined 
the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr K would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ks particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman