DRN-3379767
The complaint
Mr E complains that a used vehicle supplied by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited under a conditional 
sales agreement (CSA) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr E took out the CSA in February 2021 for a van with about 112,000 miles on the clock. He 
experienced problems very soon after - he found it was juddering on collection and lost 
power for a short period. He raised several issues with Moneybarn in March 2021 including 
juddering, acceleration and ECO system faults, a fuel contamination warning light and issues 
with stop/start. Moneybarn said he should return the van to the dealership for repairs and the 
dealer did some work to the van in May 2021. Problems persisted however and new issues 
appeared so Moneybarn arranged for an independent expert to inspect the van in June 2021 
 when it had covered about 118,000 miles. 
The expert found no evidence of misfire but a mis-fuel contamination message was 
illuminated, one of the fuel injections had (reportedly) been replaced and previous repairs 
were unsuccessful. He thought the vans condition was due to ongoing issues - not wear and 
tear  and the supplier was responsible. Moneybarn accepted the experts conclusions and 
asked Mr E to get a quote for repairs. Mr E struggled to do so - due to work and other 
pressures. But he supplied paperwork from a third party garage (TPG) in September 2021 
that showed more than thirty fault codes were present, the van had an oil leak, a possible 
wiring fault and further investigation was needed. Mr E says he was told this would be costly 
and uneconomic and he wants to reject the vehicle.  
Moneybarn issued a final response at the end of September 2021 upholding the complaint 
on the grounds of an inherent or developing fault at the point of sale and failed repairs by the 
supplying dealer. Moneybarn said it was unable to resolve the matter however because a 
quote for repairs hadnt been supplied. And it advised Mr E to stop using the van for safety 
reasons and to ensure no further damage occurred. 
Mr E referred the matter to our service and our investigator recommends the complaint 
should be upheld. Shes satisfied its not in dispute that theres something wrong with the 
van and it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. She acknowledged Moneybarn 
offered repairs but she doesnt think thats fair - as the dealer had the opportunity to repair 
already and shes not satisfied repairs would be cost effective or resolve things. She thinks 
its reasonable for Mr E to be allowed to reject the van and have his deposit (of £2,800) 
back, plus interest. She didnt recommend a refund for loss of use - as Mr E was able to 
travel about 20,000 miles or so after supply. But, she considered Moneybarn should refund 
one monthly payment to compensate Mr E for inconvenience and distress caused and 
remove any adverse information from his credit file. 
Mr E accepted the investigators recommendations but Moneybarn didnt so the matter was 
referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Moneybarn supplied this vehicle under a finance agreement and it was required under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure (amongst other things) that the van was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary 
depending on individual circumstances but its generally considered reasonable to take the 
age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into account in the case of a used vehicle. This 
van was around four years old, cost nearly £10,000 and had about 112,000 miles on the 
clock. As such, I think most people would accept it was likely to have some parts that were 
worn and would need replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower 
price paid compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. But, I think Mr E had a reasonable 
expectation that the van would be fairly durable. 
There seems to be no dispute that the van has faults present that are likely to have been 
there when it was supplied. From the evidence Ive seen (including the experts report) Im 
satisfied it was probably of unsatisfactory quality when Mr E got it. I can see Moneybarn 
offered to pay for relevant repairs but I dont think thats fair in the circumstances. The CRA 
says (broadly speaking) a supplier should usually be allowed one chance to fix things in this 
situation. And (according to Moneybarns contact notes and final response letter) the dealer 
had that opportunity in May 2021. It looks as if those repairs were unsuccessful - Im 
satisfied the van still had faults present when the expert inspected in June 2021. 
I find it understandable that Mr E is concerned about things that have gone wrong so far and 
the durability of the van going forward. Having considered the evidence carefully, Im not 
satisfied that the current issues are likely to be fixed easily. And, given the dealer has 
already had the van back once for work, I cant safely conclude that further repairs would 
resolve things without additional delay and significant inconvenience to Mr E. 
Bearing in mind the time thats passed since Mr E first complained, the extent and nature of 
the problems he had with the van and the efforts undertaken already to try and fix it, I dont 
think its fair to expect Mr E to wait any longer. I agree with the investigator it is reasonable to 
allow Mr E to reject the van and I find Moneybarn should terminate the CSA and refund his 
deposit (plus interest). 
It looks as if Mr E was able to drive the van some distance after supply. I understand he did 
so reluctantly but felt he had no choice - as he wasnt offered a replacement and he needed 
transport for work. I think its fair that Mr E should pay for the use he had of the vehicle. So, I 
cant fairly require Moneybarn to refund any monthly payments for loss of use. I think its 
likely however that Mr E experienced considerable frustration, upset and inconvenience as a 
consequence of being supplied with this faulty van. I find it is reasonable for Moneybarn to 
refund one monthly payment to compensate him for that. And I think its fair for Moneybarn 
to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited to:- 1. end the CSA and collect the van at no additional cost to Mr E; 
2. refund the deposit paid of £2,800, plus 8% simple interest a year from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement; 
3. refund one monthly payment to compensate Mr E for distress and inconvenience; 
and 
4. remove any adverse information from his credit file. 
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman