DRN-3620448
The complaint
Ms M complains about a term assurance policy sold to her by Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited Phoenix Life (previously trading as Pearl). She says the policy was mis-sold as she 
was advised to take out a policy that had a term of 38 years when her dependent was 
already aged 10.
What happened
Ms M was a single mother with a young child. In 1997, she sought advice from Phoenix Life 
for life cover that would provide financial protection to her family in the event of her death. 
Phoenix Life recommended she take out a Yearly Renewable Term Assurance policy which 
would run until December 2035, unless cancelled earlier.
The policy was set up to provide cover for a fixed term (up until Ms M reached the age of 
70), with the sum assured and premium being revised in in line with the amount of cover and 
Retail Price Index (RPI). 
In 2016, Ms M cancelled her policy, and in February 2022, Ms M complained to Phoenix Life 
via a representative. She felt the policy had been mis-sold and believed that she was given 
unsuitable advice to take out a 28-year term assurance policy when her dependent was 
nearing his teenage years.
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld and 
explained that he thought that Ms M did have a need for the policy. Ms M didnt accept the 
investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix Life recommended the policy to Ms M so it needed to make sure it was suitable for 
her needs and circumstances. In order for me to decide whether Phoenix Life did this, Ive 
reviewed the evidence available  including Ms Ms testimony and the documentation that 
was completed at the time the policy was sold.
Phoenix Life has shared copies of the fact find that was completed at the time. This records 
details of Ms Ms personal circumstances. Based on the information given, Phoenix Life 
recommended the Yearly Renewable Term Assurance Policy as suitable cover in the event 
of death during the term of the policy. From what Ive seen, Ms M was single, had a 
dependent and needed approximately £34,000 in cover. She also had very limited 
disposable income, so I think it was suitable for Phoenix Life to recommend term assurance 
cover as it is often the cheapest way of providing the required level of life cover.
Ms M has questioned why she would need life cover beyond her child being a dependent. 
Whilst I take her point, its quite normal to take out cover for a term that would end on or 
around the time when the policyholder may be reaching the end of their working life and not 
just when any dependent children have left home. As such, I think it seems reasonable that 
Phoenix Life sold a policy with a fixed term.
However, if thats not something she wanted, I think it reasonable that she would have 
discussed this during the sales process. Ive placed weight on the information contained 
within the fact find which most likely, would evidence what was discussed at the point of 
sale. But having reviewed the information documented, I cant see any mention of Ms M only 
wanting cover for a period she now mentions, so on balance, I cant conclude that the 
adviser provided unsuitable advice.
In any event, if Ms M had no further need for the policy, she was able to terminate the policy 
before the official expiry date, just as she did in 2016. This is information that I think she 
reasonably ought to have known as having read the policy documents, specifically the Key 
Features document,  Im satisfied the wording clearly explains that life cover would end if 
premiums stopped being paid or if Ms M contacted Phoenix to terminate the policy.
In light of everything Ive set out, Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation and 
there was a need for the life cover the policy provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman