DRN-4215173
The complaint
Mrs F complains that British Gas Services Limited failed to cancel her HomeCare policy and 
continued to deduct premiums from her bank account. 
What happened
In 2022, Mrs F received an email from British Gas notifying her that an engineer was 
on their way to her rental property to service the boiler under her HomeCare policy.
Mrs F was confused as she believed shed cancelled the policy back in December 
2020 and shed taken out cover elsewhere from that point. She discovered the policy 
had remained in place and British Gas had continued to take policy premiums from 
her account.
Mrs F raised a complaint which she brought to our Service. Our Investigator didnt 
think Mrs F had made a specific request to cancel her policy but as shed provided 
evidence of taking out cover elsewhere, he felt it was fair for British Gas to refund the 
policy premiums from December 2020, minus the costs of any engineers visits made 
during that time. 
Mrs F didnt agree with our Investigator. She said shed received no benefit from the 
engineers visit to service her boiler as her other policy had already provided for this, 
and shed seen no evidence that the visit took place. She said British Gas had 
incorrectly sent the policy renewal documents to her rental property, rather than her 
home address, so she wasnt aware that the policy remained in place. 
British Gas responded to say it had already refunded the policy premiums from 
March 2022 to October 2022, amounting to £180.53. It then made an additional offer 
of £262.73 for the remaining premiums from December 2020 to February 2022, 
minus £65 for the cost of the annual service. 
Mrs F argues that these calculations are incorrect.
Mrs F raised a further complaint about the length of time it took British Gas to 
consider her initial complaint. British Gas offered £40 compensation by way of an 
apology. 
As Mrs F hasnt accepted our Investigators findings or British Gas offer, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has provided screenshots of an email exchange with British Gas in December 
2020, which shows the following conversation:
BG:Thank you for your recent online application for a new HomeCare 
Agreement. As you currently have an active product with the same features 
as those in your application we have not taken any action. If you wish to 
discuss this matter further please call xxx.
Mrs F:I contacted British Gas and they told me the insurance was up on the 11th 
December so I waited until then to do this. I tried several times but it just said 
there was a fault at your end. I got fed up of trying and went with another 
company.
Im not persuaded this email gives British Gas instructions to cancel the policy, and I 
havent been provided with any other evidence to show me that Mrs F asked British 
Gas to do so. But I do think its clear Mrs F was under the impression that her policy 
had lapsed and that shed taken out a policy elsewhere, and this shouldve prompted 
British Gas to engage further and provide more clarification. I cant see that it went 
back to Mrs F following her email. But likewise, I cant see that Mrs F chased this up.
Mrs F has provided evidence of an alternative policy which she took out a few days 
before the email exchange above  which Im satisfied confirms that she thought her 
policy had ended. 
Mrs F says she had no reason to suspect the policy was still in place because she 
didnt receive any letters or policy documents from British Gas and I understand this 
had been sent to the risk address, rather than her home address, and her tenants 
hadnt passed on the correspondence. Whilst I appreciate this was the case, Im 
mindful that the policy premium was deducted from Mrs Fs bank account monthly 
which itself ought reasonably to have highlighted to her that the policy was still in 
place.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint for British Gas to refund the policy premiums from 
December 2020 until the policy was cancelled in 2022  and Im pleased to see that 
British Gas has already offered to do so, (albeit minus the cost of the annual service). 
I think its fair that British Gas has retained £65 toward the cost of the service. I 
appreciate Mrs F says she didnt benefit from this work because her new policy had 
already provided a boiler service. But I cant hold British Gas solely responsible for 
her policy remaining in place  because, as Ive explained above, I havent seen 
evidence that she cancelled the policy  so I think its fair for it to recover its costs for 
the works carried out. British Gas has provided me with evidence that this service 
took place.
British Gas has provided its calculations which show Mrs F paid premiums amounting 
to £534.05 between December 2020 and October 2022. When the cost of the service 
is deducted, this leaves £469.05 to be refunded. As such, there is a discrepancy of 
£25.79 when British Gas offers are deducted. British Gas has confirmed it will issue 
a cheque to Mrs F for this amount.
British Gas has also offered £40 compensation as an apology for the way it handled 
Mrs Fs complaint. Im satisfied this is fair taking into account the amount of time it 
took to resolve things and the impact this wouldve had. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint and directing 
British Gas Services Limited to:
refund the policy premiums from December 2020 to October 2022, minus £65 for the 
annual service, which amount to £469.05. 
pay £40 compensation.
If British Gas Services Limited has already paid any part of this offer, it can deduct that 
amount from its final payment to Mrs F. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman