DRN-4466462
The complaint
Mr R complains Wise Payments Limited (Wise) closed his account following a review. He 
also says Wise has registered adverse information against him affecting his ability to get 
accounts elsewhere. 
Mr R would like Wise to re-open his account and remove any adverse information its 
registered against him.  
What happened
In March 2023, three payments transfers were sent from Mr Rs Wise account. Wise 
conducted a review and asked Mr R for information relating to the payments. Wise closed 
Mr Rs account shortly after. 
Unhappy with Wises actions, Mr R complained. Wise didnt uphold his complaint, and in 
summary said that that due to financial regulations its obligated to complete checks on 
payments. And that this is also in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. Mr R says he noticed he hadnt made some of 
the transactions on his account. One of our Investigators looked into it and recommended 
that its not upheld. In summary, they said: 
- Wises decision to deactivate Mr Rs account was in line with its obligations, and the 
agreement he accepted when opening it 
- Wise is entitled to carry out a review and checks on payments Mr R made in line with 
its obligations and terms of account 
- Theyre unable to share Wises reasons for closing the account, but theyre satisfied 
it had enough grounds to do so
- Mr R mentioned transactions he didnt recognise on his account before the account 
was closed, and that someone had access to his phone to open a food delivery 
account. But Mr R has no evidence of this, and says he was watching what this 
person was doing on his phone. So, he would have been aware of any activity taking 
place on his phone. And he didnt report anything to Wise at the time 
- Wise hasnt reported any adverse information against Mr R 
Mr R didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He reiterated that he had done nothing 
wrong. And that Wise had registered or shared information which led to his other external 
bank account being closed, and for new account applications being declined.
Mr R then retrieved his credit and CIFAS report. Based on the latter report, he realised that it 
was his third-party bank who had registered an adverse fraud marker against him.  
Mr R still wanted his Wise account reopened and his complaint looked at again. Because of 
this, Mr Rs complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Wise, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Wise 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Wise carried out a review on Mr Rs account. Having carefully considered its reasons for 
doing so, Im satisfied it acted in line with its obligations and the terms of the account.
Wise is entitled to close or deactivate an account just as a customer may close an account 
with it. But before Wise closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Wise and Mr R had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Wise closed Mr Rs account the day after it began its review. Wise has provided this service 
with an explanation and information to show why it decided to do this. Having considered 
this carefully, Im satisfied Wise acted in line with its terms and conditions when doing so. I 
know Mr R would like an explanation, but Im not aware of any obligation under which Wise 
must. 
Mr R says he doesnt recognise the payments Wise asked him for information about. Mr R 
says he trusted a friend of a friend to access his phone at set up a food delivery service from 
it. He said he watched him whilst he had access which included his Wise app. Its not 
entirely clear if Mr R is saying this individual used his phone to carry out the transactions he 
didnt recognise. But if he is and given Mr R was with him and watching his activity, I find this 
unlikely. Nor has Mr R provided enough or plausible information to support this. 
Mr R thinks that his inability to get another account and his bank account being closed is 
because of Wise registering and sharing adverse information against him. Wise say it hasnt 
registered any such information. Mr R has subsequently discovered that adverse information 
has been applied against him by his third-party bank and not Wise. So I dont need to 
consider this point further.   
Mr R wants his account re-opened with Wise. But given I dont think it did anything wrong, I 
wont be directing Wise to do so. For the same reasons, I wont be making an award of 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr R may have suffered.    
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman