DRN-4141127
The complaint
Mr G complains about the information given by Hastings Insurance Services Limited when
he called to claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Gs car was hit in the rear, so he called Hastings to report the accident. Hastings took
down the details of the claim and said as the claim didnt appear to be Mr Gs fault it referred
him to its non-fault service to arrange for his car to be repaired. Mr G agreed to this, and
his car was collected and repaired.
When the car was returned to Mr G, he said it hadnt been repaired properly and had other
issues with his car. Mr G then complained to Hastings. He said the claim had taken too long,
hed been given incorrect information when he initially called to report the accident and that
his car hadnt been repaired properly.
Hastings reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. It said the information given in the
call when Mr G reported the accident wasnt correct, specifically that the garage the non-
faut service would use was manufacturer approved. However, Hastings also said it was
doing more than it needed to in sorting issues with the repair as it hadnt been involved in
repairing Mr Gs car. Hastings offered Mr G £100 compensation for the incorrect information
given. Mr G didnt think this as enough and referred his complaint here. He also said he was
being charged for a hire car which he didnt think he should have to pay for.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that Mr
G had been referred to an accident management company (AMC) rather than claiming on
his motor insurance policy. She also found that he hadnt been given clear fair and not
misleading information about claiming on his policy or using the AMC which had caused him
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But she thought it was fair and reasonable for
Hastings to say that Mr G would need to give the AMC the opportunity to rectify the issues
with the repair first. Our investigator recommended Hastings pay Mr G £300 compensation
for distress and inconvenience. Hastings agreed with our investigators findings.
Mr G didnt think the compensation was enough and said there was still issues with his car.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 May 2023 where I said:
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Hastings responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in
this decision.
Ive listened to the call Mr G had when he called to report the accident and note that its
answered by Hastings who then refer him to an AMC to handle his claim. As the AMC was
acting in its own right when repairing Mr Gs car, Im unable to look at the actions of the AMC
in this decision. So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the call
between Mr G and Hastings, when he was referred to the AMC for credit hire and repair
and whether Hastings met the required standards when referring him.
As Mr Gs insurance broker, Hastings was obliged to provide Mr G with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr G contacted Hastings to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his car, Hastings
ought to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could decide how
best to proceed with getting his car repaired.
Hastings has agreed it could have handled the call better but has said it provided Mr G with
his options clearly and informed him. I disagree, while Hastings has referred Mr G to its
non-fault service its not clearly explained what this means or how it differs from claiming
on his motor insurance policy. I say this because Mr G asked for information about which
garage would repair his car as it was under warranty and Hastings confirm it would be
repaired using manufacturing approved parts. Hastings has said that if hed wanted to use
his own garage then he would need to pay double his normal excess. This is then corrected
later in the call and says his policy doesnt have that term. It then goes onto say he wouldnt
need to pay his excess but doesnt explain why. Its also not explained that using the non-
fault service is separate to his motor insurance policy or what the pros and cons of this are
or that hes stepping outside of his regulated insurance contract and the implications this
has.
Im not satisfied Hastings gave Mr G clear, fair and not misleading information during this
call, so Ive looked at the impact of this. When Hastings referred Mr G to the AMC Mr G
explained he hadnt heard of the AMC he was being referred to doing car repairs and wanted
to do his own research before agreeing. After he looked into the AMC, Mr G agreed to being
referred there. Mr G has also told us that he needed a like for like car and that he even had
to push this with the AMC. As Mr G has told us he needed a like for like car and looked into
the AMC before agreeing to it, I believe its most likely he would still have used the AMC if
Hastings had given him sufficient information when referring him.
When Mr G had issues with the repair and the claim hes contacted Hastings about it, and
while Hastings has tried to help in this situation, the poor referral has caused Mr G additional
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I say this as Mr G has been contacting Hastings
rather than the AMC. Hastings has agreed to a total of £300 compensation for the distress
and inconvenience caused during that call and also tried to help Mr G with his issues with
the AMC when it doesnt need to do so, as hes not claimed on his insurance policy. Im
satisfied £300 is fair and reasonable amount for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience
Hastings caused, so Hastings needs to pay Mr G £300 if not already done so.
I understand Mr G is also unhappy about how his claim has been handled and the repairs
completed to his car by the AMC. As explained above, while I understand is frustration, as
this is an issue with the AMC, he would therefore need to raise it with them.
Hastings responded and said it didnt have any further comment as it had already agreed to 
£300 compensation. 
Mr G provided a detailed response and didnt agree with my provisional decision. In 
summary he said Id based my decision on information given during a call with our 
investigator and didnt agree Id looked at all of the evidence. He also said my decision 
missed his complaint point, specifically that he was guaranteed his car was going to a 
manufacturing approved garage. Mr G clarified that he wasnt unhappy with Hastings using 
an AMC, but that Hasting had mis sold him information. Mr G then went on to explain the 
issues with the repair to his car which he wasnt happy with. I asked our investigator to clarify with Mr G that when deciding the amount of compensation 
Hasting should pay. That I had considered that Hastings had apologised for saying his car 
would go to a manufacturing approved garage. I also asked our investigator to clarify that Id 
considered the information Hastings had given during that call as a whole rather than 
focusing on one specific statement. And, as Hastings had referred him outside of his motor 
insurance policy, I was unable to consider the actions of the AMC in this decision and could 
only consider Hastings actions in relation to what its regulated for and things ancillary to 
that. Mr G didnt reply to the further clarification. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Gs response and its not persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
decision. I say this because I agree with Mr G that Hastings didnt give him clear, fair and not 
misleading information when it referred him to an AMC. Hastings has already apologised for 
saying his car would go to a manufacturer approved garage, and so I dont intend to make a 
further finding on that. Im also satisfied there was more Hastings should have done during 
that call, but didnt, and this is reflected in the payment Hastings should make for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
In regard to my assessment of Mr Gs complaint, I would like to reassure him that Ive 
considered all of the information provided. This includes phone conversations with this 
service and what hes said during to us, but my decision is not limited to that. And for the 
reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied its most likely Mr G 
would have still used the AMC. Im therefore not persuaded to depart from the findings 
above and in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr G £300
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman