DRN-3132460
The complaint
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have a business Ill refer to as V. Mr H1 and Mr H2 have complained that 
Zenith Insurance plc unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after V 
was forced to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr H1 and Mr H2 held a business interruption insurance policy with Zenith. They claimed on 
their policy after closing V in March 2020. They said they decided to close V before the 
Governments announcement in consideration of the safety of staff and customers. 
Zenith said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, V had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As Zenith thought V had closed in response to the national lockdown,
rather than because someone at their premises had Covid-19, Zenith turned down Mr H1 
and Mr H2s claim.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 complained to Zenith. They thought the policy should provide cover for the 
circumstances of their claim because both staff and customers had been affected by Covid-
19. Zenith didnt think Mr H1 and Mr H2 had shown that V closed as a result of Covid-19 
manifesting at Vs premises, so Zenith refused to change their decision. 
Mr H1 and Mr H2 were unhappy with Zeniths response and brought their complaint to our 
service. They said it was impossible to know if anyone had Covid-19 at that time due to a 
lack of testing but said a number of people had been on the premises who had most likely 
had Covid-19. This included:
An employee (who Ill refer to as D) who was working at V and their mother who had 
Covid-19
An employee who had recently been in for an interview was asked to self-isolate as 
their partner had symptoms of Covid-19 and later experienced their own symptoms
A customer (who Ill refer to as E) who works for the NHS tested positive for Covid-19
A large crowd watching a football match being shown on a screen
As a result of this, Mr H1 and Mr H2 said they took the decision to carry out a deep clean 
and close V. Mr H1 and Mr H2 provided a screenshot of a message from D which said they 
had been required to self-isolate as their mother and brother had symptoms of Covid-19. 
Our investigator looked into Mr H1 and Mr H2s complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld 
as he thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case 
manifesting itself at the premises. And he didnt think he was able to conclude that there 
had most likely been someone displaying symptoms of Covid-19 at Vs premises.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 asked for an ombudsmans decision as they said theyd taken the decision 
to close based on having such a high risk of Covid-19 at Vs premises. They didnt think it 
was fair that they were required to show it was most likely someone at Vs premises had 
Covid-19 given that widespread testing wasnt available. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have made a number of detailed points. I dont intend to comment on 
every point and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central issues of this 
complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on
V. However, Im not going to uphold Mr H1 and Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to
see if Zenith have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the
policy when declining Mr H1 and Mr H2s claim.
The policy covers business interruption loss in consequence of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on
the business premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the
information I have to decide if I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19
manifesting itself at Vs premises.
I think that a court would most likely interpret the word manifesting to mean that someone 
had displayed symptoms of the disease or been diagnosed with it. And as this extension 
requires the disease to have manifested itself at the premises, I think the symptoms or 
diagnosis would need to have been present while the person with Covid-19 was at Vs 
premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19,
save for emergencies. Therefore, its rare that a business will be able to produce a positive
test result from that period. So, to treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my view, be 
unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 manifested itself at the
insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the
insured to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
Mr H1 and Mr H2 have provided testimony to support that both employees and customers 
had Covid-19 and have provided a screenshot from D explaining why they wont be at work. 
However, the screenshot says that D needs to self-isolate as their mother and brother have 
symptoms of Covid-19. D also says that they dont have any symptoms at that time, which 
indicates that they didnt have any symptoms or a diagnosis while at Vs premises. I havent seen anything from any of the other employees or customers and Mr H1 and        
Mr H2s testimony isnt enough in this case to persuade me its most likely they had 
symptoms or a diagnosis of Covid-19 at Vs premises. I have taken into account that a large 
crowd watched a football match on the screen, but I have to bear in mind that most people at 
this time didnt have Covid-19 and I havent seen anything to persuade me that any of these 
were displaying symptoms of Covid-19.
I recognise that Mr H1 and Mr H2 acted with the intention of keeping staff and customers 
safe. However, to uphold their complaint, Id need to decide that it was more likely than not 
that someone at Vs premises was either displaying symptoms of Covid-19 or had been 
diagnosed with Covid-19. In this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to indicate that 
anyone had symptoms of Covid-19 or had a diagnosis of it whilst at Vs premises.
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to Mr H1 and Mr H2 but, having 
considered this matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Zenith to pay their 
claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman