DRN-2644301
Complaint
Mr R complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) removed him from a joint 
account he held with his partner without his consent.
  
Background
Mr R held a joint current account with his partner. In 2019, they separated, and that account 
was changed so that it was held in his ex-partners sole name. Mr R says he didnt agree to 
this change. Furthermore, he says payments were made into that account after this point 
that he couldnt access, including payments received from a former employer. From what Mr 
R has told us, this change to his account took place before he was aware of the end of his 
relationship with his partner.
Mr R complained to the Co-op that this change took place without his consent. It responded 
by saying that the correct process had been followed in making this change and that the 
right document was completed. That document required signatures from both Mr R and his 
ex-partner. Two signatures were provided and one of those was an approximate match for 
Mr Rs signature, so there was no obvious reason to doubt that this was a legitimate request 
made with the consent of both account holders. Overall, the Co-op was satisfied that it had 
followed the correct process and so didnt think it had done anything wrong in processing the 
change.
Mr R wasnt happy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The investigator noted that Mr R had complained 
that payments had been made into the account of funds that belonged to him (e.g. those that 
were received from his former employer). However, the question as to entitlement to the 
funds in the account wasnt something that this service could come to a finding on. Mr R had 
been married and would be going through divorce proceedings. Any decision about the 
proper division of these assets would have to be considered in court.  
However, the investigator thought it was likely Mr R hadnt agreed to this change. She 
thought that, if the Co-op had been more careful, its likely theyd have prevented it from 
happening at the time that it did. The fact that it failed to do so caused avoidable distress 
and inconvenience to Mr R. The investigator said that the Co-op should pay £200 in 
recognition of that distress and inconvenience.
The Co-op disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said that it had followed the correct 
process when it received the mandate requesting the change to the account. Because the 
Co-op disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and issue a final decision.  
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons given in the investigators view, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a 
finding as to how the funds in the joint account should be divided between Mr R and his ex-
partner. Nonetheless, Im persuaded that the Co-op ought to have taken greater care to 
ensure that the request Mr R be removed from the joint account was a legitimate one.
I think there is some doubt as to whether the mandate has really been signed by Mr R. Ive 
compared it carefully with the one the Co-op had on file. And although the differences 
between the two are subtle, I think they are significant enough that they ought to have been 
considered more carefully by the Co-op employee responsible for processing the form. 
Removing a joint account holder is a significant action to take.  Once Mr R was removed 
from the account, he lost any right to withdraw funds from it. I dont think an application to 
change the status of the account shouldve been processed without careful consideration.
I also find it significant that it was Mr Rs partner who had requested the documentation to 
make this change. That, in addition to the subtle differences between the two signatures, 
persuades me that the Co-op ought to have contacted Mr R to ensure he was aware of the 
changes.
From all the evidence Ive seen (including the testimony of Mr R), I think its more likely than 
not that he wasnt aware of the change. I say that because he attempted to use the account 
after the form had been processed and appeared to be surprised by the change. He also told 
the investigator that, at that point, hed not formally separated from his partner so there was 
a strong possibility the change was carried out without his consent.
If the Co-op had contacted him, I think its likely it wouldve recognised Mr R wasnt aware of 
the change and so it wouldnt have taken place (or at least wouldve been delayed). The 
impact this failing had on Mr was significant. He was locked out of a joint account without his 
knowledge and lost access to payments from his previous employer. The impact was 
mitigated by the fact that he had access to an alternative account. Nonetheless, I agree with 
the investigators conclusion that £200 is an appropriate amount of compensation in all the 
circumstances here.    
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint.
The Co-operative Bank Plc should now pay £200 to Mr R without delay.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman