DRN-3368845
The complaint
Mr Q complains that AIS Pensions LLP (AIS) has charged him 0.5% of his pension fund 
since 2015 without providing any services to justify the fees. He says he chooses his own 
investments and hasnt received any advice, valuations or performance analysis of any kind 
from AIS, so he would like those charges  which he says amount to over £9,000 - to be 
refunded, along with the investment growth that he would have achieved if the charges 
hadnt been taken from his fund.  
What happened
Mr Q took out a personal pension plan (PPP) through AIS in April 1989. AIS said it provided 
Mr Q with regular servicing and reviews while he held the plan. It received initial 
commission from the provider in respect of both the regular and single contributions Mr Q 
made to the plan.
In 2001 AIS recommended that Mr Q transfer his PPP to a new platform. Instead of receiving 
the platforms maximum initial commission payment of 5.4%, AIS opted to take a reduced 
payment of 2.25% - which it agreed to take on a deferred basis at the rate of 0.5% per year 
instead of as an upfront payment.
In 2015 AIS recommended a transfer to the providers unbundled platform and then to 
another platform which offered clean shares. It didnt receive an initial fee for the transfers 
but agreed with Mr Q to replace the previous 0.5% deferred commission payment with a new 
0.5% servicing fee  which it continued to receive.
In early 2021 Mr Q wanted to withdraw funds from his plan and approached AIS for help. 
During the process AIS provided Mr Q with a suitability report and Mr Q noted from a 
paragraph about reviews and ongoing service, that he had been charged an ongoing 
service fee in respect of this. He asked AIS why he had been charged as he said he hadnt 
received any reviews or service for years. 
AIS explained the history of the charges levied since 1989, but also confirmed that he could 
turn off the 0.5% servicing fee if required. It said it would then treat him as a direct client. 
At that time the SIPP was valued at £443,989.74.
But in March 2021 Mr Q complained. He said he didnt think he had received any advice, 
analysis or valuation in the last five years  so he didnt think it was fair for AIS to have 
charged him any fees. He said that he wished to terminate his relationship with AIS and 
wanted a refund of the fees hed paid. 
In March 2021 AIS responded to Mr Qs complaint. It said that Mr Q had been aware of its 
adviser fees and had the opportunity to query or dispute them  but hadnt done so until 
now. However, it offered him the sum of £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill so that their 
relationship could end amicably. 
Mr Q remained unhappy with AIS response so he brought his complaint to us where one of 
our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think AIS needed to refund any charges 
to Mr Q as she thought that it made him aware of its service charge within the 2015 
suitability report. She thought that AIS had deducted its fee in line with how it said it would. 
She also said that it wasnt our role to comment on the level of fees charged  as long as 
they had been explained to the consumer.  She confirmed that she thought AIS offer of a 
goodwill payment was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Q didnt accept the outcome. He said there was no evidence of the services AIS had 
provided to justify its charges. He thought we ought to have investigated which services had 
been provided. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been 
passed to me to review.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I recognise this an 
outcome that will disappoint Mr Q as Ive seen the strength of his feelings on the matter. But 
I dont think AIS has done anything wrong here  so Im not going to ask it to refund any of 
Mr Qs adviser charges.
Was Mr Q made aware of the fees during the term of his plan?
When Mr Q took out his first PPP in 1989 the charging structure at the time was that 
providers paid commission to an adviser based on any regular or single contributions that 
were paid to a plan. This wasnt a charge that could be negotiated but was paid by the 
provider regardless  there was no facility to include a servicing charge and the 
commission wasnt in lieu of any ongoing services AIS had to provide. 
Thereafter in 2001, when AIS recommended that Mr Q transferred to new plan, it decided to 
receive the commission  which could have been up to a maximum of 5.4% - as a 0.5% 
annual deferred ongoing fee. Importantly, this too wasnt in lieu of any ongoing services and, 
as explained by AIS, it would have been paid to the provider even if AIS had turned off that 
commission. So it wouldnt have made any difference to the fees deducted from Mr Qs plan.
By 2015, when AIS recommended a transfer to a new platform, the Retail Distribution 
Review had been implemented and the payment of commission had been outlawed. So 
firms had to charge consumers in different ways from that time. This meant that in 2015 AIS 
had to make Mr Q aware of its charging structure going forward and agree a strategy with 
him. AIS didnt charge Mr Q any upfront fees for the transfers it carried out in 2015.  It 
explained to Mr Q that, as it had been previously receiving 0.5% deferred commission from 
the SIPP provider, it would continue that arrangement  with his agreement, going forward. It 
says it also offered Mr Q the option of signing up to its centralised investment proposition 
(CIP) for an additional 0.25%. 
So Ive begun by looking carefully at AIS client agreement that set out this strategy. The 
agreement had a section entitled payment for services which explained this. The first part 
set out AIS hourly rate fees and the alternative of tiered percentage fees for initial advice. 
The next section looked at ongoing service fees and explained that, AIS Pensions 
provides ongoing service on pensions, ISAs and other non-tax wrap Collective investments; 
based on our Centralised Investment Proposition: AIS Consensus Portfolios. Consensus 
Portfolio management carries an annual fund based fee of 0.75% paid monthly at 1/12th of 
0.75%. Portfolios outside of Consensus are charged at 0.50% per annum paid monthly at 
1/12th of 0.50%. The portfolio service we recommend, along with the applicable fees, will be explained in our initial and post sales agreement. Termination of our services (Ongoing 
Advice). You have the right to cancel payment for ongoing services (such portfolio 
management services), and any fees paid to us after receipt of your written notification will 
be refunded.
So, I think this made it clear that AIS would usually charge 0.75% as an ongoing fee for its 
CIP clients and 0.5% for all other clients. It also noted that these ongoing fees could be 
terminated at any time in writing. I think this supports the claim that AIS did make Mr Q 
aware of its ongoing fees. But this position was also confirmed in the suitability report that 
AIS sent Mr Q which, in the AIS remuneration section said, we confirm that the new (plan) 
will not be subject to an initial fee. Since you do not partake in the Consensus portfolio 
service, AISs general servicing and management fee remains unchanged at 0.50% per 
annum.
This was a more personal explanation of the fees Mr Q would be charged and I think was 
very clear in making him aware that he had agreed to  as was confirmed by AIS in its 
dialogue with him - and would pay 0.5% of his fund as a fee going forward. The report also 
asked Mr Q to return the advisor fee authorisation form and the client agreement  which 
he did sign and return on 15 July 2015, so I think again he was aware of the charge at that 
time. The following month the SIPP provider wrote to Mr Q confirming that, We are writing 
to confirm that the following fees are currently payable to your financial adviser from your 
account: Servicing fee, 0.50% each year, divided by 12 and paid monthly. We will meet the 
servicing fee by selling units from the largest fund in your account. 
So when taken either individually or collectively, I think the evidence would support the claim 
that AIS did make Mr Q aware of the ongoing service fee it would apply and the amount that 
would be deducted from his plan. And I think the evidence would also support the idea that 
Mr Q agreed to the payment. 
But Mr Q has also complained about the services he received in respect of these fees. He 
says AIS didnt do anything to justify its charges. So Ive gone onto look at what service, if 
any, AIS should have provided Mr Q.  
Did AIS provide the services it said it would in relation to its fees?
In his complaint to AIS Mr Q said, according to my records I can't find any advice, analysis 
or valuations provided by you in over five years. He didnt understand therefore how AIS 
could justify charging him any fees. In his submissions to us Mr Q has asked us to confirm 
the services that AIS did provide which justified charging the fees. 
So Ive gone back to the client agreement and carefully considered what AIS said in relation 
to the services it would provide in respect of the 0.5% charge. The relevant section of the 
agreement says that, AIS Pensions provides ongoing service on pensions, ISAs and other 
non-tax wrap Collective investments; based on our Centralised Investment Proposition: AIS 
Consensus Portfolios. 
I think this supports the view that ongoing services were only provided for CIP clients  
which is consistent with what AIS has previously maintained. Ive also noted that that AIS 
gave Mr Q the option of paying the additional 0.25% for that service, until it understood that 
he would be self managing his SIPP and wouldnt benefit from its own portfolio investment 
proposition. 
The client agreement then confirmed that, Portfolios outside of Consensus are charged at 
0.50% per annum paid monthly at 1/12th of 0.50%.There was no suggestion that any 
services were offered in respect of these portfolios and that wouldnt support Mr Qs claim 
that he expected some ongoing services to be provided. Theres no evidence to suggest that he was told he would receive any ongoing services. And this was confirmed in the suitability 
report which said that, Since you do not partake in the Consensus portfolio service, AISs 
general servicing and management fee remains unchanged at 0.50% per annum. This 
referred to a general servicing fee  which I think is what AIS provided Mr Q.
During the period that Mr Q has referred to, AIS remained available as his adviser, and there 
were other reasons to conclude that it did act for him on some occasions and that he did 
receive some ongoing information about his plan. 
Ive seen for example that AIS contacted Mr Q in 2017 to confirm that its investment 
proposition hadnt outperformed his own investments, and the adviser has confirmed that it 
carried out this comparison for Mr Q most years and would have made him aware if it 
thought he should consider transferring to its CIP. Ive also taken into account that the email 
from 2017 confirmed that Mr Q didnt subscribe to its CIP  which carried an additional 
0.25% annual fee. But Mr Q didnt comment on the fact that he was being charged 0.5% or 
that he didnt believe hed received any service in respect of the fees. As this was two years 
after the previous platform transfers, I would have expected Mr Q to raise the question of 
fees and services if he didnt believe he was getting value for money. 
AIS has also confirmed that Mr Q received annual statements from his SIPP provider and 
that it couldnt have provided any further commentary on the performance or suitability of the 
funds as Mr Q choose and managed them himself. 
Then, in 2020 and continuing into 2021, Mr Q approached AIS for help in drawing his 
benefits to which AIS said, If you are confident you have sufficient funds elsewhere to cover 
any shortfalls and wish your other investments to remain confidential, then we can process 
your request on a non-advised basis. However, if you want us to help you plan a strategy 
then we will need to ask a few questions about your finances. Needless to say, all 
information given is strictly confidential, and we never use said information to market 
products (we also dont charge for reviews).
So I think it was clear that, whenever it was required, AIS was happy to help Mr Q and 
provide advice where necessary. But I dont think it said it would provide any regular 
ongoing servicing of Mr Qs plan in respect of the 0.5% fee it continued to charge.
AIS has said that the charge continued simply as a way of maintaining a previous advice 
fee it had been receiving from the transfer in 2001. It said it explained this to Mr Q and 
sought his agreement to continue with the fee  even explaining that he could have stopped 
the charge at any time. AIS says this exposed it to the possibility of giving free advice if 
clients didnt agree to the ongoing fee  as by that time it didnt operate a charging model 
which deducted initial fees. Thats a matter for AIS and Im not going to comment on its 
charging structure and model, but it does provide good reason for why AIS would have 
discussed continuing an ongoing fee with Mr Q.
In any case I think AIS made Mr Q aware of its ongoing charge throughout the time it acted 
for him and I think it discussed the case for continuing this fee in 2015  which Mr Q 
accepted. But theres no evidence to suggest it made any guarantees about ongoing 
services it would provide in relation to the fee and Mr Q was free to discontinue the charge 
anytime he wished as stated in the client agreement.
 
Mr Q wants AIS to justify its fees with regards to the services it provided, but I dont think it 
set out any specific services it would provide  so I cant support his claim that AIS cannot 
justify the 0.5% ongoing service fee. I know Mr Q doesnt think this is fair and I can understand why he would think that, but that doesnt mean that AIS has done anything 
wrong in this case.
AIS goodwill offer
AIS said that, even though Mr Q wanted to terminate their relationship, it would offer him a 
payment of £1,000 as a goodwill gesture. I understand Mr Q didnt accept the offer 
previously but having checked with AIS I understand its still available to him. So I shall leave 
it to Mr Q to contact AIS if he still wishes to accept the offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman