DRN-3558472
The complaint
E complains Markel International Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined its claim 
under its commercial legal expenses insurance policy and delayed in handling the claim. 
What happened
E had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Markel International Insurance Company Limited 
(Markel). At the end of July 2021, E made a claim for the costs of pursuing a claim against 
another company for an alleged breach of contract under a Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) reached in March 2020.
Markel declined the claim on grounds there was no cover under the contract disputes 
section of the policy and the legal claim against the third party didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success in any event.
E didnt agree the claim wasnt covered. And it was unhappy with the length of time Markel 
took in coming to a decision about policy cover. Markel didnt uphold Es complaint, so E 
brought it to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator agreed there was no cover under 
the policy. And she didnt think Markel had delayed in handling the claim. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Since E didnt agree, its complaints been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have set out their arguments in detail. I dont set them all out here since the 
events and arguments are well known to the parties. No discourtesy is intended by that. It 
simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ive carefully considered 
everything the parties have said in coming to my decision.
The starting point for considering whether Markel treated E fairly is the terms and conditions 
of the policy. I cant ask Markel to act outside the policy; but I can consider whether they 
fairly declined Es claim.
Under the terms of the policy Markel provided cover for, amongst other things, reasonable 
legal costs, up to the policy limit, in relation to claims about insured events notified during the 
policy period and happening within the territorial limits of the policy - subject to the terms and 
conditions and exclusions. 
The parties agreed Es claim should be considered under the Contract Disputes section of 
the policy. I agree thats the relevant section.
The Contract Disputes section provided cover for reasonable legal costs incurred in a 
dispute with a contracting party over: 
Contracts for goods and services defined as A contract for the sale, hire or supply 
of goods and services; and
Contracts for construction and repairs as defined in the policy and subject to certain 
exclusions.
E said the MOU was set up for two reasons: 
1. to set up a joint venture between E and the third party under which the third party 
would carry out the installation of products provided by E; and
2. to enable the third party to sell Es products to their clients in return for E paying 
commission.
E said the third party made one sale and E paid commission for that. It argued the third party 
was providing it with services under the MOU.
Markel obtained legal advice regarding cover. Based on that Markel said the policy didnt 
respond. They said the MOU wasnt a contract since it wasnt binding on the parties  so the 
third party wasnt a contracting party as defined in the policy. Even if the MOU was a 
contract, it wasnt a contract for the sale, hire or supply of goods and services or a contract 
for construction. And, in any event, the prospects of successfully pursuing a claim were less 
than 50%.
Im not persuaded the MOU was a contract under which either party was selling or supplying 
goods or providing services to the other. The plan was for them to work together to supply 
and install products to customers in return for which E would pay the third party a 
commission. It seems any sale or service would have been provided by E and the third party 
to their customers, rather than each other. Theres no suggestion their arrangement involved 
construction or repair either. So, I dont think the MOU was a contract in relation to which 
there was cover under the Markel policy.
Even if Im wrong about that I think a policy exclusion applied. E said any claim against the 
third party would be based on a breach of contract. And the alleged breach would be that the 
third party had made remarks maliciously that discredited E and caused E to lose business. 
The policy excluded the costs of any dispute or legal proceedings concerning, arising out of 
or in connection with defamation or malicious falsehood. I think the exclusion was clearly 
set out and broad enough to include claims, not only where defamation or malicious 
falsehood were alleged in their own right, but also as the basis of a breach of contract claim. 
So, I think the exclusion would apply. 
In any event, it was a condition of the policy that, for cover to be provided, a claim should 
have at least 51% prospects of success in pursuing the case and securing a legal and/or 
financial remedy. Thats a common requirement in LEI policies which we dont consider to be 
unfair. We wouldnt expect an individual to pursue a claim which they were more likely than 
not to lose; and we dont expect an insurer to either, given the risks of having to pay the 
other sides costs as well as those of the insured if the case is lost. 
In line with the policy terms, Markel took advice on the prospects of success from solicitors 
appointed to consider the claim on Es behalf. Its reasonable for Markel to rely on advice 
from legal representatives provided they are suitably qualified. Im satisfied they were here. 
The advice the solicitors gave doesnt appear to be obviously wrong or factually incorrect. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Markel to rely on it. Since the solicitors advised the 
prospects of successfully pursuing a claim against the third party were below 51%, the 
condition of cover that the claim against the third party should have reasonable prospects of success wasnt met.  
Bearing all of the above in mind, I dont think Markel unfairly declined to cover Es claim 
under the policy.
Ive considered the timeline of events. I can see Markel acknowledged the claim promptly 
and set out the process it would follow. They identified the contracts section of the policy as 
being the relevant one under which theyd consider the claim. They reasonably requested 
additional information to enable them to consider the claim. And they pointed out early on 
two exclusions they thought might apply, including defamation or malicious falsehood. I think 
they fairly managed Es expectations about what would happen and the possibility the claim 
might not be covered.
I understand E was concerned about its reputation and keen for Markel to come to a 
decision on cover quickly. I can see Markel was in regular contact with Es broker to request 
information and provide updates. It took a while for the solicitors to provide their advice. But 
Markel cant be held responsible for their delays. They were pressing the solicitors for the 
advice. In any event, I dont think the time taken was unreasonable overall.
I note Markel let E know theyd consider the claim again if E provided more evidence or a 
favourable opinion from a barrister, which is in line with the policy terms and, I think, fair. So 
E can pursue that option if it wishes to do so. 
My final decision
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Es director will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman