DRN-2373515
The complaint
Mr S has complained on behalf of his mother, Mrs S, about the way Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc (RSA) handled a claim for water damage under Mrs Ss home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs S made a claim for a water leak in a downstairs bathroom. RSA accepted the claim and 
arranged for the property to be repaired. Once the damaged area had been stripped out, 
there were no downstairs toilet facilities.
RSA arranged for Mrs S and her family to stay in a hotel since she and Mr S found using the 
stairs difficult. RSA paid £38,842 for alternative accommodation under that claim. The limit 
for alternative accommodation under her policy was £40,000.
Before Mrs S and her family could move home, there was a second water leak. RSA paid for 
Mrs S and her family to continue to stay in a hotel under the second claim.
RSA says it highlighted to Mr S on many occasions that the sum available to his mother 
under her policy for accommodation costs was quickly being used by the family staying in 
hotels costing £10,000 a month. Two months into the second claim it told Mr S she was 
halfway through her accommodation allowance. It says it urged him to consider some rental 
properties. One month later Mrs S and her family moved into a rental property. By the time 
the tenancy had come to an end in February 2019, RSA had spent £43,405 on 
accommodation costs for the second claim.
Mr S complained to RSA that Mrs S and her family then had to move back home because 
funds for alternative accommodation had run out. He thought the way RSA had handled the 
claim resulted in them having to move back home before the repairs were finished. He said 
the property wasnt fit to be lived in. There were no cooking facilities or proper heating. Mrs S 
and Mr S who are both disabled had to sleep on mattresses on the floor.
RSA didnt agree it should have paid any more on accommodation costs. It accepted there 
had been some delays in stripping the property out. But it thought Mr S should have been 
more flexible about the rental accommodation. It said its contractor hadnt been able to 
complete the repairs before the family was due to move back home because of delays on 
their part in choosing materials and then their chosen materials not being available.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mr S has said that the claim has taken much longer to settle than it should have done 
and this has led to the limit of Mrs Ss alternative accommodation being reached sooner 
than it otherwise would have been. So Ill look at how RSA handled Mrs Ss second 
claim.
The second water leak happened on 18 September 2018. The affected fixtures and 
damaged plaster needed to be stripped out so that the property could be dried. The strip out 
works werent completed until 14 December 2018. In my opinion this took far too long. Its 
hard to be precise but this should have been done about a month after the leak was reported 
to RSA. I note that Mrs Ss son caused a delay of five days by querying aspects of the 
strip-out works and the contractor wasnt able to restart immediately. But even so, I calculate 
that RSA caused a delay of about 8 weeks with this part of the claim.
The property was certified as dry on 14 December 2018. RSA instructed a contractor to 
carry out repairs on 14 January 2019. Repairs were booked to start on 11 February. Even 
allowing for the Christmas period I think the repairs should have started about three weeks 
sooner.
I appreciate that some delays were down to Mr S. But even taking that into account, by my 
calculations RSA delayed Mrs Ss claim by about 11 weeks. If it hadnt been for that, the 
accommodation allowance wouldnt have run out before the repairs were completed around 
the end of March. That in turn would have avoided the need for Mrs S and her family to live 
in an unheated property in winter without a proper kitchen for up to a month. In awarding 
compensation for trouble and upset I can only look at the impact RSAs poor service had on 
Mrs S as the policyholder. She is an elderly lady with poor mobility. She found it difficult to 
sleep on a mattress on the floor for some of this period. She would also have been likely to 
have worried about the effect on her family of living in the same conditions. I think RSA 
should pay her £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused by this.
Where a claim has taken longer than anticipated due to delays on the part of the insurer, I 
usually think its appropriate that an insurer should continue to pay for accommodation costs 
even if the limit under the policy has been reached. As Mrs S moved home I cant 
reasonably require RSA to pay her for the cost she would have had if shed continued living 
elsewhere. But I note that RSA initially agreed to pay £40 a day to Mrs S in respect of a 
disturbance allowance for the period that she and her family were living in their unrepaired 
home and stopped paying this when it realised the accommodation limit had been reached. 
This was intended to compensate them for the actual extra costs they might incur such as 
additional food or laundry expenses when they didnt have the use of a kitchen. In order to 
treat Mrs S fairly- and because, in my view as explained, they were living in their unrepaired 
home because of RSAs delays  I think RSA should continue to pay the disturbance 
allowance from the date it stopped paying it until Mrs Ss kitchen was useable again.
RSA has pointed out that it went to great lengths to help Mrs S and her family with problems 
that arose while they were in rental accommodation and to get the repairs carried out as 
soon as possible. I accept thats the case. Its also said that Mr S wasnt sufficiently flexible 
about the rental accommodation offered by its supplier. However, I dont think it would be fair 
to say that these points outweigh the trouble and upset it caused Mrs S by the delays on its 
part or that they mean it isnt liable to continue paying the disturbance allowance.
RSA had no further comment on my provisional decision. In summary Mr S said:
He thought I should award more compensation because of the way the whole family had 
suffered.
The works still havent been finished due to problems with RSAs contractor.
They were told RSA would pay for them to use a launderette until their washing machine 
was back in use.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When awarding compensation for poor claim handling I can only look at the trouble and 
upset a business has caused to its customer, in this case, Mrs S. But Ive taken into account 
that she would have been worried about the effect of RSAs claim handling on her family as 
well.
Im sorry to hear that the works still havent finished. This isnt something RSA has had a 
chance to comment on, so I cant make any findings regarding this. If Mrs S remains 
unhappy, Mr S may wish to make a further complaint on her behalf to RSA regarding this.
A disturbance allowance is intended to cover the actual extra costs a consumer incurs in 
certain situations, including, as in this case, not having a fully useable kitchen. Typical 
reasonable expenses include additional laundry costs. So RSA should take into account the 
loss of use of the washing machine in calculating the disturbance allowance. For the 
avoidance of doubt if the rest of the kitchen is fully functional, Id say it would be fair for RSA 
to base this on the reasonable estimated costs of the family using a launderette rather than 
the £40 its liable to pay for the period when the kitchen couldnt be used for cooking either.
Overall, having taken into account Mr Ss response, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings and they now form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
In addition to compensation of £1,000 RSA should pay Mrs S a disturbance allowance of 
£40 a day from the date it stopped paying it until Mrs Ss kitchen has/had full cooking 
facilities again and if after that period the washing machine isnt/wasnt able to be used, a 
further sum to cover the familys reasonable laundry costs. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mrs S 
compensation of £1,000 for the trouble and upset it caused her and a disturbance allowance 
as set out above under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman