DRN-3626732
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in January 2019. The purchase was funded by a ten-
year loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mr S says the installer misled him into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator thought that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr S and upheld the complaint. Ikano did not agree, and so the case was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am not minded to uphold this complaint. 
That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the 
cost.
Immediately above the signature box, where Mr S has signed the contract, it gives the total 
cash price of the system, £8,995. It goes on to say that a £100 deposit was paid and gives 
the total balance as £8,895. At the top of the same page, under the heading Estimated 
Year 1 Solar Returns, it gives a breakdown of how the benefits from the system were 
calculated, ending with a total benefit in the first year. That is shown as a range between two 
figures, of which the highest possible benefit is £387.85. I think that figure is clear and 
conspicuous; it is not buried in small print. The whole contract is only two pages long.
As Ive said, Mr S paid for this with a ten year loan. Ten times £387.85 is £3,878.50, which is 
less than half of the cash price of the system. So I think that this document made it clear that 
the system was not going to make enough money to pay for the monthly loan payments, or 
to cover the cash price of the system within the loan term. Mr S signed it, so I am satisfied 
that the salesman did enough to bring this to his attention. I consider it very unlikely that on 
the same occasion the salesman would have told Mr S the opposite of what the contract 
says, and so I conclude that he did not misrepresent the financial benefits of the system.
The contract does not give the total amount repayable under the loan, nor does it say how 
much the monthly loan payments would be. It was for this reason that our adjudicator 
thought that the contract failed to adequately show the cost compared with the benefits. 
However, I do not think that makes a difference, because even if the interest is left out, the 
contract still clearly shows that the system would not make enough money to pay the 
principal sum borrowed, let alone the interest. Secondly, although the loan repayments do 
not appear in the contract, comparing the first year benefit with the cost on the same page is 
enough to see that the system would not be self-funding.
The loan repayments and the total amount repayable both appear in the loan agreement. 
But it was not necessary to compare the loan agreement with the contract to find out 
whether the system would be self-funding or not. Enough information appears in the contract 
alone to see that.
So I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr S about the benefits and cost of the 
panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of the loan.
Responses to my provisional findings
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. So there is no reason for me to depart 
from my findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman