DRN-2770982
The complaint
Ms I has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt paid reimbursed her for 
the cost of calling out a plumber when she had a water leak.
What happened
Ms I has complained about her HomeServe Plumbing and Drainage Plus policy  which is 
underwritten by Aviva. The policy covers the likes of water leaks, blocked pipes, and issues 
with domestic water supplies. As the complaint relates to a declined claim, Aviva is 
responsible for this  so Ill refer to Aviva throughout my decision, even though Ms I wouldve 
been in contact with HomeServe about the claim.
In January 2020 Ms I noticed a leak in the upstairs of her home. She contacted Aviva to 
arrange an engineer visit and this was booked for two days later. 
In the meantime, as she wasnt happy to wait for two days, Ms I arranged for a plumber to 
visit her property to fix the leak. Ms I has explained that the plumber replaced a metal pipe 
that had corroded and charged £200, which Ms I paid in cash. Ms I has also explained that 
she found the plumber in a local directory and she doesnt recall which plumber she used.
Ms I has complained that Aviva isnt willing to reimburse her for the work that was carried 
out. Aviva says this is because an engineer had already been booked to visit Ms Is property 
to fix the problem, but Miss I chose to book a plumber independently. Aviva also notes that 
Ms I hasnt been able to provide an invoice showing the works carried out or a receipt for the 
payment that she made to the plumber. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. She 
noted that Ms I hadnt reported an emergency leak to Aviva, so she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for the engineers visit to be booked for two days time. With this in mind she 
didnt think Ms I needed to call out a plumber in the meantime, so she didnt think Aviva 
needed to do anything to put things right. 
Ms I didnt agree with the investigators opinion. So the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Ms I but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Ms I initially called Aviva to report the leak on 29 January 2020. The 
representative she spoke to asked several questions, including the nature of the leak, and 
Ms I explained that the leak was a drip. The representative explained that this would be 
treated as a non-emergency callout, but that if the leak appeared to worsen, Ms I should call 
back for more urgent assistance. 
The representative also requested that Ms I paid the excess in order to make the booking for 
an engineer to visit. Although Ms I wasnt able to pay the excess at the time of the call, as 
she wasnt in possession of her bank card, the engineer slot was reserved for two days 
time, on 31 January 2020. 
Although I think its fair to assume that dripping water wouldnt usually be considered as an 
emergency, Ive firstly considered whether Aviva fairly classified this problem as a non-
emergency according to what the policy says. I can see that the policy describes an 
emergency as creating a risk of loss of  or damage to  your property.
I can certainly see why to Ms I this problem required urgent attention  after all, its 
distressing for water of any nature to be leaking inside your property when it shouldnt be. 
And Im also mindful that any escape of water could indeed cause damage to a property. But 
in this situation, as Ms I explained that the water was just dripping, so was right for Aviva to 
record that this wasnt an emergency as it wasnt apparent that the dripping water couldnt 
be contained or that the property would be imminently damaged. Its also important to note 
that Aviva did give Ms I the option to re-contact it if the problem worsened  so that option 
was still available to her when she called an independent plumber out. With this in mind, I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to offer Ms I an appointment two days after she initially 
reported the leak. 
Ill now turn to the point that Aviva has so far declined to reimburse Ms I for the plumber that 
she called out to fix the leak. Ms I says that Aviva should cover this cost as thats the 
purpose of having the policy in place. 
I should start by explaining that I genuinely understand why Ms I believes Aviva should 
reimburse her for the cost of the plumber callout. After all, shes out of pocket as a result of a 
situation in her home that would ordinarily be covered by the insurance policy she has in 
place. But to be fair to both Ms I and to Aviva, I also have to consider what the terms of the 
insurance policy say  thats to say, I need to ensure that both parties have complied with 
whats required of them to validate the claim. 
Its fairly common for insurers to arrange for repairs themselves as part of a claim. So I can 
see why Aviva did this in the first instance. So whilst I know Ms I wasnt happy with the 
amount of time shed have to wait, I need to consider whether Ms I was free to choose her 
own engineer to fix the issue, rather than the one arranged by Aviva. And if she was, I need 
to think about any requirements that Ms I needed to follow and what information was 
required by Aviva in order for the cost of the plumber to be reimbursed under the policy.
Ive checked the terms and conditions for Ms Is policy and they start with a section titled 
How do I make a claim? This section includes the following explanation:
Claims must be made by you or a person calling on your behalf. Please call us as soon as 
you are aware of the incident. We will not be able to cover the costs of any work carried out 
by persons not authorised by us in advance.
So although it initially appeared that Ms I not being able to provide an invoice or payment 
receipt was the barrier to Aviva refunding her, in any case, I dont think Aviva would need to 
do this. As the work wasnt pre-authorised in advance by Aviva, Ms I didnt meet the 
conditions of the policy and so it wasnt unfair for Aviva to decline this.For completeness, Ive also looked through the rest of the terms and conditions document. I 
cant see that the policy provides the choice of the customer being able to pick their own 
engineer and claim a reimbursement from Aviva, instead of Aviva arranging the work for the 
customer. Whist I accept that on some occasions this may happen, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to require Aviva to reimburse Ms I in this instance, as Aviva hasnt committed to 
doing that under the conditions of the policy. So theres no reason Ms I shouldve had an 
expectation of cover that she ultimately didnt receive. 
Id like to reassure Ms I that Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. And I know 
that this will likely come as a disappointment to her. But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, so I dont require Aviva to put anything right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Ms Is complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman