DRN-3699441
The complaint
Mrs N complained about Premier Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her claim under 
her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ns car was damaged in an incident which wasnt her fault. Premier decided that it was 
uneconomical to repair and offered her £6,180, which they said was its market value.
She thought that her car was worth more and felt that Premier had delayed unnecessarily in 
paying her and still hadnt resolved her claim. 
The investigator recommended that we partly uphold Mrs Ns complaint. He thought that 
Premiers valuation of her car was fair, but that Premier had avoidably delayed in settling her 
claim and this had caused her inconvenience. He thought that they should compensate her 
£250 and pay interest on the settlement offer amount. Premier agreed to this, but Mrs N 
didnt, and so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont have the power to punish or fine businesses as we 
don't monitor or regulate them, and our role is to look at individual complaints. Mrs N has 
made a number of detailed points, and I've considered everything shes said, but I will focus 
on what I see as being the key points following the investigators assessment of her 
complaint. 
The investigator explained to Mrs N our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
Premier have to pay Mrs Ns cars market value. However we dont decide what the market 
value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable 
amount having regard to the valuations in the trade guides, as well as any other evidence 
the parties may provide. That evidence might include advertisements detailing the sale 
prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised 
price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices.
So although Mrs N showed them one advert for £7,250 what she said was the only similar 
car available at the time, Premier arent bound by that and theyre not obliged to show her a 
similar car for sale that could be purchased for less than that. 
.
Premier showed us how theyd reached the valuation of £6,180. It was based on the value 
from a trade guide but adjusting for her cars lower than average mileage up to the date of 
loss, and taking into account extras she thought should increase its value.
 
The investigator also did his own check of three recognised industry trade guides. He found 
that Premiers offer of £6,180 was within the range of those three guides, and so, in was in 
accordance with our guidelines. Having looked at that too, I agree that Premier acted in 
accordance with our guidelines and their settlement offer was fair. So I dont require them to 
increase it. 
Even though Mrs N didnt agree with Premiers settlement offer, shed been willing since 
about May to accept that amount as an interim payment until Premier had finalised the claim. 
She gave them her bank account details for payment in May. But Premier didnt pay her the 
settlement until December, about nine months after the incident giving rise to the claim. And 
that was only after she had complained to this service and the investigator had contacted 
Premier. 
 
I think that Premier delayed unreasonably in paying the cars market value to Mrs N, and in 
finalising her claim, and have failed to show why they did that. So shes been unnecessarily 
without the settlement monies from 22 May 2021 until 1 December 2021. 
I think that an award of interest compensates for the payment delay. I can also see that 
shes had some inconvenience as regards payment of a car hire bill, but Premier did resolve 
that with her by reimbursing her.  
We think that there will always be some inconvenience for someone in making an insurance 
claim, but I think that in this case Mrs N has had to follow things up with Premier more than 
we would normally expect of a consumer, and I can see that has been frustrating for her. 
But although she would like more compensation for this, I do think that £250 adequately 
reflects the inconvenience that she has experienced due to Premiers actions, and so I dont 
require them to pay more than that. 
 
Putting things right
I think that Premier should pay Mrs N the compensation and interest as Ive explained 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and I require Premier Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs N £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
caused her, and 
Pay Mrs N interest on the settlement amount of £6,180 from 22 May to 1 December 
2021 inclusive, at the rate of 8% per year simple. *
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
*If Premier consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs N how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman