DRN-4080630
The complaint
Mr R complains about how esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse the full costs he incurred. 
What happened
Mr Rs car collided with a neighbours fence. esure repaired his car and it sent a surveyor to 
inspect the damage to the fence. He estimated the repairs cost at £342.10. Mr R obtained 
two quotes for carrying out the repairs. And he had the work done for £1,140 before esure 
had authorised a quote. Mr R said esure had caused delays and the damage was a danger. 
But esure said it would only reimburse Mr Rs neighbour for the surveyors estimate. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr R 
had provided the quote after the work had been done. And she thought esure could have 
had the work done for significantly less. She thought esure was only responsible for the 
costs it had authorised.
Mr R replied that hed received no payment from esure, but his neighbour had received the 
settlement cheque. He thought esure should pay market rates for the fence repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure said it was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to deal with any legal liability for 
damage Mr R may have incurred. I can see that the policy booklet in Section 1 explains that 
esure will cover Mr R for legal liability where his car caused damage to anothers property. 
And in the General Conditions section esure explains that it is entitled to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. So Mr R has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. 
I can see that esure assessed the damage to the fence caused by Mr Rs car. This was 
based on its loss adjusters estimate of materials and labour. It then paid the repair cost 
directly to Mr Rs neighbour before Mr R paid for the repairs to be done. Im satisfied that the 
assessors report was for Mr Rs neighbours benefit. And so Mr R isnt entitled to this 
information under the relevant laws. 
Mr R incurred costs for the fence repairs. But esure hadnt approved these. Mr R said his 
neighbour had told him that esure was waiting for him to obtain two quotes for the repairs. 
But I havent seen any confirmation that esure asked Mr R to obtain quotes. So I cant say 
that esure is liable for Mr Rs costs. 
esure said it couldnt discuss the details with him as this was his neighbours data. It said 
that if the neighbour was unhappy with the settlement it offered, then they should complain 
to esure. I can understand that Mr R feels frustrated by this. But I cant say that esure acted 
incorrectly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman