DRN-3984348
The complaint
Miss R has complained about the way her motor insurance broker, Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited (Brightside), dealt with her policy after it was avoided by her insurer.
What happened
Miss R took out a motor insurance policy through Brightside in August 2020 which renewed 
the following year. 
In October 2021 she made a claim to her insurer and in February 2022 the insurer decided 
to avoid the policy (i.e., it treated it as if it never existed). Brightside then wrote to Miss R and 
said that there was an outstanding balance of £501.09 with regards to her policy which was 
payable within seven days. This was the price of cover, calculated by Brightside, which 
Miss R still owed, even though the insurer had avoided the policy, because of the claim. It 
later agreed for Miss R to pay this in instalments, so she paid an initial £100 in March 2022 
and £80.23 each month thereafter. 
In June 2022 Brightside wrote to Miss R to say that there was still £574.17 outstanding 
which she was required to pay within seven days. Nevertheless, it continued to collect 
monthly payments from her account.
In December 2022 Miss R complained to Brightside and said she had overpaid by about 
£240 and wanted a refund. She spoke to Brightside who said that the claim amount had to 
be readjusted due to there being an open claim on her policy, so the initial outstanding 
balance of £501.09 had increased. It said she had paid £741.74 overall and that there was 
still a £12.68 debt (making the total amount due £754.40) which Brightside offered to waive. 
It offered to return to Miss R the £240.65 she believed she had overpaid on the proviso that 
she would pay it back to Brightside by monthly instalments. Miss R didnt accept this offer.
Brightside considered Miss Rs complaint and upheld it but didnt agree to the £240 refund 
Miss R had requested. It said that it wrote to her once it was made aware of the fact that 
there was an open claim on her policy which it says meant she was not due any of her 
premiums back. But it agreed that its letter of June 2022 was not clear and that it should 
have said that further payments would continue until the full balance was cleared. It again 
offered to remove the £12.68 debt and offered Miss R £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Miss R wasnt happy with Brightsides response and complained to us. Our Investigator who 
reviewed the complaint thought it should be upheld. She said Brightside knew that there was 
an open claim on Miss Rs policy as far back as February 2022 when the insurer decided to 
avoid the policy and that it should have calculated the amount due correctly at that point. Our 
Investigator felt that £240 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Brightside caused Miss R. At the time, our Investigator was under the impression that the 
£12.68 debt had been waived so she asked Brightside to pay Miss R £177.32 or £227.32 
depending on whether it had made the £50 payment to Miss R or not. Miss R later confirmed 
that the £12.68 had not been waived. 
Brightside didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said if Miss R were not to 
pay the additional £240 this would mean that she will have only paid part of her premium.
Before I issued my decision, I asked our Investigator to clarify to Brightside that I didnt think 
any cancellation fee should have been charged as the policy was avoided and not cancelled. 
Brightside said no cancellation fee was included in the £240; a fee was initially charged but 
credited back to Miss Rs account. 
I also said that I didnt think it was fair and reasonable that Brightside changed the amount 
owed part way through the settlement period. I said it was its error that the outstanding 
balance was miscalculated, and I thought it was unfair for it to tell Miss R in June that she 
still owed an amount that was higher than what she was told she originally owed. I said I 
didnt think Miss R would have been expecting to have to pay this additional amount and had 
probably only budgeted for the original sum. Miss R told Brightside she was in financial 
difficulty and I thought Brightsides actions also went against recent guidance from the 
regulator regarding consumers who are in that position. 
Brightside responded but didnt agree to pay Miss R the £240 suggested by the Investigator 
and again asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. I should clarify that this decision is purely in 
relation to Brightsides actions as Miss Rs broker. I wont be considering any of the actions 
of the insurer in this decision.
Brightside was told by the insurer in early February 2022 that the policy was being avoided 
with immediate effect. The insurer told Brightside that there was a claim on the policy which 
meant that the entire premium was due. Brightside responded acknowledging that there was 
an open claim.
Brightside then calculated the premium due and told Miss R that £501.09 was still 
outstanding. Brightside now says that it should have told Miss R that the outstanding 
balance was in fact £754.40. Miss R clearly relied on Brightsides statement that the balance 
was £501.09 and agreed to pay this amount in instalments. Miss R made an initial payment 
for £100 in March 2022 and then received an email saying that there was still £401.09 
outstanding which would be spread over five months into payments of £80.22 per month.
 
Miss R was then sent a letter in June 2022 from Brightside saying that there was an 
outstanding balance of £574.17, due within seven days. I note that Miss R had made several 
payments up to that point and would have expected her balance to have decreased, likely 
almost settled, by June 2022  but instead it seemed to increase. Brightside said it adjusted 
the amount due when it found out there was an open claim but, as pointed out by our 
Investigator, it was aware of this from the beginning  February 2022. So the miscalculation 
was made from the start  there was no new information in June as far as I can see. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Brightside to have sent this 
demand for further payment, and certainly not without any further explanation, especially as 
the letter said the payment was due within seven days which I imagine Miss R would have 
found distressing. 
Brightside accepts that the June letter should have been clearer and that it should have 
explained that there had been a miscalculation. As I said above, I think Miss R would have found the letter quite distressing and confusing particularly as it didnt say when her monthly 
payments would stop, why the amount was higher than the original amount etc. 
Nevertheless, I do note that Miss R didnt get in touch with Brightside about this at the time 
and did not raise a complaint until December. In any event in these circumstances, I think it 
was unfair for Brightside to collect the additional £240.65 from Miss R. 
Furthermore, I think Brightside had a further opportunity to put things right but it didnt. And 
that was when it spoke to Miss R in December and she made it aware of the fact that she 
was in financial difficulty. I think at that point it would have been fair and reasonable for it to 
have waived any amount Miss R had paid which was over the original £501.09 she was told 
she owed.
In saying the above, I have taken into consideration recent guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) which states that businesses should provide consumers who are in 
financial difficulty with appropriate support. I note that the policy wasnt cancelled due to 
Miss R being in financial difficulty, which is the situation in which the guidance refers. But I 
think Brightside could have done more ensure that it was acting within the spirit of the FCAs 
guidance particularly as the additional £240.65 Miss R was charged was relatively significant 
in proportion to the original balance  it was around half of what she was told she originally 
owed. 
When Miss R complained to Brightside, she said she wanted a refund of £240. In the 
circumstances I think this is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Brightside 
caused her, for the reasons I referred to above.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited must pay Miss R £240 for the distress and inconvenience it caused her. If it 
has already paid her the £50 compensation it had offered in its final response letter, then it 
must only pay Miss R £190 so that the overall compensation paid is £240.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman