DRN-3204027
The complaint
Mr K complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds partial settlement of his late wifes private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K has private health insurance and his wife (Mrs K) was also insured on the policy. At the 
time of the treatment in dispute the policy was insured by another underwriter, which has 
since transferred to BUPA. BUPA has told us it has taken responsibility for the claim 
settlement and my references to BUPA include the previous insurer.
In autumn 2020 Mrs K was diagnosed with cancer and she had surgery, covered by the 
policy. Her chemotherapy had to be delayed due to Covid-19 and she was due to start her 
chemotherapy cycle on 19 November 2020.
On 18 November 2020 Mrs K contacted her GP about her worsening abdominal pain, 
constipation and vomiting. The GP thought Mrs K may have an obstruction due to the cancer 
and referred Mrs K to see her private oncologist immediately to check if she was able to start 
the chemotherapy the next day. 
Tests at the private clinic found Mrs K didnt have a bowel obstruction. But the cancer had 
progressed and the oncologist recommended Mrs K remain at the clinic overnight to start the 
chemotherapy the next day.
Mr K claimed for the costs. Ultimately BUPA paid the treatment costs for 19 and 
20 November 2020. But it wouldnt cover any costs incurred on 18 November relating to the 
tests for Mrs Ks abdominal pain which it said was emergency treatment, which the policy 
didnt cover.
Im very sorry to see that Mrs K passed away. 
Mr K complained to us. In summary he said:
Mrs Ks GP said it would be detrimental for Mrs K to go to A&E (in a public hospital) 
as the A&E doctors wouldnt have been aware of her recent medical history.
Mrs K would needed the scan she had on the 18 November anyway.
He believed the reason the policy excluded emergency treatment was because 
BUPA wanted to exclude emergency issues where it didnt have the chance to 
assess if the condition was covered under the policy. But Mrs Ks admission to the 
clinic on 18 November related to her cancer which BUPA had already agreed to 
cover. So he said it was unfair for BUPA to apply the emergency treatment exclusion 
for unforeseen complications of cancer. 
Our investigator said BUPAs settlement of the claim was fair.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines which say an insurer should 
handle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
You are not covered for Emergency Treatment (See Emergency Treatment 
definition on page 40).
The policy defines emergency treatment as:
An admission to:
 a hospital directly following an accident, or
 a hospital ward directly from the emergency department for urgent or unplanned 
treatment, or
 a hospital ward on the same day as a referral for treatment is made either by a GP 
or specialist, when immediate treatment or diagnostic tests are necessary, or
 a hospital to receive immediate lifesaving surgery.
The medical evidence is that Mrs K was admitted to the clinic the same day she was referred 
by her GP and had immediate diagnostic tests for her symptoms. So BUPA could say the 
treatment on the 18 November relating to Mrs Ks abdominal pain was emergency treatment, 
not covered by the policy terms.
I also have to decide whether BUPA fairly and reasonably applied the emergency treatment 
exclusion in the particular circumstances of this case.
Its important to say that Im not making my decision based on what Mr and Mrs K, or her  
GP, believed were in her best medical interests at the time. So even if the GP told Mr and 
Mrs K that it would be better for Mrs K to see her oncologist privately, rather than go to A&E,  
about her abdominal pain that doesnt mean BUPA had to pay for tests that fall within the 
policy definition of emergency treatment. And I cant reasonably base my decision on 
whether BUPA may or may not have covered the scan if it had been done on the 
19 November as thats not what happened.
Mr K says that Mrs Ks pain was found to be a complication of the cancer, a condition that 
was covered by the policy. The oncologists report of 19 November 2020 and undated letter 
says that the emergency tests found Mrs Ks pain was in part due to the cancers 
progression. Ive considered very carefully whether that should mean BUPA has to cover the 
costs of the tests for the abdominal pain, or at least part of the costs as the cancer was 
found to be part of the cause. But I dont think I can reasonably do so as thats with the 
benefit of hindsight. I think the reason for the exclusion is to essentially route consumers 
who need to have emergency treatment to A&E where they would get free care and the 
insurer wouldnt have to pay. At the time of Mrs Ks admission, before the test results, her 
abdominal symptoms were treated as an emergency with an emergency admission which 
the policy clearly doesnt cover.
Overall I think BUPA reasonably declined to pay the costs relating to the tests on 
18 November for Mrs Ks abdominal pain which it fairly said was emergency treatment, not 
covered by the policy terms.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman