DRN-2870560
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE handled and settled a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy for damage following a storm. 
What happened
Mr R held a household insurance policy with Great Lakes, which he took out via a broker on 
a non-advised basis in early November 2017.
On 22 February 2018, Mr R contacted Great Lakes to report damage to his driveway. He 
said hed noticed there was damage in December 2017; but hed gone away for around a 
month and, after returning, had observed a worsening in its condition. He said the stones 
from his retaining wall had fallen away.
Mr R also said, prior to the damage occurring, more than a months worth of rain fell within a 
single day in his locality. And he said he was concerned about the condition his property had 
been left in because thered been a landslide very close to his home. So, he made a claim 
under his insurance policy in efforts to remedy what had happened. 
On 23 February 2018, Great Lakes informed Mr R that, in order to progress his claim, it 
would require a cause of damage report. So, Mr R instructed an engineer to inspect the 
damage, which happened on 24 April 2018. The engineer produced a report, which was 
shared with Great Lakes on 4 May 2018. This report stated that the structural condition of 
the wall was poor and rainwater run-off was likely to have contributed to its deterioration. 
On receipt of the engineer report, Great Lakes said it attempted to contact Mr R to discuss 
the content. But its efforts were unsuccessful. So, it wrote to him explaining that it was 
declining his claim based on wear and tear.
Nothing further happened in relation to this claim until early February 2019, when Great 
Lakes received an email from Mr R that explained he was disputing its repudiation decision. 
He said he believed that excessive rainfall had caused the damage hed reported. 
As Mr R was disputing Great Lakes decision, it instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as C 
in this decision, to inspect the damage to his property. In late April 2019, C attended Mr Rs 
property  this was the earliest that the visit could take place. 
Following on from Cs site visit, it wrote to Mr R, informing him that it accepted that there had 
been heavy rain at around the date of loss. But it thought the stone retaining wall should be 
able to withstand that weather. It said it had observed evidence of previous repairs over the 
years and thought the damage had occurred due to gradually occurring wear and tear.
Great Lakes took Cs opinion into account and considered the evidence it had received from 
Mr R. Having done so, it felt, overall, that the damage Mr R had reported had been caused 
by age related wear and tear. And it said this was excluded under the terms of his policy. So, 
it repudiated his claim on this basis.  
Mr R complained to Great Lakes about its decision to decline his claim. But it didnt uphold 
his complaint about the way it had settled his claim. So, Mr R referred his complaint to our 
service. 
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. They were persuaded that the damage had occurred as a result 
of age-related wear and tear. And they didnt think Great Lakes had made an error in how it 
had assessed Mr Rs claim. But he disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I want to assure both Mr R and Great 
Lakes that Ive read carefully considered all the information theyve sent us. I hope theyll 
understand if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to 
concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint  namely whether Great Lakes acted 
reasonably in declining this claim. 
Its clear that Mr R feels very strongly that his claim should be settled. Hes described the 
difficulties hes experienced in detail, which Im sorry to hear about. And I can see that he 
told our investigator about other damage that he observed within his locality. Its clear he 
feels this was all caused by excessive rainfall. But this complaint is about how Mr Rs claim 
was dealt with by Great Lakes. So, I cant comment on any damage that may have been 
caused outside the boundaries of Mr Rs property and how that may have been resolved.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mr Rs driveway and retaining wall. However, 
theres a disagreement between Mr R, Great Lakes and its appointed agent about the cause 
of the damage and the correct outcome of this claim.
Mr Rs policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. In order for a claim to be 
successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming for was 
caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
Here, Great Lakes considered whether or not a storm had caused the damage Mr R 
reported. I think that this was reasonable because Mr R was complaining about damage 
which, he said, had followed a period of heavy rain.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mr Rs complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in mind. I 
should also clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to 
be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mr Rs insurance policy doesnt contain any 
definition of what Great Lakes considers to be a storm. Where the term storm isnt defined, this service takes the view that a storm generally involves violent winds, usually 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mr Rs locality for storm conditions in the 
months prior to the date he initially contacted Great Lakes to notify it of his claim. Having 
done so, Ive seen evidence of heavy rainfall, which satisfies me there was a storm recent to 
the date of the damage Mr R is claiming for. It follows that Im persuaded that I can answer 
question one affirmatively.
Turning now to question 2, Ive carefully thought about whether the damage caused to Mr 
Rs property is consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. And 
Im satisfied, overall, this type of damage is something that our service has, on occasion, 
seen following a storm. But, as our investigator explained, it would usually take extremely 
strong winds and rainfall to damage a wall that was in good condition without any pre-
existing defects. Overall though, Im satisfied that I can answer question two affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address. Cs opinion is that storm conditions werent 
the main cause of the damage. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint C felt the 
damage had been predominantly caused by wear and tear. Specifically, it told Great Lakes:
The wall had been failing over the past years with part of the damage caused by the busy 
road next to the wall and also ground movement and the various plants that were growing 
through the wall until recently.
I understand that Mr R disagrees with Cs opinion and is unhappy that Great Lakes has 
relied on its report to decline his claim. But Im satisfied C is a recognised organisation that 
regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to use Cs expertise in assessing a claim for damage. 
The photographs C took during its visit to Mr Rs property support its opinion on the cause of 
damage  I can see evidence of historic repairs, which indicate thered been previous issues 
with the wall. This demonstrates that Mr R ought to have been aware of the defects to his 
wall. The wall is bulging in the middle and its condition appears poor in the images Ive seen. 
Cs concerns about the condition of Mr Rs wall are also corroborated by the engineer that 
Mr R instructed to inspect his wall who stated that the wall is in poor structural condition and 
rainwater run off is quite likely to have contributed to this deterioration. 
This damage C and the engineer identified in their reports doesnt happen as a result of a 
one-off event. I say this because a stone wall should be weather resistant  although its 
condition will deteriorate over time.
I appreciate that Mr R strongly believes that the damage to his property was caused by a 
storm. But I think Great Lakes has shown our service that it had cogent evidence 
demonstrating that the damage occurred gradually. Im not persuaded that a storm was the 
predominant cause of the damage  as Mr Rs policy requires under the storm peril.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Rs property occurred 
predominantly due to pre-existing wear and tear. I havent seen enough evidence to attribute 
the damage to a one-off storm event as would be required for me to tell Great Lakes to meet 
this claim. Like our investigator, I think the problems Mr R experienced have been 
exacerbated and highlighted by periods of adverse weather.
Under the terms of Mr Rs policy loss or damage caused by wear and tear is specifically 
excluded. This is in common with most home insurance policies because theres a difference between an insurance contract covering specific perils and a maintenance contract where a 
consumer will have jobs covered annually by a builder. 
Insurers are keen for these contracts not to be confused. There are wear and tear 
exemptions in their policies, so consumers dont use them for maintenance purposes. So, I 
cant say Great Lakes acted unfairly in seeking to rely on a wear and tear exclusion clause.
I recognise that Mr R is unhappy with how his claim was progressed by Great Lakes  hes 
referred to delays and unfairness. But Ill explain why Im not persuaded there was any 
unfairness or delay, for which Great Lakes was responsible.
I can see that Great Lakes initially considered Mr Rs claim under the accidental damage 
part of his policy. But It didnt think the claim could be settled under this part of the policy as 
it wasnt persuaded the damage had been caused in this way. I dont think that decision was 
unfair or unreasonable because Mr Rs policy defines accidental damage as unexpected 
and unintended damage caused by sudden and external means. 
Here, the evidence satisfies me that the condition of Mr Rs wall has been deteriorating over 
a period of time. So, the damage cant be said to have been caused suddenly or 
unexpectedly. It follows that I cant fairly conclude that Great Lakes made an error in 
declining to settle Mr Rs claim as accidental damage.
I can see that Mr Rs claim took longer than our service would typically expect to reach an 
outcome. But, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied Mr R received a repudiation 
decision promptly after sharing his engineers report with Great Lakes. And Ive seen 
evidence that shows Great Lakes was chasing Mr R for his cause of damage report, which 
indicates it was trying to proactively progress this claim on his behalf.
Between May 2018, when the repudiation decision was communicated to Mr R, and 
February 2019 when he contacted Great Lakes to dispute its declinature of his claim I cant 
see any evidence of communication. As Great Lakes had already notified Mr R that it wasnt 
prepared to settle his claim I wouldnt expect it to communicate any further with him unless 
hed made contact to request clarification of the decision it had taken.
I can see that, when Mr R contacted Great Lakes in February 2019, it revisited its 
repudiation decision, which involved it instructing a surveyor to undertake an inspection. I 
can see that Cs site visit didnt take place until 29 April 2019. But this was due to issues with 
Mr Rs availability. And I can also see that, from the point that C visited, Great Lakes 
progressed Mr Rs claim without delay.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly conclude that Great Lakes acted 
unfairly or made an error in declining to cover damage that isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Rs insurance policy. Great Lakes has shown our service reliable evidence 
to show why it feels the damage Mr R reported was predominantly caused by wear and tear. 
And this means I cant uphold this complaint. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed with this decision  he feels very strongly about the issues 
raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why he brought his complaint to our 
service. But for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded Great Lakes acted unfairly in how it 
dealt with this claim. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman