DRN-3004754
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC debited £2,500.00 from her account to return 
to a third-party bank and closed her account without notice. 
What happened
Mrs B held an account with Barclays. In July 2019, she received a £2,500 credit into the 
account. On 25 March 2020, Barclays received a scam report about these funds and 
subsequently returned the £2,500 back to the sending bank. On 6 April 2020 Barclays 
closed Mrs Bs account without notice. 
Mrs B said this money was legitimately given to her by her father-in-law as he owed her and 
her husband money. She explained that her and her husband had helped her father-in-law to 
bring his wife and his wifes children over to the UK. Mrs B explained that since October 
2019 her and her husband have not been able to contact her father-in-law. They feel his wife 
has instigated the claim on her father-in-laws behalf.
Mrs B provided some evidence she felt supported her case to show this money was owed to 
her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think Barclays had done enough to verify 
what the third-party bank was telling it and that Barclays should have sought to understand 
Mrs Bs versions of events and the evidence she had to support the situation. The 
investigator felt the evidence supplied by Mrs B was enough to support proof of ownership of 
the funds.
Barclays said regardless of whether it had had a conversation with Mrs B at the time, based 
on the information provided by the third-party bank, the correct decision was made in 
returning the funds. It is a family dispute and needs to be resolved between themselves.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 August 2021. Barclays accepted my provisional 
decision. Mrs B did not accept it and made the following comments:
She is disappointed with the outcome and feels she has provided as much 
information as possible and a detailed explanation with regards to the funds in 
question. 
If this is a family dispute, she is puzzled why the other bank and Barclays have 
behaved in such a manner. 
She has not been provided with any evidence from any parties confirming that her 
conduct was unreasonable. 
She feels she is being punished for supporting and assisting a vulnerable individual. 
On this basis she believes that Barclays conduct is unreasonable and unjustifiable.
Barclays has in the past treated other customers unfairly as shown in an article Ms B 
has provided.
She is perplexed that her father-in law did not notice the missing funds from his 
account immediately, given the size of the sum and why it took seven months to 
report this.
How can some of the transactions be fraudulent from the other parties account into 
hers and not other transactions.
The system in which the banks operate is letting the customer down as they hide 
behind rules and regulations rather than providing any proof or information.
Any action the bank takes should be based on facts, evidence rather than hearsay 
which appears to be the case with her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 4 December 2020 covered 
the detailed timeline of events and the details of Mrs Bs testimony. I have summarised Mrs 
Bs response to my provisional decision above, but I have read all of her submissions. Im 
not responding to every single point made but instead Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues material to the outcome of this complaint.
I dont consider the newspaper article is likely to contain evidence of what happened in Mrs 
Bs case. I cant comment on what has happened in other cases. Although some cases may 
be similar in nature, the evidence and arguments on each case will be different. Ive looked 
at the facts and evidence in this case.
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations. It is also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be 
due to a number of reasons  and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just 
the same as if Mrs B decided to stop banking with Barclays, she wouldnt have to tell them 
why. 
Whilst Barclays are entitled to close a customers account  it must do so in line with the 
Terms and Conditions. Ive reviewed the Terms and Conditions and Im satisfied that 
Barclays acted fairly when closing Mrs Bs account without notice  so I cant say it acted 
unreasonably. Barclays exercised their right to longer offer Mrs B banking facilities and Im 
satisfied with its reasons why. Im sorry I cant share those reasons with Mrs B directly, but 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays has made an unfair decision. So, I wont be asking it to 
do anything differently.
Mrs B is also unhappy Barclays returned funds which she says her father-in-law owed her. 
As Mrs B is aware, Barclays acted on the instructions of a third-party bank and the fraud 
report the third-party bank provided. As I have said above, Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. I am 
satisfied this was the case here.
I appreciate Mrs B has submitted a substantial volume of evidence to this service which she 
feels demonstrates her father-in-law owed her money. I dont agree the picture is complete 
though. For example, I note the partial bank statement from her third-party bank account 
demonstrating Mrs B made certain payments out (which she has circled) also shows a credit 
of £1,000 from her father-in-law on 22 August 2019 with the reference owe hom office fee. I 
note that this hasnt been circled. There may well have been other payments on other 
statements or cash payments made by her father-in-law that havent been presented to us. 
In any event, whats relevant here is there is nothing to satisfy me that Mrs B and her father-
in-law had an agreement in place that he would repay any money Mrs B spent. And the 
third-party bank raised a fraud claim which Barclays appropriately acted on. I do appreciate it 
was some months after the transaction took place, but Barclays was still duty bound to 
respond to the third-party bank in the way it did. So, whilst I appreciate the amount of 
evidence Mrs B has supplied, I think this is a civil dispute between Mrs B and her father-in-
law and his family and not one that our service, or Barclays can say for certain what is 
rightfully owed to whom. 
Mrs B suggests that because of this, Barclays ought not to respond to the fraud report from 
the other bank. But I dont agree. As I have already explained Barclays are strictly regulated 
and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. I 
consider it was acting in accordance with those obligations when it returned money in 
response to the fraud report. 
The practice of providing indemnities in situations like this is well established. It gives 
business and consumers protection on recalling money when the money in question isnt 
rightfully owned. In this case, a third-party bank would be at a loss. Ive considered the third-
party banks reasons and explanation and I agree it was appropriate for Barclays to return 
the money. Other transactions from the third party to Mrs B were not disputed. Only one 
payment was highlighted on the fraud report by the other bank  so Barclays was simply 
responding to that one payment. 
In summary, banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their own money. And this is 
what has happened here. The other bank was at a loss because of the transfer. So, it 
exercised its right to claim its money back by raising an indemnity. I appreciate Mrs B feels 
she is at a loss because of this, but based on what Ive seen, I am not satisfied that Mrs B 
was definitely entitled to the £2,500.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mrs B feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a difficult and worrying time. I do understand Ms B is disappointed and I acknowledge 
she has provided a lot of information and documentation that she feels supports her case.  
Unfortunately, for the reasons explained above, it doesnt prove the money was owed to her 
and it isnt for me to decide who the money rightfully belongs to, only whether Barclays did 
anything wrong in acting as it did.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably. So, 
Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman