DRN-2550300
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance DAC (AXA) is responsible for damage in connection 
with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules is that  before bringing a complaint to us  a 
consumer must complain to the financial firm and give it up to eight weeks to send a final 
response to that complaint.
Mr P had a vehicle that he insured on a policy under which AXA was responsible for dealing 
with claims. Where I refer to AXA, I include others for whose actions I hold AXA responsible.
In mid-October 2019, Mr Ps vehicle was damaged in an accident. He made a claim to AXA. 
AXA arranged collection of the vehicle. AXA received photos of the vehicle on 18 October 
2019.
In late November 2019, AXA declined Mr Ps claim, saying his vehicle had been modified. 
On 9 December 2019, Mr P collected the vehicle. He complained to AXA that it had unfairly 
turned down his claim. During that complaint in mid-June 2020, Mr P made a separate 
complaint that AXA hadnt secured the vehicle, resulting in mould inside the car. 
By a final response dated 17 November 2020, AXA didnt accept that complaint. Mr P asked 
us to investigate that complaint. We have done so separately from the complaint about 
turning down the claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint (about the interior of the car) should be 
upheld. The investigator thought that the mould occurred in the location where Mr P stored 
his vehicle after 9 December 2019.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He would like to see evidence such as the yards CCTV.
AXA and its yard neglected his car.
His car wasnt correctly secured from bad weather conditions especially in the winter. 
He mentioned that to the yard employee after collecting his items weeks before 
taking the car off the yard.
The neglect caused the state of the car.
On the day of collection from the yard, his car was delivered to his mechanics. They 
can vouch for the car coming in the disgusting state seen in the photos.
He told us that the car was in a horrible state upon collection from the yard and we 
advised him to hold off with that complaint until we resolved his original complaint 
about turning down the claim. We resolved that complaint with no clear evidence.
He feels that due to his nationality, hes not getting the correct attention and fairness. 
The investigator made a decision within 3 days without any clear evidence from AXA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps car was an executive saloon registered in about 2014. It had a recorded mileage of 
about 85,000. 
Mr P says that  after the accident damage - AXA was responsible for causing further 
damage to his car. I consider that he has the burden of providing evidence to support that 
complaint. I dont consider that AXA has the burden of showing how it stored the damaged 
vehicle. 
The photographs taken in mid-October 2019 show serious damage to the front and drivers 
side of the vehicle. The drivers door wouldnt shut. The photos show the car stored 
outdoors. The photos show some ingress of rain and they show some condensation. They 
dont show any mould.
AXA was responsible for the custody of the vehicle for nearly two months. During that time 
Mr P collected personal belongings from the vehicle. Ive considered his statement that he 
mentioned that the car wasnt secure from the weather.
But the car was already seriously damaged with some age and mileage. And  from what he 
later told us - I find that Mr P was expecting AXA to write the car off and pay him its pre-
accident value. So I dont find that he complained at the time about how the damaged car 
was being stored.
I cant comment in this decision on the complaint about AXA turning down the claim, as we 
have been dealing with that complaint separately.
The two months came to an end when Mr P collected the vehicle on 9 December 2019. I 
havent seen any evidence from Mr Ps mechanics.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ps statement that after he collected the vehicle, its doors were 
secured, and it was covered in waterproof sheets.
Theres not enough evidence that Mr P identified or complained about mould until mid-June 
2020. At that time, he told us the following:
I haven't mentioned the mold to AXA as I was assuming they were going to pay out 
for the car since it was written off. But now that they are refusing to pay for the car I 
have to bring it up because If they don't pay out then I have to break the car into 
parts and at the current state no one will pay for the interior which was cause by the 
negligent from AXA and the scrap yard.
In response to that, our investigator told Mr P that he would have to complain to AXA about 
the mould and give AXA an opportunity to send a final response before he could bring the 
complaint to us.In early November 2020, Mr P told us the following:
After talking to my uncle who is currently holding the vehicle at his garage he has 
informed me that the interior aswell as all the electronics inside have been damaged 
due to the neglect from the insurance company and not taking the correct measures 
to secure the car during investigationtion. Due to this damage I am unable to sell the 
vehicle at all, as we discussed about brining this complaint forward to AXA after the 
claim issue has been resolved, due to this taking so long to get reviewed I would like 
to ask the other ombudsman that was meant to review the case or yourself to write a 
complaint for the damages to AXA instead
From that, I accept that Mr P waited from mid-June 2020 to early November 2020 before 
pursing his complaint about the interior damage. However, that doesnt explain why he didnt 
complain about the interior between 9 December 2019 and mid-June 2020.
His photos show mould on the drivers seat and steering wheel on 13 November 2020. 
Thats nearly a year after he collected the vehicle from AXA.
So I find it more likely that the mould to the interior occurred in the period of nearly a year 
after Mr P collected the vehicle on 9 December 2019, rather than in the period of about two 
months before that date. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold AXA responsible for 
such further damage to the vehicle. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance DAC to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman