DRN-3097796
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Lex Autolease 
ended.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
Lex. At the end of the agreement the car was inspected and collected.
Mr S says that the collection agent told him on three occasions during the inspection process 
that he would not be subject to any further charges. Mr S says he relied on this 
representation and that this induced him to sign the final paperwork and release the car.
Mr S subsequently received an invoice from Lex Autolease for damage charges. Mr S 
disputed these on the basis that hed been told that no charges would be applied. In 
response, Lex said the charges had been correctly applied, but said it would remove the 
charge for the incomplete service history if Mr S could provide evidence that this had taken 
place.
Mr S was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator said the charges had been applied fairly because the damage went beyond 
acceptable wear and tear according to the relevant guidelines. She also said the terms and 
conditions of the agreement allowed Lex to collect the damage charges by direct debit.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the collection agent had made repeated representations to him 
that he wouldnt incur any charges. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear, or missing items, are the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies a scratched bumper 
and a missing service history. The BVLRA guidelines say that scratches exceeding 25mm 
are outside of acceptable wear and tear. The scratch on the bumper of Mr Ss car is more 
than 25mm so I think the charge has been fairly applied, The BVLRA guidelines also say 
that charges will be applied for missing service history. In this case, the inspection identified 
that part of the service history was missing, so I think the charge has been fairly applied.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about the collection agent advising him that he 
wouldnt be charged. There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr S and the 
collection agent. Nor is there a written statement from the collection agent. Because I wasnt 
present during the discussions, I cant be certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances 
like these, I need to look at the available contemporaneous documents to decide whats 
most likely to have happened. Ive looked at the inspection report and the damage to the 
front bumper has been noted. In the circumstances, and because the damage has been 
noted, I dont think its likely that the collection agent wouldve advised Mr S that there would 
be no charges. Its possible (but Im speculating) that the collection agent might have said 
no further charges, which is what Mr S has reported the agent as having said. If that was 
the case, I can see how a misunderstanding might have arisen, with the collection agent 
meaning that there would be no further charges other than the charges for the bumper, and 
with Mr S interpreting this as meaning that there would be no charges at all.
In any event, there isnt enough evidence here for me to say that theres been a 
misrepresentation. Im not persuaded that theres any reasons to ask Lex to refund the 
charges.
Ive considered the point regarding the payment of the charges. Mr S has said that he asked 
Lex not to take any money from his account pending an investigation into his complaint. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. These say that all charges due under 
the agreement can be taken by direct debit. I cant see any evidence to suggest that Lex 
agreed to Mr Ss request not to debit charges pending the investigation. And I dont think its 
reasonable to infer Lexs agreement to this request due to a non-response. Based on the 
terms and conditions, Im unable to say that Lex acted unfairly by debiting the charges.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, Im of the view that Lex has applied the 
charges fairly, so I wont be asking it to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman