DRN-4155440
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about First Response Finance Ltds (First Response) decision to lend to 
him.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr W took out a hire purchase agreement with First Response to finance 
the purchase of a car. He paid a deposit of £50 and borrowed £6,825 over a 60-month term, 
with monthly repayments of £196.58. He says that at the time he was experiencing financial 
difficulty and the loan was unaffordable. So he thinks First Response shouldnt have lent to 
him and should repay the interest he paid them. 
Mr W complained to First Response but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said Mr Ws 
credit file at the time of his application showed a well-run current account, no overdraft and 
three credit cards with low balances and low credit limits, all of which were well paid. They 
said it also showed a well-paid credit facility with a low balance, a guarantor loan, and one 
unsecured loan of £395 which was being paid under an arrangement. They said Mr W had 
showed good intent in making an arrangement to pay this. So they were happy his credit file 
showed hed paid well and with good intent. They added that all payments towards credit 
facilities were taken into account in calculating affordability.
First Response went on to explain how theyd calculated affordability  saying theyd used 
an income figure of £2,531.78 per month which was a total of Mr Ws income and 50% of his 
partners as Mr Ws partner contributed towards the bills. They said they calculated monthly 
outgoings at the time of the application using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data.
In summary, they said, theyd carried out a credit file check and an income and expenditure 
check and obtained documentary evidence of Mr Ws income at the time. So they felt theyd 
done reasonable and proportionate checks. And they said these had shown the agreement 
was affordable for Mr W.
First Response also noted the agreement was settled early in March 2020 and Mr W hadnt 
missed any payments or made any late payments. Theyd seen no evidence that Mr W was 
experiencing financial difficulties and instead hed repeatedly asked for settlement figures. 
Mr W was unhappy with First Responses reply so he came to our service. He said First 
Response didnt do enough checks when they decided to lend to him. He disagreed with 
their figures for his net household income and was upset that theyd used national statistics 
to estimate his household bills. He said First Response should have done a proper income 
and expenditure assessment at the time of his application. He added that he didnt miss any 
payments on the hire purchase agreement because hed taken out loans to cover it  and his 
mother also sent him money to help with the monthly payments.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things and said he 
didnt think First Response had carried out proportionate checks. But, he said, he hadnt 
seen enough evidence to know what proportionate checks would have shown. He wasnt 
persuaded First Response had made an unfair lending decision. Mr W didnt accept our 
investigators view. He said hed had week after week of payday loans. He didnt think First 
Response should have included his partners income in the affordability checks. And he said 
he couldnt provide bank statements for his ex-partners account. As Mr W and our 
investigator couldnt reach agreement, the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did First Response carry out proportionate checks?
First Response looked at Mr Ws credit file. They also checked his payslip to confirm his 
monthly income. They used ONS data to estimate his expenditure and they spoke with him 
over the phone to discuss his employment, household circumstances, and expenditure.
At first glance this might appear to be proportionate. But the hire purchase agreement 
required Mr W to pay First Response around £12,000 over five years. This was a significant 
commitment for him, particularly given that his net monthly income was around £1,500. So 
Ive thought a bit more about the checks First Response did, and what they showed.
Credit file
Ive looked at the credit report obtained by First Response. This shows that Mr W was up to 
date with most of his payments and in general had good payment history in recent years. 
The credit report shows a couple of defaults but these were five years prior to the lending 
decision. And it shows three payday loans but again these had ended well before the lending 
decision  all of them over four years prior. 
The credit report showed that Mr W had three active credit cards  all with the balance within 
the limit, two unsecured loans, and a fixed term credit sale. Of these, one of the unsecured 
loans indicated some payment difficulties. I can see First Response asked Mr W about this 
and noted that hed changed banks and not sorted the direct debit. Whilst Mr Ws said the 
payment arrangement arose because of administrative errors, the credit report also shows 
the actual payment (£20) being significantly lower than the suggested payment (£70) which 
wouldnt be explained by an administrative error. And, because the arrangement to pay is an 
indicator of financial difficulties, I think this should have led First Response to carry out 
further checks on Mr Ws credit commitments.
Income and expenditure
First Response checked Mr Ws stated income to his payslip and adjusted it down a little to 
reflect the average net monthly income in the seven months hed been with his employer. 
They had a conversation with Mr W during which he confirmed hed passed probation and 
would be able to provide an employment contract and evidence of forthcoming pay rise if 
needed. Im satisfied First Response did enough to verify Mr Ws income.
But First Response also included half of Mr Ws partners income in their assessment of the 
affordability of the loan. They didnt check this income to any source, taking Mr Ws word for it. Whilst I appreciate First Response took a prudent approach in only including half of the 
stated amount, CONC 5.3.1G (4)(b) states that its not generally sufficient to rely on a 
customers statement of income and expenditure. I dont think First Response did enough to 
check this source of income. 
When checking expenditure, First Response used ONS data for a two-adult household in 
combination with a conversation with Mr W. They adjusted the ONS total figure for housing 
and council tax up from £580 to £600 as a result of these conversations but didnt change 
the ONS figure for cost of living, which was £420. I dont think it was unreasonable for First 
Response to use these figures. Mr W had already confirmed the rent and council tax were 
broadly in line with the statistical data so there wasnt any reason to expect the household 
cost of living to be very different.
These figures were household figures which First Response deducted from the combined 
household income  but then First Response deducted credit commitments relating to Mr W 
but not those of his partner. So the final income and expenditure and disposable income 
figure wasnt an accurate representation of either the individual or the household position. I 
think First Response should have done more to consider either the household position, 
taking into account Mr Ws partners credit commitments, or Mr Ws individual position.
In summary, taking into account the indicator of financial difficulties on Mr Ws credit file and 
the discrepancies in the income and expenditure, its fair to say First Response should have 
done more.
What would First Response have found?
A proportionate check would have involved First Response finding out more about Mr Ws 
credit commitments, income and expenditure. 
Credit commitments
Mr W says he had payday loans at the time of the lending decision, and in the months 
leading up to it. I can see from the evidence Mr Ws sent to us that this was the case 
throughout most of 2017. However, these dont appear on the credit report that First 
Response obtained and I cant see Mr W told First Response about them. Although theyd 
likely have appeared on a report from a different credit reference agency, I dont think itd be 
reasonable to say First Response should have checked more than one credit report for Mr W 
 the majority of lenders report to multiple credit reference agencies. So its not reasonable 
to say First Response should have found out about Mr Ws payday loans.
I would have expected First Response to ask for more information and documentation in 
respect of the loan for which Mr W had an arrangement to pay. But weve not been provided 
any documentation so I cant say what theyd have found in that respect.
The arrangement to pay was an indicator of financial difficulty so we asked for Mr Ws bank 
statements in the three months leading up to the lending decision to give us a better 
understanding of the position he was in at the time. The account weve had statements for 
had a positive balance of well over £3,000 for the whole of that three-month period. So if 
First Response had done more checks they would have likely concluded that the 
arrangement to pay was due to an administrative error on Mr Ws part rather than because 
of an inability to make payments against this £395 loan.     
Income and expenditure
I dont think it was necessarily wrong for First Response to consider Mr Ws household 
income and expenditure  Mr W told them hed been living with his partner for three years by 
February 2018. But I do think that if that was the approach they were going to take they should have verified Mr Ws partners income and looked at his credit commitments, as Ive 
outlined above. Mr W and his partner at the time have since separated so that information 
isnt available to us and its impossible to say what First Response would have found.
First Response could have instead looked at Mr Ws income and credit commitments and 
used 50% of the household expenditure. If theyd done that, it wouldnt have been 
unreasonable to have used a monthly income figure of £1,460, living costs of £210, and rent 
and council tax of £300. Deducting payments towards credit commitments from this of £214 
would have given an estimated monthly disposable income for Mr W of £736. First Credit 
say they also deduct a prudence payment of 25%, which would have reduced the £736 to 
£552. However, the repayment on the hire purchase agreement was less than £200. On that 
basis I think it would have been fair to say the lending was affordable for Mr W.
There are some inconsistencies in some of the information weve received. For example, 
Mr W told our investigator he paid £500 towards the rent and council tax, implying that this 
was his contribution, rather than the total rent being £500 which seems to be what he told 
First Response. Ive seen no evidence to support this  the bank statements weve been 
able to obtain for Mr W show fairly small amounts being paid to his ex-partner with the net 
payment between them in the three months preceding the loan being just £13 from Mr W to 
his partner. 
In summary, Ive not seen enough evidence to think that First Response ought to have 
decided this hire purchase agreement was unaffordable for Mr W. It follows that Im not 
persuaded First Response made an unfair lending decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about First Response Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman