DRN-3322157
The complaint
Mr Q and Mrs C, as trustees of the Trust, complain that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited 
trading as Sanlam Wealth didnt provide them with sufficient information about making the 
life policies in the Trust paid up.
Mr Q has been communicating with the Financial Ombudsman Service on behalf of the Trust 
so I will refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr Q is representing the Trust which owned a number of life insurance policies taken on the 
life of the late Mrs Q. The policies all provided different sums assured and premiums were 
paid yearly. The policies all paid out after Mrs Q passed away.
Mr Q, during the last months of Mrs Qs life, spoke to Sanlam to find out what could be done 
about the policies. He explained that the Trust was paying around £25,000 per year in 
premiums and Mrs Q was suffering from severe ill health. Mr Q found out that the policies 
could become paid up  which meant the underlying fund value for some of the policies 
could maintain the sum assured without any additional premiums being paid. Mr Q 
complained. He said that had Sanlam notified him of this hed have made the policies paid 
up earlier  saving over £25,000 in premiums.
Sanlam didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it isnt the servicing agent of the 
policies, it was just the product provider which limited it to providing the outcome of the 
reviews. It said it couldnt give advice. Our Investigator agreed. He explained that the 
policies could be made paid up, and information about the fund values was sent annually. 
But he said Sanlams responsibility was to carry out the reviews and let the trustees know 
whether the policies were able to be maintained with the premiums paid. The Investigator felt 
that Sanlam hadnt acted unreasonably in not suggesting the policies become paid up.
Mr Q disagreed. He said he wasnt made aware that the underlying funds could be used to 
pay the premiums for the policy. He felt Sanlam should make it clear that the policy could be 
paid up so he was able to make an informed decision. He asked for an Ombudsman to make 
a decision so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Sanlam didnt give any advice about these policies, so it wasnt responsible for ensuring they 
were suitable for the late Mrs Q. This also meant it wasnt responsible to give any ongoing 
advice about the policies. It had to carry out the reviews in line with the terms and provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive seen the annual statements and review letters Sanlam sent for the policies. The annual 
statements set out the value of the funds for each policy, the sums assured and the 
charges/premiums. The review letters list whether the premiums can maintain the current 
sums assured  and where a specific policys sum assured has to reduce, it sets out how 
much a top up policy would cost. It shows a total premium due for the year to support the full 
sums assured. And it gives the policyholder the option to choose to maintain the sum 
assured or maintain the premiums with a reduced sum assured.
As Mr Q has pointed out there isnt an option presented, in the review letters, to make the 
policies paid up. And I can see why this wouldve been useful given the circumstances. But 
by choosing to stop paying premiums on a policy, theres a risk that the policy could lapse 
without value. And this is all dependent on how long the fund can sustain the sum assured 
for  which depends on a variety of factors. So, I agree with Sanlam that it would be for a 
financial advisor to discuss this option with the policyholders. And Im satisfied that the 
information provided in annual statements was sufficient for Mr Q to get advice on this issue.
I can see that the terms of each policy show that if the premiums cease, then the policy 
would continue to run from the underlying fund value. So the option to make a policy paid up 
has always been available and was outlined in all the terms the trustees and Mrs Q received. 
So, I think Sanlam did provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading in this 
case. The purpose of the reviews is to let policyholders know whether the premiums can 
maintain the sum assured or what action needed to be taken  and this is what Sanlam did.
I can also see that the annual statements refer to contacting a financial advisor for advice. I 
understand Mr Q doesnt feel the Trust should have to pay for advice for policies that have 
been in place for so long, but I disagree. The policies were running each year and Sanlam 
continued to provide statements and review the policy as agreed. It would be for the Trust to 
seek advice if they wanted to look into stopping premiums. Sanlam, as policy provider, 
wouldnt be responsible to give this advice, and I think that it has provided sufficient 
information in relation to the policies for the trust to get this advice.
I understand why Mr Q is frustrated, now knowing that the trust couldve made some of the 
policies paid up earlier. But this is something that the Trustees financial advisor couldve 
advised them on had they asked. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs C as 
trustees of the Trust to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman