DRN-3126113
The complaint
Mr L complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr L was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total 
amount 
payable 
June 
2019£5,000 36
months£283.68 69.9% £10,212.48
When he brought his complaint to us Mr L was part way through paying the loan and 
there was a balance still outstanding.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided the loan to Mr L and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put 
things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that the checks TFS carried out were proportionate and it was 
satisfied TFS had an accurate understanding of Mr Ls financial circumstances and it made a 
fair lending decision.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr L applied for the loan, TFS asked about his income. After looking at his payslips 
TFS recorded Mr Ls income as approximately £1,656 a month. It asked Mr L about his 
regular expenditure and did its own credit checks to find out about his credit history. TFS 
allowed for his spending on credit commitments and kept in mind that the loan was intended 
to pay some of Mr Ls existing debt. After also including a £75 buffer to take account of 
variation in Mr Ls income or spending, it seems that TFS worked out that Mr L should still 
expect to have around £87 in disposable income after paying his TFS loan. 
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr L based on the 
information it had gathered. Despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr L 
had spare cash each month, I agree with our investigator that although the loan mightve 
looked affordable to TFS, this information appeared to be at odds with the information it had 
gathered showing warning signs that Mr L had been struggling to manage his finances for 
some time. 
I dont think that anything Mr L said was enough to explain the extent of his reliance on 
expensive credit or the evident payment problems TFS saw. 
I think TFS would have been aware that different credit searches can show different results  
so I think it shouldve understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show Mr Ls 
whole credit record. Additionally, this was a very expensive loan that Mr L was signing up to 
pay back by way of substantial monthly repayments for the next three years. The monthly 
cost presented a high risk of becoming unsustainable over the term of the loan. TFS checks 
needed to be borrower focused, so they needed a thorough understanding of Mr Ls financial circumstances to be satisfied he could afford the loan in a way that would be sustainable for 
him. 
So I think TFS should have carried out more in-depth checks and taken additional steps to 
verify Mr Ls financial situation before agreeing to provide the loan. 
TFS hasnt shown me it did this. This means I cant fairly say that it carried out a 
proportionate check before agreeing to lend this loan.
So I've thought carefully about what TFS is likely to have found out had it done a 
proportionate check  and whether this information was likely to have affected the lending 
decision it made.
I've looked at a credit report provided by Mr L which I think gives a useful insight into 
understanding Mr Ls overall financial situation at the time. I think if TFS had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely seen more information showing that 
there was a real risk that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan 
term. 
I say this because if TFS had gained a better understanding of Mr Ls finances and his use 
of credit, it would have seen more evidence that Mr L had an established record of taking out 
expensive high cost credit short-term loans  in the six months period running up to Mr L 
applying for this loan our investigator counted 16 credit agreements taken out by Mr L, 
mostly payday loans. I think our investigator was right to say that Mr Ls borrowing pattern 
clearly appeared to show that he was in a cycle of borrowing-repaying-borrowing again from 
multiple other short term lenders. 
Like our investigator, I think this pattern of short-term borrowing strongly suggests Mr L was 
already having serious money problems and he depended on taking out new credit to 
supplement his income. And when Mr L applied for this loan he was already making 
repayments to other providers of high cost credit that TFS knew nothing about which more 
than accounted for the amount of disposable income TFS thought he shouldve had 
according to its income and expenditure assessment. 
Despite the fact that part of the loan was intended for debt consolidation, overall this doesnt 
affect my view. Even if Mr L had used part of this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont 
think TFS was safely able to say this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
Also, I think the scale of his debts, bearing in mind that not all the loan was ever intended for 
debt consolidation, and the extent of his evident money problems and apparent reliance on 
short-term loans and high cost credit, would suggest that Mr L would remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless.
I think, as a responsible lender, had TFS seen all this information it should have realised that 
its loan would simply add to Mr Ls financial difficulties (and all the indications I can see on 
his credit report are that this reasonably foreseeable outcome is what happened).
To my mind, if it had done a proportionate check, I think TFS shouldve realised that Mr L 
was not in a position to sustainably repay a high-cost loan with repayments of around £283 
each month. So, it follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide this loan to 
Mr L in these circumstances. 
To sum up, overall:I dont think TFS did enough to be reasonably satisfied that providing this loan to 
Mr L wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts and adding 
to his money problems
I dont think TFS assessed affordability in a way that was fair and reasonable or that 
if TFS had done a proportionate check it would have seen anything to support its 
view that this was a fair lending decision. The information it should have found out by 
doing a proportionate check would have clearly demonstrated that the loan wasnt 
sustainably affordable. 
So I dont think TFS shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr L has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. 
So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Mr L in any other 
way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr L to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for a loan that should not 
have been provided to him.
 In line with this Services approach, Mr L shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr L received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr L made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr L having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr L bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ls credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman