DRN-3307113
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Miss A agreed to purchase some goods on a popular online marketplace. She used her 
Wise account to make two faster payments to the seller  a total of £700. When the goods 
didnt arrive, Miss A reported shed been the victim of a scam. 
Wise said it couldnt refund her as the payment had already been completed and its attempts 
to recall the money had been unsuccessful.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. They didnt think Wise 
could have known the payments were linked to fraud and were satisfied with its attempts to 
try and recover the money.
Miss A didnt agree. She thought she should have the same protection with Wise as any 
other bank, particularly given how regularly she was using her account. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing, but I dont think Wise have made an error here. Ill explain 
why. 
Theres no dispute that Miss A authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account she is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
Wise are not signatories of the Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, a voluntary 
code which requires firms to refund victims of scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances  so I cannot apply its provisions to this matter. 
Miss A has referenced chargebacks on a number of occasions, but the chargeback scheme 
only applies to payments made using credit or debit cards so, again, it is not relevant here.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
To be clear, that means Im considering whether Wise ought to have found the payments 
Miss A was making so suspicious or unusual that it ought to have contacted her before 
allowing them to leave her account. Other than not being able to apply the provisions of the 
CRM Code (which many, but not all banks are signed up to), Im considering the same 
question here as I would be if Miss A had made the payments from a bank account.
As Miss A points out  she had no reason to think she was falling victim to a scam at the 
time she was making the payments and had no reason to speak to Wise. Given the relatively 
modest size of the payments and how typical they were for her account, I cant see there 
would have been any reason for Wise to have queried them either. It follows that Wise 
havent made an error by allowing the payments to leave her account. 
While there does appear to have been a delay of a few days between Miss A reporting the 
scam and Wise contacting the firm which received her money, evidence obtained from that 
firm shows that Miss As funds were removed from the beneficiary account before she 
reported the scam to Wise. So, Wise couldnt have recovered Miss As funds even if it had 
acted sooner.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman