DRN-1622112
 
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited handled her 
claim following a road traffic incident. 
What happened
In July 2019 Ms Gs car was involved in an incident causing damage to her car. SGS were 
instructed to deal with the claim against the third party insurer (TPI). This included arranging 
a hire car, and instructing an engineer to assess the damage caused. 
SGS arranged for an engineer (SGS engineer) to assess Ms Gs car. Ms G was placed in a 
hire car. SGS engineer found that Ms Gs car was roadworthy. SGS engineer also found 
that it wasnt economical to repair the car, and deemed it a total loss. The average value of 
Ms Gs car based on two trade guides was recorded as £1,713. Ms G said shed be happy to 
accept this amount. 
Ms G was told that this amount would be put to the TPI for payment. Ms G was also asked to 
return the hire car.
Ms G contacted SGS saying there were problems with the indicator on her car which meant 
that she couldnt drive it. She asked for the hire car period to be extended. SGS engineer 
said that the car was found to be roadworthy at the time of inspection, and the damage was 
not accident related. Because of this, Ms G was told that the TPI wouldnt agree to pay for 
additional hire car costs. 
Ms G chased SGS for the total loss payment. SGS explained that the TPI had been made 
aware, and they were waiting for a response. The TPI said theyd instruct their own engineer 
to assess Ms Gs car (TPIs engineer). 
The TPIs engineer didnt agree with SGS engineers findings. The TPI disputed the total 
loss decision, saying that damage unrelated to the accident had been considered when 
assessing repair costs. The TPI said theyd agree to settle the claim on a cash-in-lieu basis. 
This would mean that Ms G is paid the repair costs, instead of the total loss amount. The 
TPIs engineer said this amounts to £634.21 including VAT.
Ms G complained to SGS about the way her claim had been handled saying that she was 
expecting the total loss amount to be paid, and SGS didnt help with this. Ms G also said she 
would not have brought a new car if there was a chance she wasnt going to receive the full 
amount. SGS responded saying that the decision not to pay the total loss amount was made 
by the TPI. SGS also explained that Ms G could make a claim through her comprehensive 
insurance policy if she wanted to. Ms G was unhappy with this response and so referred her 
complaint to this service. 
The investigator found that SGS had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything in 
settlement of Ms Gs complaint. Ms G didnt agree with these findings, saying that she didnt want to be left without a car for too long, and so she accepted the offer straight away. Ms G 
said SGS didnt follow through with what had been agreed. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reviewed the evidence I broadly agree with the investigators findings and outcome 
on this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms G but I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ms G says she couldnt use her own car after SGS engineer declared it roadworthy because 
there were issues with the indicator, and it wouldnt start. Ms G says she was forced to pay 
for a hire car herself, so that she could get to work. I appreciate this mustve been really 
frustrating for Ms G. Ive considered SGS work on the claim, and what they did when Ms G 
reported the issues.
SGS contacted the engineer for further comment. Although the engineer initially said it 
wasnt accident related, SGS continued to send updates from Ms G about why she thought it 
was accident related. The engineer investigated the issue further and commented After 
reviewing this claim with all the information I have, It is my opinion the damage is not severe 
enough or in the correct area (height of the damage is too low and has not impact the rear 
lamps), to cause any damage to the indicators or render the vehicle a non-starter. I 
appreciate Ms G feels strongly that the damage was accident related, and she shouldve 
been provided with a hire car while she was unable to drive her own. 
SGS provided Ms Gs hire car on a credit basis. This means that on conclusion of Ms Gs 
claim, the costs are recovered from the TPI. Because of this, its important to ensure any 
costs claimed from the TPI are fair and proportionate. An engineers professional opinion is 
generally regarded as an impartial and independent view. Generally wed say its fair for an 
accident management company to rely on this. 
I think SGS acted fairly in escalating the issues, and informing Ms G why the hire car 
couldnt be provided for any longer. These costs were ultimately recoverable from the TPI. 
There wasnt any prospect of this happening based on the engineers opinion. So I think 
SGS decision not to provide a hire car for that time was fair. 
Ms G says that a contract was agreed when she was told what the total loss value would be. 
Ive seen that this was communicated to Ms G on 12 July 2019 (Friday) by SGS engineer. 
She was also told that SGS would contact her the following week to discuss the claim. On 16 
July (Tuesday) Ms G was told that SGS engineers report would be sent to the TPI to review 
and Explained from issuing the report which was done 13.07, we chase the TPI for PAV and 
update her accordingly. There isnt a timescale on this payment. I think Ms Gs expectations 
were fairly managed on what would happen with her claim. 
Ms G feels strongly that her decision to buy a new car was based on receiving the total loss 
amount. I can appreciate the upset caused to Ms G because her claim didnt progress as 
she was expecting. But I dont think it would be fair to hold SGS responsible for this. The TPI 
disputed SGS engineers findings. Because of this, the TPI instructed their own engineer to 
assess Ms Gs car. This changed the TPIs decision on the claim. But SGS maintained that 
their own engineers assessment was fair and correct. They discussed this with Ms Gs insurer, and also provided Ms G with the option to pursue her claim through her own 
insurance. After Ms G complained, SGS also discussed litigation against the TPI so theyd 
have to pay Ms G the total loss value. I think these actions were fair. 
Ms G says that SGS engineers report was correct and should have been relied on. Theres 
no dispute that SGS engineer recorded that Ms Gs claim should be dealt with as a total 
loss. However SGS engineer reaching this outcome does not mean that this is how the TPI 
would settle the claim. The hope is that the TPI would accept SGS engineers findings and 
the claim would finalise based on this. However, theres no guarantee that this is what would 
happen. I also cant see any evidence to indicate that Ms G was told this would be the case. 
Although the outcome of the claim wasnt what Ms G was hoping for, SGS handled the claim 
fairly. Because of this, I wont be asking SGS to do anything in settlement of Ms Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman