DRN-1694213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wont agree that their personal 
loan should be added to their mortgage account. They would like NatWest to do that and 
repay the extra interest that they have been paying on their personal loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought a property under the Right to Buy Scheme. They wanted to make 
adaptions to the house to assist with the needs of one of their children who was seriously ill 
and approached NatWest in early 2018 about further borrowing. Mr and Mrs D got a quote 
from a builder that the work would cost £65,000. Mr and Mrs D say they wanted to borrow 
£50,000. Their mortgage was on a fixed rate product until September 2018. Mr and Mrs D 
were also told that the Scheme had a restriction preventing additional borrowing until they 
had owned the property for five years, but they managed to get the restriction removed. Mr 
and Mrs D say that the NatWest adviser suggested that the application would take some 
time but that they could take a personal loan of £30,000 immediately and then add this to the 
mortgage when the mortgage product was being reviewed. So, Mr and Mrs D took out the 
personal loan in May 2018.
NatWest say that the adviser told Mr and Mrs D that they could wait until September to get 
the same rate on all borrowing or take the personal loan in May but not that the personal 
loan could be transferred into the mortgage. Mr and Mrs D were anxious as the work had 
already started and NatWest says they took out the personal loan rather than wait. But 
NatWest confirmed that the adviser had given Mr and Mrs D incorrect information and 
offered them £250 in compensation. 
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs D following a separate application process got a further 
advance of £30,000 on the mortgage to complete the building works. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he believed that Mr and Mrs D would 
have taken out the personal loan in any case. Mr and Mrs D disagree and say that they were 
specifically told that they would only have to make one payment or so towards the loan and 
then the loan would transfer to the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D were looking to borrow money for necessary work to be done on their house 
as they had a child who was very ill. Ive seen a Schedule of Work prepared by a builder 
which says that the work would take about 5 months and cost £65,000. Mr and Mrs D were 
looking to borrow money from NatWest which they did. Firstly, by way of a personal loan for 
£30,000 which they took out in May 2018 and secondly by way of a further loan added to 
their mortgage for £30,000 which was approved in January 2019. But Mr and Mrs D say that 
they took out the personal loan because NatWest assured them it would be added to the 
mortgage.  
This is an unusual complaint. It relates to what was said between Mr and Mrs D and a 
NatWest adviser who they say told them that if they took out a personal loan that this would 
transfer onto a mortgage automatically without a further mortgage application. Mr and Mrs D 
were at the same time applying for a further advance on the mortgage which took some time 
so they would have been aware that obtaining a mortgage wasnt straightforward but their 
evidence is that  when they took out the personal loan that the adviser told them that  you 
only have to pay one payment or so of the loan before it goes over to your mortgage so you 
dont have anything at all to worry about, So, if I accept what Mr and Mrs D say they were in 
effect signing a personal loan and a mortgage agreement when they signed for the personal 
loan. 
But there is no paperwork confirming Mr and Mrs Ds version of events such as a letter from 
NatWest saying that the personal loan was to be transferred into the mortgage. Indeed, all 
the paperwork points in the other direction that there was a personal loan for £30,000 and 
then six months later a further advance on the mortgage of £30,000. Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint is largely based on their recollection of an unrecorded conversation in 2018. I 
have to consider whether on balance it is likely that the bank made such a promise to them 
in that conversation.
I should say that Ive not come across a similar situation where a bank promised a customer 
that it would turn a personal loan into a mortgage without a mortgage application. It would be 
the normal case that bank staff could handle a personal loan application but in the case of a 
mortgage would pass the matter over to a mortgage adviser. In this case the only document 
that Mr and Mrs D have is a personal loan agreement which makes no mention of it being 
transferable to a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D then applied for a further advance on their mortgage for the extra £30,000 and 
after a period they got a mortgage offer. When this was approved Mr and Mrs D got an 
agreement which they signed. Its dated 18 January 2019 and sets out that the mortgage is 
now composed of two loans. Firstly, the original loan which was then £54,134.26 and 
secondly the recently approved further advance on the mortgage of £30,000. According to 
what Mr and Mrs D have told us, this would be incorrect as at that stage according to their 
evidence, the mortgage should have had an extra £30,000 added. 
So, if I accept what Mr and Mrs D say, this agreement would have been wrong as not only 
did it not set out the correct amount that would be then due on the mortgage, but it also 
didnt set out what the correct monthly payments should have been. But Mr and Mrs D went 
ahead and signed this agreement. If they felt that the personal loan had transferred into the 
mortgage that document was clearly wrong. In that case I dont understand why they signed 
it, but they did. The fact that they signed it suggests to me that this document correctly 
records what they understood the situation to be and that they hadnt expected the personal 
loan to transfer automatically over to the mortgage. 
I accept that the NatWest adviser at their meeting spoke of a loan and a mortgage.  Mr and 
Mrs D say that she promised the personal loan would roll over into the mortgage in the next 
couple of months. That isnt what usually happens. The normal situation would be that the 
bank adviser would deal with a personal loan but not with a mortgage which would require 
separate advice. I appreciate that this could be potentially confusing for Mr and Mrs D as 
they are simply dealing with bank staff and may be unaware of internal processes. To avoid 
confusion, NatWest gave them the personal loan agreement document which gives them the 
protections of the Consumer Credit Act but doesnt make any promises about it being 
transferred into the mortgage and the interest rate being reduced as a result. The bank adviser says that she didnt tell Mr and Mrs D that the personal loan would roll over 
into the mortgage. I note that NatWest upheld a complaint that the adviser provided incorrect 
information without saying what that was. I raised that with NatWest who tell me that the 
bank adviser was unaware that Mr and Mrs Ds property was on a Right to Buy and didnt 
have all the information at hand to deal with Mr and Mrs Ds query so, on that basis, it upheld 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and offered £250 which seems reasonable. I note that the adviser 
confirms that she was unaware that it was a Right to Buy in her statement. But the adviser 
doesnt agree with Mr and Mrs Ds complaint that she also said that the loan could simply 
transfer to a mortgage and I note that these are separate issues.  
The problem with the reliance on what is said in a conversation is that recollections of what 
was said arent perfect. So, I have to look for supporting evidence of what is likely to have 
been said. The bank adviser disagrees that she promised that the personal loan would 
automatically transfer, and the documentation supports this and not Mr and Mrs D. Mr and 
Mrs D got the personal loan agreement which set out the terms of that loan but made no 
suggestion that these terms would transfer into the different terms of a mortgage. 
In January 2019, six months after the date that Mr and Mrs D say the personal loan was to 
be transferred, they got another agreement which made clear that the personal loan hadnt 
been transferred. Mr and Mrs D signed that agreement and I believe that its reasonable for 
me to conclude that they knew that the personal loan wasnt to be part of the mortgage. In 
addition, its not normal practice that a personal loan would transfer into a mortgage and in 
those circumstances, I find it unlikely that a bank adviser would make that promise. For 
these reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I will leave Mr and Mrs D to accept the 
£250 offered by NatWest should they wish to do so.   
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman