DRN-2836828
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief, 
Mr L had said he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited and offered a pension 
review. Mr L was in his mid-40s, and had a personal pension with an approximate value of 
£18,000. Mr L had said he was told he could benefit from guaranteed returns but not made 
aware of the risks involved. St Pauls Marketing had provided Mr L with promotional material 
relating to investing in debentures issued by Just Loans. 
Mr L subsequently opened a SIPP and approximately £18,000 was transferred to it in 
September 2016. The majority of the funds were then transferred to a stockbroking account 
and invested in the Just Loans debentures. 
Mr L, through his representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in March 2020. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the 
complaint. The representative referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander David for 
its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. However, no 
files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that, on the evidence, he thought it was likely that St Pauls Marketing 
had recommended the investment to Mr L. He said it had provided him with all the 
information about the debentures and the benefits of transferring his existing pension to the 
SIPP. He said as St Pauls Marketing had advised Mr L on the investment hed considered 
whether the advice was suitable for his circumstances at the time.
The investigator noted that Mr S was in his mid-forties at the time of advice and his pension 
was the only provision he had to rely on in retirement. He said Mr L was a low risk investor 
who couldnt afford any loss to the value of his funds. The investigator said an adviser 
providing a recommendation in the best interests of their client should have identified this.
The investigator referred to COBS 10 (Conduct of Business Rules) which said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable
security, derivative, or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought to
have been aware, that the application or order is in response to direct offer financial
promotion.
And COBS 10.2.1 which said
:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to
the product or service offered or demanded.
The investigator said a high-risk investment of this type would be more suitable for an
experienced investor with some capacity for loss. He said it was clear that Mr L wasnt such 
an investor, as he had little investment experience or capacity for loss.
The investigator also referred to the Regulators Principles for Business which he said all
regulated firms must follow. He said the Principles required St Pauls Marketing to, amongst
other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly, and take
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any
customer who was entitled to rely upon its judgment. The investigator said he didnt think St
Pauls Marketing had met these requirements. He said if they had they wouldnt have
recommended the investment to Mr L.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator e-mailed both parties on 14 July 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a final
decision. No further material evidence or arguments were presented by either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Ls original complaint or to the investigators requests
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at
the time of the transfer and investment.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available, including Mr Ls recollections of
events. The investigator set out his thoughts on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander
David hasnt disputed what he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
St Pauls Marketing was involved from the outset and following its input Mr L transferred his
pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for
someone of Mr Ls background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in
order to invest in this type of investment without some external prompting. I think it was
unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it
initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment
was going to be made and facilitated it.
When Mr L first made his complaint to Alexander David he said that he had been advised to
transfer his pension. He said he thought the advice was unsuitable. When the investigator 
sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David he said he thought St Pauls 
Marketing had recommended the transfer and investment in the debentures to Mr L.  
Alexander David hasnt disputed any of this or provided further evidence or arguments to 
consider.
In all the circumstances, and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think
its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did provide regulated advice to Mr L to
transfer and invest in the debentures.The debentures were listed on a smaller overseas exchange, had limited liquidity, and the
firm behind them were operating in a relatively new market and had a limited track record. In
my view investing the majority of Mr Ls pension in a single asset increased the degree of
risk the transaction presented. Overall, I think the transfer and investment into the
debentures presented significant risks, and beyond the degree of risk Mr L was willing or
had the capacity to accept. Accordingly, I think the advice was unsuitable.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr L, I think the evidence shows it
was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable
security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Ls knowledge and experience
in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered, so that it
could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for him.
Mr L said he had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. The
debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr L given
his knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr L. And like the investigator, I dont think St
Pauls Marketing took reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice or acted in Mr Ls
best interests.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr L to transfer and invest in the
debentures, or if it had told him they werent suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr L to transfer and
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr L has claimed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mr L 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, 
but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mr L fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should compare the 
performance of Mr Ls investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is 
greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is 
a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr Ls pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Limited 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls pension plan it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. 
I think Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
 
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Ls
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should:
  Pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has caused him. 
 Provide details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format. 
 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Limited 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment). 
Fair value 
This is what the transfer value would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr Ls circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in his complaint Mr L said he was a low risk taker. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
Mr L would have transferred but for St Pauls Marketings failures. But his existing pension 
was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than he has said he was prepared 
to accept. So I think its likely he would have switched to funds better aligned to his risk 
profile if suitable advice had been given. I dont know exactly how he would have invested. 
But I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable 
proxy for the level of risk that Mr L was willing and able to take. 
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
  The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ls risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr L into that position.
It doesnt mean that Mr L would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives and risk 
attitude. 
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 25 January 2019; 
the date that Mr L decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair given 
Mr L had made his decision to reinvest his money of his own accord. I dont think Alexander 
David is responsible for any losses arising from the re-investment. 
And although Mr L may have suffered a degree of distress when the return on the 
debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a limited period given he agreed to 
reinvest in the debentures. So I think £100 is fair in the particular circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I order Alexander David Securities Limited 
to calculate and pay compensation to Mr L on the basis I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman