DRN-2593166
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading under a different business name) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To keep things simpler, from now on Ill just refer to Lloyds as the seller as it is responsible 
for dealing with this complaint.
What happened
Mr H took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in October 2001. The policy protected 
his mortgage monthly repayments if he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr H mainly said he was unhappy because, although he couldnt recall all the details of the 
sale, there did seem to be an implication that the mortgage would be approved if the policy 
was taken out. And Mr H feels PPI was probably not appropriate for him  particularly as it 
added to his costs and he later had financial problems. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to review his  complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I dont know exactly what was said when Mr H arranged the mortgage and applied for PPI. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr H is sure about what hes told us he remembers. But its 
completely understandable that he cant now recall in detail what was discussed at the time. 
This means that what Mr H says about the way he was sold PPI isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely.
Mr H wouldve been able to see from the mortgage application that it was up to him to 
choose whether or not he wanted PPI. I say this because theres a section on the form in 
bold type headed Payment Protection Insurance that includes information for applicants 
who chose not to take out the PPI offered.
And it looks as if PPI was probably discussed during the mortgage application process as 
Mr H also completed a separate online PPI application the same day he signed his mortgage 
application in order to have the cover added on. 
So, although I dont know how the PPI was presented to him, I think Mr H wouldve been 
aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted to have PPI with the mortgage. 
Mr H indicated on the PPI application how much cover he wanted to have. He signed the 
declaration at the end of the completed application confirming that he met the requirements 
to apply for the cover and he agreed with the information put on the form. 
At the same time Mr H also signed paperwork to set up monthly payment arrangements at 
his bank to cover the PPI cost. 
So, on balance, I think Mr H signed up for the policy knowing it was an optional extra with his 
mortgage  and PPI was added to his mortgage account when Mr H chose to buy the policy. 
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr H. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So Ive kept this in mind 
when looking at Mr Hs complaint.
Lloyds has provided a policy document which came into use the same month that Mr Hs 
policy started. So I think its likely that in all main respects this shows the terms and 
conditions that wouldve applied to Mr H.
The policy couldve covered Mr Hs mortgage repayments (and paid out an extra amount) for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr H was unable to work.
Ive taken into account that he told us his employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for 6 
months followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 
12 months per accident and sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than he 
couldve relied on getting through his employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr H with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled and he wouldve only been on half pay after being off work sick for 
6 months. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr H lost his job unexpectedly and he was unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr H if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr H some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Although Mr H mentioned having savings, it looks like he also had a number of other 
substantial credit commitments when he arranged his mortgage. So its possible he didnt 
have as much spare cash at the time as he thinks. And in any event, if he took out this 
mortgage rather than use savings to reduce the amount of his borrowing and keep down the 
overall cost of his mortgage I can see why he mightve wanted to take out the policy. Having 
PPI meant Mr H could keep his savings to spend on other things. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mr H taking into 
account what hes told us about his situation at the time. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main terms or conditions that 
mightve limited the policys benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think 
that knowing more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to 
Mr Hs decision to have PPI. Mr H chose to take out the policy and so he appears to have wanted this type of cover. He 
was eligible for the policy. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H when he 
bought the policy. But, he seems to have been happy to pay for it at the time as he made the 
arrangements at his bank to do this when he applied for the cover. From what Ive seen, it 
doesnt appear to have been unaffordable for him at the time. As it was a policy he paid for 
each month Mr H was able to cancel the policy at any time without losing out financially. 
Im very sorry to learn that Mr H had serious money problems some years later. But this 
doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold to him in 2001. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr H still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him worthwhile protection in his particular situation. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to Mr H some of the commission 
he paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types 
of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Hs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund 
any of the commission Mr H paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
This means Lloyds doesnt need to take any steps to put things right. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman