DRN-1649834
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Woolwich Building 
Society) mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Miss J in 2008. The policy 
provided Miss J with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Barclays gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Js needs?
-    Did Barclays give Miss J the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Miss 
J is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Miss J says Barclays put her under pressure to buy the PPI, and that she wasnt given a 
proper choice. She says Barclays gave her the impression she had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage she wanted. Ive noted everything that Miss J has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss J and Barclays 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. Ive looked at the documents Barclays has provided from the point of sale. I note that the 
mortgage illustration Barclays provided to Miss J included a section about insurance, which 
said:
Insurance you must take out as a condition of this mortgage that you do not have to take out 
through Woolwich  Buildings insurance.
PPI was not mentioned in that section of the document. And Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Miss J has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Barclays didnt make the optional nature of the policy clear to her.
The bank has accepted that it advised Miss J to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-    Miss J was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-    Miss J says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work due 
to sickness or accident and that her parents wouldve helped her. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to Miss Js occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place would mean Miss J could use her work-related benefits to pay for 
other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to rely on her family. So I think Miss J 
would have had some use for the policy despite her existing arrangements.
-    Miss J wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I dont think Miss J needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-    I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was made clear to Miss J before she agreed to 
buy it. But Miss J chose to take it out, knowing she would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I dont think Miss J would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Miss J wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss J would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.
Miss J considers the policy was unsuitable for her because there was a 60 day waiting 
period before she could make a successful claim. She also considers the nature of her work 
meant the PPI wasnt suitable.
Ive noted what Miss J has said, but Im satisfied that the waiting period was in line with 
similar policies and I dont consider it to be excessive. 
I accept that Miss Js work meant she may have changed employers relatively frequently. 
But Im not persuaded that means the PPI was unsuitable. As Ive already said, I consider 
the policy couldve provided a useful benefit for Miss J if she was off work sick because of 
sickness or accident.Overall, the additional points Miss J has made dont change my overall conclusions about 
the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman