DRN-3808918
The complaint
Mr F complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) 
(MoneyBoat) gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
Mr F took four loans from MoneyBoat between November 2018 and May 2020. Ive outlined 
a summary of his borrowing below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £200.00 07/11/2018 31/12/2018 2 £127.46
2 £400.00 28/01/2019 31/05/2019 4 £158.65
gap in lending
3 £200.00 15/05/2020 29/05/2020 2 £120.86
4 £300.00 02/06/2020 30/06/2020 2 £196.96
Following Mr Fs complaint, MoneyBoat issued its final response letter. In summary, it said it 
had carried out proportionate checks which included asking Mr F about his income and 
expenditure and carrying out a credit search before each loan was approved. Based on 
these checks, MoneyBoat was confident Mr F would be able to afford his monthly credit 
commitment. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill, MoneyBoat agreed to refund the interest charged to loan 
4, which came to £58.80. Mr F didnt accept this offer and instead referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded MoneyBoat made a 
reasonable decision to lend loans 1 and 2 because the loans looked affordable. However, 
the adjudicator didnt think loans 3 and 4 shouldve have been granted. 
She said, for loan 3 Mr F was fully utilising his overdraft and so any new credit was unlikely 
to be affordable for him  she also suggested perhaps further checks ought to have been 
carried out. 
For loan 4, the adjudicator could see further loans in the credit checks provided by 
MoneyBoat and the full monthly repayments for these loans werent considered as part of 
the monthly expenditure. Again, she thought perhaps further checks ought to have been 
carried. 
The adjudicator, could see, that had MoneyBoat considered Mr Fs bank statements it 
wouldve likely discovered he had a number of outstanding high-cost short term loans 
outstanding and was spending a significant amount of his income each month gambling. 
Both Mr F and MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr F could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Fs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr F. These factors include:
Mr F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr F.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr F was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
As neither Mr F nor MoneyBoat appear to disagree with the adjudicators assessment about 
the outcome for loans 1 and 2. So, I therefore consider these loans are no longer in dispute. 
I will make no finding about them, but Ive kept them in mind when thinking about the overall 
lending relationship.  
There was around a year gap between Mr F repaying loan 2 and taking on loan 3. Ive 
therefore considered loan 3 to be the start of a new chain of lending. In effect, MoneyBoat 
was entitled to treat Mr F as a new customer. However, what MoneyBoat couldnt do is carry out checks and not react to what it was being told. And Ive explained what this means for 
Mr Fs complaint below. 
MoneyBoat has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr F for details 
of his income and expenditure. Mr Fs income has been recorded for loan 3 as being £1,674 
per month. Mr F also declared his monthly outgoings were £558. However, following further 
checks (including a credit search which I comment on below) MoneyBoat increased his living 
costs by a further £242.
This left Mr F with disposable monthly income of £874. This was more than sufficient for 
MoneyBoat to believe Mr F could afford the largest repayment of around £121 per month for 
loan 3. The loan therefore looked affordable. 
Before loan 3 was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to add that 
although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely reflect the 
information Mr F may be able to see in his own credit report. There could be for a number of 
reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of information. But what 
MoneyBoat cant do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at 
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either 
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possible have declined Mr Fs 
application. 
Having reviewed these results, I can see at the time this loan was approved Mr F had 9 
active credit accounts with outstanding balances of £6,662. And it was aware that Mr F 
hadnt defaulted on any credit accounts within the last three years. 
It did know that Mr F had opened seven accounts within the last six months  which could be 
a sign that possibly Mr F was having problems, because this was an average of more than 
one new credit account per month. 
In my view, this could have been a sign that he was reliant on this type of credit or at least 
was showing there was an underlaying need why Mr F was constantly seeking and being 
granted new credit. Indeed, this is supported by the fact that Mr F had opened 123 accounts 
within the last six years.  
Given the credit check results, I think, it ought to have started to verify the information Mr F 
had provided. It was already on notice, from its own checks that Mr F may have potentially 
be under reporting his expenditure as MoneyBoat had to increase his declared expenditure. 
So, I think, fully checking Mr Fs income and expenditure wouldve been the prudent thing to 
do. 
MoneyBoat couldve gone about doing further checks a number of ways, it couldve asked 
for documentation from Mr F in the form of wage slips and / or copy bills, or it couldve asked 
to see Mr Fs bank statements. 
I accept there is no regulatory requirement for MoneyBoat to have viewed the bank 
statements but in this case, I think it was proportionate to do so. Mr F has sent us copy bank 
statements for the period of time shortly before this loan was approved. So, Ive looked at the April 2020 statement to see what MoneyBoat may have discovered. I 
can see Mr F was spending a significant amount each month on gambling websites  in 
April 2020 he spent at least £2,000 on such transactions. Mr Fs account shows an income 
payment of around £1,800 so Mr F was spending more than his income each month on 
these transactions and therefore Mr F would unlikely be able to repay this loan sustainably. 
Moving forward, for loan 4 MoneyBoat carried out the same types of checks as it had done 
before loan 3 was approved. Based on the income and expenditure Mr F provided  and 
following its credit search MoneyBoat calculated his monthly disposable income was around 
£985. 
But, for the same reasons as loan 3 I do think MoneyBoat needed to have done further 
checks and once again Mr F has provided his bank statements covering the period when this 
loan was approved. 
At the very least, Mr F had three high-cost credit loans outstanding at the time with monthly 
payments of nearly £600. It also seems, that this MoneyBoat loan was approved on the 
same day that another high-cost loan was repaid  which had cost Mr F nearly £290 to 
settle. 
In addition, Mr F was still spending significant amounts each month on gambling websites, in 
May 2020 Mr F spent at least £3,200 which was significantly more than Mr Fs income. So 
again, had MoneyBoat carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Mr F couldnt afford to take on any further credit. 
Im therefore upholding Mr Fs complaint about loans 3 and 4 only and Ive outlined below 
what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr F from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr F may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr F in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr F would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So, 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr F loans 3 and 4.A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr F which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr F the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Fs credit 
file in relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint in part. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) should put things right for 
Mr F as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman