DRN-2520194
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Advantage Finance Ltd placed a marker on her credit file.   
What happened
In July 2015 Mrs P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage.
At the end of the agreement, and with the last payment remaining, Mrs P contacted 
Advantage to check that her direct debit payment would be the last one. She says she was 
offered the choice to pay the final payment as two payments over two months rather than 
one final payment. She says she decided to accept this offer, made the two payments and 
thought nothing more of it at the time.
Approximately two years later, when Mrs P was applying for finance, she discovered that 
Advantage had placed an arrangement to pay marker on her credit file. She says this 
impacted her ability to obtain credit. 
In response to Mrs Ps complaint, Advantage said Mrs P had asked to split her final payment 
and had been made aware at the time that a £12 charge would apply and that a payment 
arrangement would be put in place. It said that because Mrs P had made a payment 
arrangement, it hadnt done anything wrong by notifying the credit reference agencies.
Mrs P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She says she wouldnt 
have agreed to spitting the final payment if shed known this would result in a marker on her 
credit file.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Advantage had made it clear to Mrs P 
that the arrangement would affect her credit file. He said Advantage should remove the 
adverse information and pay compensation.
Mrs P didnt agree. She thought the compensation wasnt enough and said the matter had 
impacted her ability to get credit.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement. This shows that Mrs P was contracted to make 35 payments of 
£153.91 and a final payment of £328.91.
I can see that in July 2018 Mrs  P spoke to Advantage and , as a result of that conversation, 
the final payment was split over two months. Mrs P doesnt deny that a conversation took 
place. She says she called Advantage to check that this was her final payment and agreed 
to its suggestion that she split it as she thought it would leave her with some extra money.
I havent been able to listen to the call recording so I cant be certain of exactly what as said. 
So, I need to look at any notes that were made at the time, as well as all the other 
circumstances of the case, to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
The file note made by Advantage at the time says that the payment is being split but it 
doesnt say that Mrs P was made aware that this was a payment arrangement that would 
impact her credit file. So, I cant be sure that Mrs P was made aware of the consequences of 
splitting the payment. Advantage is obliged to make the consequences of a payment 
arrangement clear. Im not persuaded that it did so.
Ive looked at Mrs Ps payment history. She made all the payments under the agreement on 
time. Based on this, Im inclined to accept her testimony that she wouldnt have done 
anything to impact her credit file. 
I havent seen any evidence from Advantage which persuades me that it made Mrs P aware 
of the consequences of a payment arrangement  or that splitting the payment over two 
months would result in a payment arrangement. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Advantage acted fairly by applying the marker on Mrs Ps credit file.  
Putting things right
 I understand that Mrs P feels that this has affected her ability to obtain credit. However, 
based on what Ive seen, I cant be certain that the marker is the reason for Mrs P being 
refused credit. Finance providers decline credit for a variety of reasons. That said, I can see 
that this matter has caused Mrs P a great deal of distress. And because  as Ive said  I 
dont think Advantage acted fairly in applying the marker, I think it should pay compensation 
to Mrs P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Advantage Finance Ltd must:
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ps credit file
Refund the £12 charge for the payment arrangement
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman