DRN-2093886
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr W in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Having done that, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
It seems that Mr and Mrs Ws policy was applied for using a specific PPI application, 
separate to their application for the mortgage itself. The PPIs cost was set out as a separate 
cost, too  the insurance was not part and parcel of the mortgage. And given the details 
needed to fill out the form, I think its most likely that it was discussed with Mr and Mrs W 
before being submitted.
Mr W pointed out that he declined a recommendation for critical illness cover. But while I can 
certainly understand the confusion, Im afraid thats a different insurance to PPI and wasnt 
relevant here. His financial report also said he declined to discuss income protection on that 
day. But given that his PPI policy started the very next day, it would suggest that hed 
already applied for it  or was in the process of applying for it  which would explain why he 
didnt then want to discuss it again. Lastly, Mr W said he wouldnt have understood what he 
was applying for. But I think the PPI application was clear on what it was for.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time  from what Ive 
seen, in order to get this policy Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to actively choose it. And Ive 
not seen anything which makes me think that Mr and Mrs W were misled or unfairly 
pressured into having PPI here. I understand that Mr and Mrs W may now feel that they 
wouldnt have taken out PPI, especially after all the publicity about it. But while PPI was mis-
sold in some situations, in others it was a useful form of protection. I also need to bear in 
mind that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was particularly long ago. 
Overall, I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs W aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can completely 
understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr W was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations. While he had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of those and offered him more comprehensive cover  especially for when 
his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay or ran out entirely. The PPI meant 
Mr and Mrs W could effectively protect their savings and use them for other things  and 
according to the financial report, their savings at the time were quite limited. Ultimately, if 
Mr and Mrs W had fallen behind on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI 
couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home and providing peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs W in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim, and it looks like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman