DRN-2390840
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that hes been unable to claim on a private health insurance policy he was
sold by Health Net Services Limited trading as UK Health Insurance (UKHI).  
What happened
Mr C had a policy with an insurer Ill refer to as Insurer A. In 2014 he approached his broker,
UKHI, as he was concerned that the premiums were increasing. UKHI approached another
insurer, who Ill refer to as Insurer B. They asked if Mr C could switch to Insurer B and be
covered for his underlying health condition, which is diabetes. Insurer B confirmed theyd
cover Mr C and the switch took place on the basis that Mr C would have continued personal
medical exclusions on his policy.
In 2015 Insurer B noticed that Mr Cs insurance certificate from Insurer A had a different
underwriting criteria as it had a fixed moratorium period, not continued personal medical
exclusions. So, Insurer B changed the underwriting criteria to a continued moratorium. This
meant that Mr Cs moratorium period which had started with Insurer A transferred to Insurer
B. The relevant start date for the moratorium period was November 2013.
Mr C tried to claim on his policy in 2017 but Insurer B said it would only cover the initial
investigative treatment, but not any further treatment if it turned out to be linked to his
diabetes. UKHI tried to resolve this with Insurer B as they said theyd specifically checked
whether Mr C would be covered for his diabetes during the sales process. Mr C made a
complaint about Insurer B to our service, which an investigator at our service rejected. Mr C
therefore made a complaint about UKHI.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Cs complaint in part. She
noted that UKHI had told Insurer B Mr C had type two diabetes when he has type one
diabetes. The investigator thought that UKHI should have made it clear to Mr C that he might
not be able to claim for his condition under the policy. She awarded £200 compensation for
the trouble and upset caused but thought Mr C could still benefit from the policy he had.
Mr C didnt agree as he didnt think £200 acknowledged that he was now unable to get cover
and had paid a lot of money in premiums. He explained that he was now left without the
cover he wanted and needed, for complications relating to his diabetes. UKHI accepted the
investigators findings but made the observation that theyd never really agreed with the
outcome of the original complaint about Insurer B. 
In October 2020 I issued a provisional decision which said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was receiving advice from UKHI during the sale of his policy. That means that, 
in line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, UKHI had a responsibility to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for his demands and needs. And they needed to 
provide him with clear, fair and non-misleading information.
Im intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
Pre-sale contact between UKHI and Insurer B
During the sales process UKHI contacted Insurer B and asked about cover for Mr C. 
They said:
Client with Insurer A on a (older fixed mori and has been for 3 years now of which his
diabetes is now covered (after the second year anniversary). No to switch questions
and never claimed  would you switch over his diabetes? Its type 2.
Insurer B replied and said, This switch will be absolutely fine, and All good on this 
one.
The policy was set up as a straight switch with no exclusions. UKHI attached the 
certificate from Insurer A to the email confirming the sale with Insurer B.
I think there was a failing on UKHIs part to provide correct information to Insurer B. 
Mr C had type one diabetes, which is far less common and requires daily insulin 
injections and much greater management. In contrast type two diabetes typically 
involves less medical management and may not require the use of insulin as it can 
be managed by diet and/or lifestyle changes.
I think this is important because Mr C was clearly looking to ensure he was covered 
for his diabetes if he changed insurer and because of the terms and conditions of the 
policy with Insurer B.
The terms and conditions of Insurer Bs policy
The terms of Insurer Bs policy say:
We do not cover treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if
you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about that condition during a continuous two year period after you join the 
policy.
As Mr C was taking insulin daily, and receiving medical management, I think it was 
highly likely he was never going to succeed in passing the moratorium period when 
he switched over. Thats because Mr C was receiving ongoing medical monitoring 
and medication for type one diabetes.
Ive taken into account what UKHI has said about Insurer B confirming theyd cover 
Mr C. But accepting a switch isnt the same as confirming that the consumer would 
be covered in the event of the claim. So, I think UKHI could have been clearer about 
what they were asking of Insurer B. Instead, the questions were very brief and didnt 
address the point about future claims.I think UKHI ought to have provided Insurer B with correct information about Mr Cs 
medical history. And I think they ought to have specifically queried whether Mr C 
would be covered for future claims. This was very important to Mr C as it was likely to 
be one of the main reasons hed need treatment in the longer term. Had they done so 
I think its likely Insurer B would have clarified the position in relation to future claims 
and UKHI would have been able to advise Mr C that he was unlikely to be able to 
make a successful claim for issues relating to his diabetes.
Has Mr C lost out as a result of what happened?
I havent seen the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy with Insurer A, only the 
certificate of insurance which confirms a fixed moratorium underwriting period. But it 
hasnt been disputed his diabetes would have been covered under his old policy. So, 
it seems most likely to me that, had Mr C been aware that he wouldnt be covered for 
claims relating to diabetes under the new policy, he wouldnt have switched. Thats 
because cover for diabetes was particularly important to Mr C.
The information provided by UKHI says that Mr C would have been covered for 
diabetes with Insurer A. That consistent with what theyve said about Mr C having 
never made a claim and that hed have been covered for acute flare ups with Insurer 
A.
I think that if Mr C had realised that hed lose cover for acute conditions linked to his
diabetes hes most likely to have stayed with Insurer A and retained that cover. Hes 
now left in a position where hes lost the benefit of that protection and is likely to find 
it prohibitively expensive to obtain cover for his diabetes related conditions.
Mr C was also diagnosed with kidney failure and, as a result of the declined claim by 
Insurer B, he had his treatment on the NHS including dialysis. Mr C acknowledges 
that hes unlikely to have been able to claim for dialysis on any private policy. But 
hes also been unable to claim the cash benefit for a 24 day stay in hospital under the 
new policy because of the link to his diabetes.
So, I think that this has had a significant impact on Mr C and leaves him with ongoing
uncertainty about future claims. This has caused, and continues to cause, Mr C 
anxiety and distress particularly given his health issues.
Putting things right
Mr C has had a relatively complex medical history and hes now left in a position 
where he doesnt have the benefit of cover for acute issues relating to his diabetes 
and hes not been able to fully benefit from his current policy. Hes also likely to find it 
difficult to switch to another provider and obtain that cover so it will have an ongoing 
impact on his ability to access treatment. Mr C is left uncertain about the value and 
usefulness of his current policy.
I think this whole experience has caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience at a 
time when he understandably wanted to focus on his health and wellbeing. I think 
UKHI need to pay £2000 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Most policies offer some cover if a consumer needs to access NHS treatment when 
their private policy cant offer cover. This is common practice within the private 
medical insurance industry. As Mr C was covered for acute flare ups under his previous policy I think its most likely hed have received some benefit for his stay in 
hospital as an NHS patient. In my experience thats typically around £100 cash 
benefit per night.
In view of the fact that its not been disputed that the original policy would have 
covered acute flare ups linked to Mr Cs diabetes I think its fair and reasonable that 
UKHI pay Mr C £100 per night that he was in an NHS hospital, which totals £2400 to 
acknowledge the loss of the benefits he had under his original policy.
Taking into account all of the above, I think UKHI needs to pay Mr C much more
compensation to recognise the impact of all of this on him. So I think it needs to put 
things right by:
Paying £100 per night to Mr C for the period of time he was in an NHS 
hospital (subject to Mr C providing evidence of his hospital stay)
Paying a total of £2000 compensation for the poor service Mr C received 
during the sales process which has left him unlikely to be able access private 
treatment for issues relating to his diabetes.
UKHI asked to clarify the total amount of the award and whether Mr C had been in hospital 
for an acute flare-up. Our investigator explained the intended total award was £4400. UKHI 
also asked whether I would need the evidence of Mr Cs hospital stay or whether they would 
need to verify it. The investigator confirmed that wed asked Mr C to provide this before I 
made a final decision. 
Mr C also responded to say that private kidney or pancreas transplants were around 
£17, 000 and said that Insurer A would have been willing to consider a claim. He also 
provided a letter from the hospital to say that hed been admitted for a double transplant 
between 18 September and 13 October 2019. 
So I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party disputed my provisional findings and so theres no reason for me to reach a 
different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision. 
Mr C mentioned the cost of transplant treatment in a private hospital but, as his treatment 
took place on the NHS, hes not experienced a financial loss in relation to the cost of his 
transplant. And, the compensation Ive awarded takes into account the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not being covered for treatment privately when he thought he 
would be. 
Mr C was admitted between the 18 September and 13 October for a double transplant. The 
evidence Ive been provided with suggests it is most likely to me that this was linked to his 
diabetes. 
Typically, the first and last day of admission arent counted towards the calculation of the 
hospital as they dont amount to a complete 24-hour stay in hospital. So, I think 
Mr C has fairly argued that he spent 24 days in hospital. I think its fair and reasonable that 
he receives a daily benefit of £100 per day for the period of time that he spent receiving treatment on the NHS. So, for the same reasons I outlined in my provisional decision, I think 
UKHI should pay Mr C a total of £2400 (£100 for each day he spent in hospital). 
I also remain satisfied that its fair they pay £2000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Taking into account all of the above, I think UKHI needs to pay Mr C much more
compensation to recognise the impact of all of this on him. So I think it needs to put things 
right by:
Paying £100 per night to Mr C for the period of time he was in an NHS hospital (a 
total of £2400)
Paying a total of £2000 compensation for the poor service Mr C received during the 
sales process which has left him unlikely to be able access private treatment for 
issues relating to his diabetes.
 
My final decision
Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about Health Net Services Limited trading as UK Health 
Insurance and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman