DRN-4034857
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the service provided by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) following the transfer of his stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
What happened
Mr M held an ISA with company L. In 2021 company L wrote to Mr M saying that it was 
transferring its personal investment business (including Mr Ms ISA) to Fidelity.
 
Mr M was sent information explaining the transfer to Fidelity. Among other things, this 
information explained income distributions from all funds would be accrued and then paid or 
reinvested on a monthly basis. Mr M was also informed From now on, income you have 
asked to be paid to you from your investments will now be paid into Cash within your 
Fidelity account. 
In June 2022 Fidelity confirmed From 1 July 2022 you will receive your payments on or just 
after the 1st of each month until further notice. Mr M complained to Fidelity on 10th August 
about not receiving his income payment. He also changed his income payment date to the 
17th of the month hoping that he would receive payment on the 17th August. 
Fidelity responded to Mr Ms complaint saying the next payment would be made on 17th 
September 2022 because of the 12 working days needed to implement a payment date 
change. Mr M subsequently sold his fund and withdrew all his holdings. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service for investigation adding additional complaints 
including not being able to withdraw money when it was showing as available on 17th 
August, the payment dates being restrictive, and Fidelity reinvesting payments without this 
being requested. The investigator found the payments information explained by Fidelity was 
reasonable and so didnt ask Fidelity to do anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided.
Dividend payment not made on time 
Mr M says he wasnt able to access his dividend payment on 10th August or 17th August 
even though a dividend payment had been made by his fund on 5th August. 
Ive seen the information given to Mr M before his ISA was transferred to Fidelity. This 
explained that income distributions would be accrued and paid on a monthly basis. Mr M had 
selected to have payments paid to him on or just after the 1st of each month. The fund in 
which Mr M was invested made dividend payments on the 5th of each month. So the 
dividend payment for August remained in Mr Ms cash account with Fidelity until the next 
monthly distribution of 1st September.
 
As Mr Ms August dividend had been ringfenced for payment in September, it wouldnt have 
been available to be moved or withdrawn through Mr Ms online account before this time. 
Although frustrating for Mr M, this was in line with what Mr M was told would happen when 
his ISA was transferred to Fidelity, where it was explained income distributions from all funds 
would be accrued and then paid or reinvested on a monthly basis.
Fidelity has informed this service that payment couldve been released if Fidelity had 
received notice from Mr M by secure message or phone to remove the ringfence from the 
August dividend. This wouldve then released it for payment to Mr M. I think this explanation 
couldve been clearer when Mr M first raised the issue. But overall I dont think it wouldve 
materially impacted Mr Ms investment decisions. 
This is because even with the ringfence removed, it wouldve still taken a few days to 
process Mr Ms request, and for the dividend payment to reach Mr Ms account. So although 
quicker than having to wait for the next payment date, it wouldnt have been the instant 
access payment Mr M was looking for. 
Fidelitys decision to make payments on a monthly basis, and therefore ringfence Mr Ms 
August dividend for payment in September, was in line with what Mr M was told would 
happen when his ISA was transferred to Fidelity. So I wont be asking Fidelity to do anything 
in settlement of this complaint. 
Restrictive payment dates
 
Wed generally say its fair for a business to set the frequency on when investment payments 
are made as long as an investor or their investment isnt materially impacted by a businesss 
decision.
 
Fidelity allows investors to select one of four dates in a month to receive payment - offering 
less flexibility than what Mr M was used to before his fund transferred to Fidelity. Mr M says 
these dates allow Fidelity to profit as it holds onto his cash for longer than it should. 
Mr M changed the payment date for his investment on several occasions between June and 
August 2022. I understand he did this to try to receive the August dividend payment at the 
earliest opportunity. But it didnt happen because of the 12 working days required before a 
payment date change could take effect.
 
Fidelity has provided screenshots showing the information provided when a request to 
change a payment date is made. This shows that if a request is made to receive payment 
within 12 working days, then the next payment date would automatically appear for the 
following month. So an investor would be alerted during the payment date change process 
that payment would not be made in the current month. 
Fidelity is allowed to set the number of days required to implement a payment date change. I 
appreciate the frustration felt by Mr M in not receiving his August dividend when he was 
expecting it. But overall I dont think Fidelitys business processes have been excessively 
unfair or onerous. So I wont be asking Fidelity to do anything in settlement of this complaint. Reinvesting payments 
Mr M says his dividend payments have been reinvested instead of being paid directly to him. 
Ive seen the transaction history for Mr Ms ISA since it was transferred to Fidelity. Theres 
no evidence of Mr Ms dividend payments being reinvested. Mr Ms dividends have been 
paid into Mr Ms cash account with Fidelity, and stayed in the cash account until he withdrew 
all his holdings.
The service provided was reasonable and in line with what wed expect. So I wont be asking 
Fidelity to do anything in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman