DRN-4161387
The complaint
Ms B complains about London Community Credit Union Limiteds (LCCU) handling of a 
loan.
What happened
In summary: Ms B complains that she took out a loan with LCCU under duress and didnt 
receive all of the loan funds.
In 2019, Ms B says she was reliant on a third party, who Ill refer to as G, to help her. Ms B 
says English isnt her first language and she didnt understand the UK banking system and 
relied on G to help her in setting up accounts and making arrangements.
Ms B says she was taken into an LCCU branch by G and told to sign a loan agreement. She 
says that after signing the loan agreement she realised what was happening and called 
LCCU, asking them not to proceed with the loan. However, Ms B says LCCU paid out the 
loan anyway.
Ms Bs loan statement shows that a loan for £9,000 was approved and paid out by LCCU in 
June 2019. Its unclear what happened to the proceeds of the loan. Ms B has provided a 
bank statement from another bank (who Ill refer to as D) whom she has an account with, 
which shows a credit for £3,000 which Ms B says was loan proceeds.
While the complaint has been with our service
LCCU were asked for their business file and evidence in response to the complaint raised by 
Ms B. But we didnt receive a business file until a provisional decision was issued. 
An investigator reviewed the case and initially upheld the case saying there was no evidence 
that Ms B took out the loan  as they hadnt been provided with a business file. The 
investigator asked LCCU to write off any outstanding balance, refund all the loan payments 
and pay 8% interest on that refund.
Ms B accepted the investigators recommendation, however LCCU didnt and asked for time 
to complete an investigation. When LCCU didnt respond within the agreed timeframe, the 
case was put forward for an ombudsman to review.
Having initially reviewed the case and the evidence provided by Ms B, I wasnt satisfied that 
Ms B hadnt received at least some benefit from the loan funds. Also, Ms B had raised some 
new points in recent emails to our service. Because of this, I asked the investigator to obtain 
further information from Ms B and revisit their recommendation based on the new 
information and points Ms B had raised.
Having reviewed additional bank statements provided by Ms B, as well as considering the 
new points she had raised, the investigator changed their opinion on her complaint. They 
explained to Ms B that it appeared she had received at least partial benefit from the loan 
funds. Also, that it was unclear if Ms B had an agreement with the third-party G which had 
not gone to plan, rather than Ms B taking the loan out under duress. Ms B had also 
referenced a separate bank account that she held (in addition to the one with D) and it 
appeared some of the funds mayve gone into that account. As Ms B didnt provide bank 
statements on that account, it was unclear whether loan funds had been paid into that 
account that shed used.
Ms B responded disagreeing with the investigators opinion. She sent us a police reference 
number which she says relates to the report she made against G and the fraud committed 
against her. She also raised some additional points around the amount of interest shed had 
to repay in relation to the loan.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed back to me to review.
 
I contacted LCCU and asked them for specific information to help me assess Ms Bs 
complaint. LCCU asked for an extension to the deadline Id given, which I agreed. However, 
I didnt receive the evidence they told us they would provide. I did receive further emails from 
Ms B though and directly addressed some points shes raised.
 
For clarity, these are the complaint points that Ms B raised which Ill be addressing in this 
decision:
LCCU should not have paid out the loan based on Ms Bs call to them.
The loan was for £10,000 but Ms B says she only received £6,000 - she wants 
the £4,000 refunded.
Someone went into an LCCU branch and withdrew the remaining balance of the 
loan in cash.
The loan funds paid to her bank account held at D were withdrawn as cash when 
G took Ms B to a branch and forced her to make the withdrawals.
Ms B has made all the payments on the loan including interest and has paid back 
more than £10,000.
£5,600 was taken out of her LCCU current account without her knowledge.
My provisional decision
On 15 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to reach a 
different outcome than the investigator and wanted to give both parties a chance to respond 
before I issue a final decision. Its important to note that at this point I hadnt received a 
business file or any evidence from LCCU in relation to this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Reaching an answer based on the information I have 
Under the Dispute Resolution Rules, which can be found on the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys website, an ombudsman has the power to proceed with a case where the 
business has failed to provide information requested.
DISP 3.5.14 R says: if a respondent (in this case LCCU) fails to comply with a time limit, the 
ombudsman may proceed with consideration of the case and include provision for any 
material distress or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he 
decides to make.In this case, LCCU had failed to provide any of the information that has been requested by 
our service. They had been contacted at multiple points throughout the case investigation 
including:
2 August 2022  email sent to LCCU asking them to provide their business file in 
respect of Ms Bs complaint.
9 September 2022  email sent to LCCU referring to our previous email and again 
requesting their business file.
30 September 2022  opinion issued by investigator and emailed to LCCU and Ms B, 
asking for both parties to respond.
28 October 2022  email sent to LCCU letting them know Ms B didnt accept the 
investigators opinion, so the case would be reviewed by an ombudsman. The email 
asked LCCU to provide any information they would like the ombudsman to consider.
28 October 2022  email from LCCU saying they havent finished their investigation 
into Ms Bs complaint and asking for an extension until 4 November 2022, which was 
agreed.
16 November 2022  email sent to LCCU, asking for their response to emails dated 
30 September and 28 October.
In April 2023, I wrote to LCCU clarifying the complaint points that Ms B was raising as these 
had shifted slightly from those addressed in the investigators opinion. I explained what 
information we needed from LCCU in order to consider the case and asked them to provide 
this information by 2 May 2023.
LCCU said they would provide their business file by close of business on 10 May 2023. This 
was not received.
Due to the amount of time that LCCU had been given to provide their business file and 
information relating to the complaint, Ive issued a decision based on the information we 
have on file.
I appreciate there have been extensive delays in the case while we obtained information 
from Ms B, however its important to note that Ms B is vulnerable and further evidence and 
clarification has been needed in order to get to the heart of her complaint so we can reach a 
fair outcome.
Why I cant ask LCCU to cancel the loan
Ms B has given us a bank account statement from LCCU which shows transactions on her 
current account as well as some transactions on her LCCU loan. It says that the loan Ms B 
was given was for £9,000. Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Ms 
Bs loan was for £9,000, not £10,000 as she believes. So, Ive taken that into consideration 
when looking at the rest of her complaint points.
Ms B says she took out the loan under duress and was taken into the branch to sign the 
documents by G. However, based on what Ms B has told us Im not satisfied that I can fairly 
conclude that LCCU wouldve been aware of this or that they acted unreasonably in 
proceeding with the loan. Especially as based on Ms Bs testimony, she acknowledges that 
she signed the loan agreement.
Ms B says that she called LCCU and asked them not to proceed with the loan, however its 
not clear at what point this happened and whether it was prior to the loan being paid out or after it had happened. I think its possible that after the loan was paid out and G took some 
or all of the money, that Ms B mayve contacted LCCU. However, Im not satisfied that based 
on the information I have, I can safely conclude that LCCU were asked to cancel the loan 
prior to the loan draw down.
Based on the points Ms B has raised and the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that I can 
safely say LCCU shouldnt have given Ms B the loan in the first place or paid out the funds in 
disbursement. Therefore, I cant fairly ask them to write off the loan.
However, I have gone to consider whether Ms B is entitled to any refund of the loan funds.
Should Ms B be refunded any of the loan funds?
We have evidence that some of the funds from the loan were paid to an account Ms B held 
at D. Our service considered a separate complaint set up against D about the cash Ms B 
withdrew, so I wont be commenting on that in this decision. However, I can and have 
considered the overall disbursement of the loan funds later in this decision. 
Ms B has told us about another account she holds with a second financial institution and 
says loan payments were made from that account. However, despite being asked for 
statements on that account, Ms B hasnt provided them. Based on the LCCU statement Ive 
seen, someone did make regular monthly payments to Ms Bs loan. Having considered 
everything Ms B has told us, I think its most likely that Ms B made the payments towards the 
loan, as she hasnt asked for those repayments to be refunded and has only asked for the 
loan funds which she says she cant account for - £4,000. So, Im satisfied that I dont need 
to reach any further conclusion in relation to the loan repayments.
Based on what Ms B has told us, she received £6,000 from the loan. I appreciate that she 
says this money was taken by G under duress, but its been difficult to identify exactly where 
the £6,000 was paid to as only £3,000 was evidenced by the statements Ms B gave us. This 
means we dont know how the remaining £3,000 was spent or what it was spent on.
Its possible that the money was spent by Ms B and not given to G, also its possible that the 
funds went to another account Ms B holds at another financial institution. As I cant say how 
the other £3,000 was spent, unfortunately I cant safely conclude that Ms B hasnt had the 
benefit or use of those funds. And, as Ms B acknowledges that she received these funds, I 
havent seen enough that persuades me I can fairly ask LCCU to refund them.
Ms B says she cant account for £4,000 of the loan proceeds. However, this figure was 
based on Ms B believing her loan was for £10,000. As Ive already explained I think its most 
likely the loan was for £9,000, which having dealt with the £6,000 above, only leaves £3,000 
unaccounted for.
Ms B says that these funds were withdrawn as cash from an LCCU branch by someone 
other than herself without her knowledge. Because there also isnt any evidence from LCCU 
about the loan disbursement, its impossible to know what happened to those remaining 
funds.
However, having very carefully considered the evidence we do have including Ms Bs 
testimony, the change in complaint points that Ms B has raised, and the lack of evidence 
from LCCU in relation to the loan or its disbursement  I think its fair to ask LCCU to refund 
Ms B the £3,000 which appears to be unaccounted for. I also intend to ask LCCU to pay 
interest on that refund at 8% simple calculated from the date the loan was paid out to the 
date of the refund being paid.Ms B has raised a point about having made all the loan payments and having repaid more to 
LCCU than she borrowed. But shes not disputing that she was required to pay interest on 
the loan and the interest rate on the loan is set out on the LCCU loan statement that Ms B 
gave us. So, I think its more likely than not that Ms B was aware when she took out the loan 
that she would have to pay interest on the loan. And, while Ms B may not have realised how 
much that meant she would repay in total, Im not satisfied that I can fairly say that LCCU 
have acted unreasonably in charging interest on the loan or fairly ask them to remove the 
interest charged on the loan or refund it.
The £5,600 that was removed from Ms Bs LCCU current account
Ms B says that someone withdrew £5,600 from her LCCU current account, after she made a 
cash deposit. Based on the LCCU statements she has given us, £5,000 was moved from her 
current account to her loan and used to reduce the outstanding balance on her loan  with 
the remaining £600 left in the current account until at least a year later. As Ive already made 
a finding that LCCU acted fairly in issuing the loan, Ms B has had the benefit of the £5,000 
as it reduced the amount she was asked to repay in relation to her loan. And, as I cant see 
any cash withdrawals on Ms Bs account for the amount she is disputing, I cant agree that 
someone withdrew this money or fairly ask LCCU to refund her.
An award for distress and inconvenience
Im conscious that there have been a number of delays in this case, due to us requesting 
additional information from Ms B or needing to clarify new information or points she has 
raised on her complaint. However, there has been significant delay caused by LCCU not 
providing information as requested, which wouldve helped us address a number of Ms Bs 
points at an earlier stage. Ms B is vulnerable and Im satisfied that she has experienced 
increased distress due to LCCUs failure to provide the information our service has asked 
for. I asked LCCU to pay Ms B £500 in compensation for that distress and inconvenience.
To put things right I recommended that London Community Credit Union Limited should:
Refund Ms B £3,000.
Pay interest at 8% simple on that refund from the date the loan was paid out to the 
date the refund is paid to Ms B.
Pay Ms B £500 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to the provisional decision LCCU provided their business file and explained they 
disagreed with the answer Id reached for the following reasons:
The loan of £9,000 was paid into Ms Bs LCCU account. £3,000 was transferred to 
an account in Ms Bs name held with another bank (D), £3,000 was withdrawn from 
Ms Bs LCCU account in cash withdrawals, the balance of the funds were held in   
Ms Bs LCCU account and later were repaid to the loan.
They have no record of Ms B asking them not to proceed with the loan. However, a 
system note was added after Ms B had a meeting with branch staff the day prior to 
the loan being paid out - which says:
Member has language barrier. Due to her language issue one of her friend has been 
helping her with finance related and housing issue however friend (X) been 
demanding money from her. Member has already given her £1,000 just for helping 
with completing some paperwork and now asking to lend her £3,000 from her loan of £9,000. Member has requested not to disclose any information from her account to 
her friend. I have informed member to bring her passport with her all the time.
Due to Ms Bs language barrier, a member of staff who speaks Ms Bs preferred 
language was made available to talk to her. 
The loan contract provided a grace period of 14 days in which the loan could be 
cancelled. If Ms B had asked for the loan to be cancelled it wouldve been.
Funds in Ms Bs LCCU account were used to offset the loan as no repayments were 
made, and this prevented Ms Bs credit report being negatively impacted and 
stopped her from falling into arrears on the loan.
The cash withdrawals of £3,000 were all signed for by Ms B and were only allowed 
with Ms Bs passport being present.
LCCU say based on the conversation Ms B had with their staff, they put a safety mechanism 
in place to protect Ms B. They feel it is unfair to be asked to refund Ms B for any of the loan 
funds as shes had the benefit of the money.
Ms B also disagreed with the answer Id reached and raised the following points:
She was taken advantage of and should be returned all of the money from the loan.
She only took the loan out because G used her, and if she had known that G was 
stealing from her, she wouldnt have taken the loan out.
Ms B wants £2,000 in compensation.
Ms B provided us with the contact information for the police in relation to the crime she 
reported against G, as well as contact information for her doctor in relation to her ill health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the serious ill health that Ms B has experienced. I think its 
important to emphasise that I dont doubt what Ms B has told us about people taking 
advantage of her and taking money from her.
But being a victim of crime doesnt necessarily mean that I can hold LCCU responsible or 
fairly ask them to refund all the money that Ms B says was stolen from her.
I have to take into account what information LCCU had available at the time Ms B took out 
the loan, and ultimately whether I think theyve acted reasonably and taken appropriate 
steps to try and protect Ms B based on what they knew. 
The £3,000 cash withdrawals made from Ms Bs LCCU account
Based on what Ive seen Im still satisfied that LCCU should refund Ms B the £3,000 that was 
withdrawn from her LCCU account as part of the loan funds. 
I say this because LCCU were on notice that Ms B was receiving pressure from a third party 
to give them proceeds of the loan. LCCU have put steps in place to protect Ms Bs account, 
but these steps seem more appropriate to stopping a third party from accessing Ms Bs 
account without her knowledge. Requiring a passport to be presented with any withdrawals, ensures that its Ms B who is making the withdrawals, but doesnt take any steps to ensure 
that she isnt being pressured into withdrawing the money to give to a third party. I think 
based on what Ms B had told them that LCCU shouldve asked questions to satisfy 
themselves about the purpose of the withdrawals and that Ms B wasnt making them under 
duress. 
On that basis, LCCU should refund Ms B for the three withdrawals (which total £3,000) and 
pay interest on that refund at 8% simple per year calculated from the date of the withdrawals 
until the date of settlement.
The funds transferred to an account Ms B held with another bank
While I think LCCU should refund the cash withdrawals, I think they acted reasonably in 
allowing Ms B to transfer £3,000 to her account held at D. 
The funds were being paid to an account in Ms Bs name, and I wouldnt have expected 
LCCU to take further precautionary steps before making the transfer. 
If the funds were being paid to an account held in someone elses name, I wouldve 
expected them to ask Ms B questions about the purpose of the payments and to have 
satisfied themselves as to the intended recipient of the funds. However, Im not satisfied that 
I can fairly say LCCU shouldve refused to make the transfers or intervened before 
processing the transfers to Ms Bs account held at D.
 
Also, as I explained in my provisional decision, Ms B raised a separate complaint against D 
about G forcing her to withdraw funds from the account she held with them. In this complaint 
against LCCU, I cant consider actions taken by another bank or hold LCCU liable for Ds 
actions.
 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not satisfied that I can fairly say LCCU acted 
unreasonably in allowing the transfers to Ms Bs account held with D. Therefore, I cant ask 
LCCU to refund Ms B for those funds.
The funds in Ms Bs LCCU account that were used to reduce her loan balance
Ms B remains unhappy that LCCU moved money from her LCCU account to reduce the 
balance owing on her loan. 
Ms B says that she made the monthly payments on the loan but hasnt provided any 
evidence of this. The statements shes given us only show failed loan payment attempts. 
As Ms B hasnt evidenced that she made the loan payments, I cant fairly say that LCCU 
acted unreasonably in applying funds from her account to her loan to reduce the balance 
owing.  And, as Ms B has benefitted from having a lower loan balance to repay, I cant fairly 
ask LCCU to refund her for the money moved to her loan.
The distress and inconvenience Ms B has experienced
Ive carefully considered the points Ms B has raised regarding her ill health and the danger 
she says she faced in reporting Gs crime to the police. However, in deciding what is fair 
compensation, I cant hold LCCU responsible for the fact Ms B felt she had to report 
someone to the police for committing a crime against her. Also, I cant make an award based 
on the time and energy Ms B has spent in bringing a complaint to our service.
But I can and have considered the impact of LCCUs actions based on what they knew at the 
time Ms B took out the loan and whether I think they shouldve done more to protect Ms Bs money. Also, Ive taken into consideration the impact on Ms B of LCCU failing to provide 
information to our service when requested which caused delays in our investigation of       
Ms Bs case. 
I appreciate that Ms B wants £2,000 compensation but having taken everything into account 
Im satisfied that the £500 I awarded in my provisional decision is reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right London Community Credit Union Limited should:
Refund Ms B £3,000.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on that refund from the date of the withdrawals to 
the date the refund is paid to Ms B.
Pay Ms B £500 in compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against London Community Credit Union 
Limited and require them to compensate Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman