DRN-4362094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that advice they got from a mortgage broker working for Trussle Lab 
Ltd meant they lost the mortgage they wanted. They said they werent able to fix their 
interest rate for as long as they wanted, and theyre paying a little more each month now.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a fixed interest rate mortgage deal which expired at the end of August 
2022. Some months earlier, they sought advice on remortgaging from Trussle, and their 
application for a ten-year fixed interest rate mortgage was submitted to their preferred lender 
on 20 April 2022.
Mr and Mrs P each had an outstanding loan, together these added up to a little over £3,000.
They also had some credit card debt. When they applied for this lending, they told Trussle
that the loans would be paid off, before the remortgage completed. Their preferred lender
wanted evidence that the loans had been repaid. Emails show that Mr and Mrs P had been
clear with Trussle on a number of occasions that they only planned to pay this lending off at
the end of July, before their existing deal ended.
Mr and Mrs P did then repay this lending, and sent evidence of this through to Trussle, at the
end of July. But they didnt receive an offer. They complained to the lender, and it told them
that their application had been cancelled, because they hadnt supplied the requested
evidence that their loans had been paid off before the deadline the lender had set.
The lender said it had repeatedly asked Trussle for this evidence, and told Trussle that the
application would expire on 19 July, so evidence needed to be supplied by then. The lender
actually closed the application on 22 July, and wouldnt reopen it when Trussle asked, a little
over a week later.
Mr and Mrs P told our service Trussle hadnt passed this warning on to them, and hadnt
accepted that it had been warned by the lender that the application was going to be closed.
They said they would have paid the loans off sooner if theyd been told this. They said theyd
had to pay an extra £200 a month for two months while they worked to put different lending
in place. And they said they are now paying a little more each month, on a five year fixed
interest rate deal, not the ten year fix they wanted.
Mr and Mrs P wanted Trussle to accept its mistakes, to compensate them for the extra 
interest theyd paid while waiting for their second application to complete, as well as the 
extra costs of their monthly mortgage payments, and for the loss of the extra 5 years of fixed 
rate protection.
When this case came to our service, Trussle accepted that it had been told Mr and Mrs Ps
mortgage application would be closed by their preferred lender if they didnt provide
evidence that their loans had been cleared. It said notification of this deadline had been sent
directly to a former member of staff, and it didnt have access to these emails. It accepted
that Mr and Mrs P should have been told about the deadline, and werent.
Trussle said it had repeatedly asked Mr and Mrs P to provide the requested evidence. And
Trussle said it couldnt be sure this application would ever have been successful. But it
thought that Mr and Mrs Ps expectations could have been better managed, so it wanted to
offer £250.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said the lender had been clear
that outstanding debts would need to be repaid before it would issue the mortgage offer. But
Mr and Mrs P werent given full information about the mortgage application process, and in
particular, they werent warned about the upcoming expiry of the offer. They should have
been told this.
Our investigator thought Trussle should pay £400 in compensation. But she didnt think it
should pay for Mr and Mrs P not getting the ten year fix they wanted. She said that
application was never fully considered by the lender, so she couldnt be sure Mr and Mrs P
would have received an offer.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said we couldnt be sure they wouldnt have been given the
offer they wanted either. And they thought that it was more likely that they would have been
given an offer, because theyd already been through the lenders credit searches, and theyd
got the impression from Trussle that the underwriters were otherwise happy with their
application, only waiting to see that their debt had been cleared.
Mr and Mrs P said they had the cash available and could have cleared the debt immediately
if Trussle had told them about the upcoming expiry of the application. Mr and Mrs P said
Trussle had lied about not receiving notification of this expiry, which they thought our service
should take into account. Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a
final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I think Trussle wasnt aware of the warnings about an upcoming deadline when it initially 
replied to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, because that information was sent directly to the 
email inbox of a former employee, which it couldnt access. I havent been able to 
conclude that Trussle has deliberately sought to mislead Mr and Mrs P about this.
Mr and Mrs P have argued that they should have been told about the deadline, and I 
think thats right. I also understand why theyve reached the view that this would then 
have resulted in an offer from their preferred lender, for the ten year fixed rate they 
wanted. They said theyd already been through the lenders credit searches. 
Unfortunately, that doesnt mean that their application had been fully considered by 
underwriters, and applications do fail at that stage.
I can see Trussle gave Mr and Mrs P to understand, at some points, that the 
underwriters had already considered their application, and evidence the loans were 
cleared was the only thing outstanding before an offer was issued. But, importantly, I 
havent been able to see that this was something their preferred lender told Trussle. I 
think its more likely that the underwriters hadnt fully considered their application, and 
that they were delaying doing so until evidence of the loans being cleared was supplied.
We know that Mr and Mrs P did also have credit card debts, which their preferred lender
would have had to take into account. Although the loans were paid off in late July, 
Trussles notes say Mr and Mrs Ps credit card debts had gone up by the time that they applied elsewhere, so I havent been able to see that their overall indebtedness had 
reduced. And Trussles notes also say that after their preferred lender closed their 
application, Trussle wasnt able to secure a ten year fixed rate for them elsewhere, as 
they werent able to meet affordability requirements for any ten year fixed rate deals.
I know Mr and Mrs P really wanted the security of a ten year fixed rate, so I think they 
would always have made this application to their preferred lender. They say we cant be 
sure, either way, whether this application would actually have been successful.
In these circumstances, I have to decide whats most likely to have happened. And here, 
Im sorry to have to tell Mr and Mrs P that I dont think its most likely their application 
would have been approved. In the light of the issues Ive set out above, I think, on 
balance, its more likely that their application with their preferred lender would not 
ultimately have been successful, and they would always have had to source an 
alternative elsewhere.
I think that means it was also always likely that Mr and Mrs P would have ended up with 
a slightly higher rate, and that they would have had a short period of higher interest 
payments while Trussle secured alternative lending for them.
I do think, though, that Trussle let Mr and Mrs P down by not telling them about the 
deadline for their application with their preferred lender to be considered. They lost the 
chance of this application being considered, and they have been left feeling very let 
down by their broker. So, like our investigator, I do think that Trussle should pay a little 
more compensation in this case. But, on the evidence Ive seen to date, I think that the 
payment she suggested, of £400, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So thats what I propose to award.
Trussle has already made an offer in this case. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs P 
accepted that, but Ill allow Trussle to count towards this award any payment of 
compensation it has already made to Mr and Mrs P, just in case they changed their 
minds about accepting this more recently.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P replied to say they didnt intend to offer any further evidence, so would be 
forced to accept. Trussle didnt reply.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Trussle Lab Ltd must pay Mr and Mrs P £400 in compensation. 
Trussle Lab Ltd can count towards that amount any payment it has already made to Mr and 
Mrs P for this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman