DRN-3758564
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2016, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr S was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £153. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £9,016.
Mr S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included assessing Mr S payslips for the two 
months prior to the agreement and carrying out a credit check. It said Mr S had no county 
court judgments recorded and his most recent default was 60 months prior to his application. 
It noted the repayments due under the agreement were around 9.4% of Mr S average 
monthly income.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree and said that Moneybarn hadnt carried out a full financial check and that 
he had a county court judgement in place at the time (which left his credit file in 2021). He 
said Moneybarn has continually ignored his financial status, mental health and employment 
concerns and said the car was undersold and unnecessary charges applied.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr S about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check which it has said showed no county court judgments and the most recent default as 
being 60 months before the application and received two months payslips. Based on Mr S 
payslips the repayments under the agreement were less than 10% of his monthly income 
and so I consider these checks were proportionate. However, just because I think it carried 
out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, 
Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. The payslips showed Mr S 
to have an average monthly income of just over £1,600. As the repayments due under the 
agreement were around £153, I dont think this raised concerns that meant further checks 
were required. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed but has said that there 
were no county court judgements, and the most recent default was 60 months prior to the 
application. Mr S has said this isnt correct and that there was a county court judgment 
recorded on his credit file at the time which was removed in early 2021. Mr S has been 
asked to provide evidence of the county court judgement so this can be considered but 
unfortunately this hasnt been provided. If there was evidence of a county court judgment 
within the months leading up to the agreement this doesnt necessarily mean that the 
agreement shouldnt have been provided but it would mean that I would have expected 
further checks to have taken place.
As I dont have evidence of the county court judgment and based on the information 
received I do not find that further checks were required, I do not find I can say it was 
unreasonable that Moneybarn relied on the information it received through its checks. As this 
didnt raised concerns about the affordability of the agreement, I do not find I have sufficient 
evidence to say that Moneybarn was irresponsible in its lending to Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman