DRN-4293740
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative, says Oplo PL Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr H took out a loan for £10,000 over 54 months on 5 July 2019. The monthly repayments 
were £323.19 and the total repayable was £17,452.26. 
Mr H says proper checks were not completed and his already poor financial situation has 
been made worse. Oplo says its checks were thorough and showed Mr H could sustainably 
afford the loan. He has made all his repayments on time.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He said Oplo did not carry out proportionate 
checks and had it done so it would have realised Mr H could not afford this loan.
Oplo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said, in summary, the loan was for 
debt consolidation would leave Mr H in a better position each month. Nothing in its checks 
suggested more information was needed. A default on his credit file was historic. He has not 
contacted it to say he is struggling to repay the loan at any time. It also referenced two other 
similar, and therefore it says relevant, decisions where we have not upheld the complaints.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here. 
The rules and regulations when Oplo lent to Mr H required it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability 
check. The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Oplo had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for   
Mr H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. 
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Oplo did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr H. 
So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions: 
- did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Oplo make a fair lending decision? 
- did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
I can see Oplo asked for certain information from Mr H before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of his income and a copy of a payslip to check his declaration. It checked his 
employer. It estimated his living costs using national statistics. It also checked his credit file 
to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan which Mr H said was to repay all his existing cards and one loan, as well 
as some of his partners debts. From these checks combined Oplo concluded the loan was 
affordable for Mr H and would leave him with £286.31 of monthly disposable income. 
Given the value and term of the loan, and the initial results, I dont think these checks were 
proportionate. It could see he had opened five new credit accounts in the last six months and 
made 24 minimum payments in the last 12 months. He was over his card limits with his total 
credit utilisation at 109%. So there was evidence of financial pressure.  I note the loan was 
for debt consolidation but even taking that into account Mr H would need to spend around 
34% of his income each month on his credit commitments  and he was on a relatively low 
income.
Oplo counters this concern with two main arguments. It says its affordability assessment 
showed Mr H would still have around £286 disposable income each month which was a 
reasonable amount. But it was required to do more than check the pounds and pence 
affordability for Mr H. It needed to be sure he would be able to make his repayments 
sustainably over the term of the loan  so without borrowing to repay, or suffering any other 
adverse financial consequences. And I cant see it got those reassurances from its checks. 
Oplos second defence is that Mr H would in fact have had more disposable income each 
month as he was using this loan to settle other debts. But again it needed to consider the full 
impact of its lending on Mr H. He was taking on £17,452.26 of debt to settle £7,547 of 
existing debt. Looking at the credit card providers I dont think it was fair for Oplo to assume 
this would be financially beneficially to Mr H. They were mainstream providers and likely to 
be charging a lower or comparable interest rate. So in the round I think Oplo needed to carry 
out a fuller financial review to ensure its loan would not cause any adverse financial 
consequences for Mr H.I have therefore looked at Mr Hs bank statements from the months prior to his application. I 
am not saying Oplo had to do exactly this but it is a reliable way for me to understand what 
better checks would most likely have shown Oplo. They show that Mr H did not have the 
disposable income it had calculated, nor would he after his debt consolidation. And they 
show he was already reliant on significant transfers in from another account he held to 
manage his outgoings. It follows had Oplo carried out proportionate checks I think it would 
not, as a responsible lender, have decided to lend.
Oplo has referenced findings from other decisions but I can only comment here on the merits 
of this case. Every irresponsible lending decision will vary based on the individual 
circumstances of each case.
I have seen no evidence Oplo treated Mr H unfairly in some other way.
Putting things right
It is fair that Mr H repay the capital he borrowed as he has had the benefit of that money. But 
he should not be charged interest and fees on a loan that was lent irresponsibly. 
So Oplo should: 
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr H has paid to date. 
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Oplo should reduce the outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1. 
3. If, after step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Oplo should ensure that it 
isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. If Mr H is struggling to make his 
repayments Oplo should work with him to agree an affordable repayment plan. 
4. But if step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to 
Mr H and 8% simple interest* should be added to the surplus. 
5. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr H credit file once he has repaid any 
outstanding capital balance. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Oplo to take off tax from this interest. If it does, Oplo must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. Oplo PL Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman