DRN-4260768
The complaint
Ms Y complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim under her 
HomeCare policy.
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Ms Y, a landlord, has a HomeCare policy which is underwritten by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas). 
On 21 March 2023, she made a claim on the policy because there was a problem 
with the boiler in her tenants accommodation - leaving them without hot water. 
An engineer attended the same day and ordered a new part. The engineer didnt 
attend the following day to fit the part  but neither Ms Y nor her tenants were 
informed. 
British Gas subsequently arranged for another engineer to attend but due to an 
administration error, the second engineer hadnt been provided with the new part, 
and so wasnt able to complete the repair. 
The job was rescheduled for 27 March. The original engineer fitted the new part and 
the problem with the boiler was fixed. 
Ms Y complained to British Gas saying it had caused avoidable delays which left her 
tenants without hot water for longer than needed. She said engineer appointments 
were missed. Shed spent a lot of time chasing the matter - and as she lives 
overseas this caused her greater inconvenience and stress. 
British Gas acknowledged its service had fallen short and paid £100 compensation. 
Ms Y didnt consider the compensation to fairly reflect the difficulties she and her 
tenants experienced and so, brought a complaint to this Service. Our Investigator 
upheld it, saying British Gas needed to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
British Gas agreed but Ms Y remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and Ill explain why. 
As an insurer, British Gas has a duty to resolve claims promptly. Here, its not in dispute that 
Ms Ys claim could have been progressed quicker had the second engineer been given the 
replacement part. 
Its also not in dispute that Ms Y has been inconvenienced because of British Gas inaction. 
Understandably, having to chase things up when appointments werent adhered to was 
frustrating and inconvenient for Ms Y. And I appreciate that as Ms Y resides overseas this 
made things more difficult. Its certainly not unreasonable for Ms Y to have expected British 
Gas to let her or her tenants know if engineers werent going to be able to attend scheduled 
appointments. 
I must, however, keep in mind that the inconvenience Ms Y experienced was limited to a 
short period of less than one week  some of which couldnt be avoided owing to British Gas 
needing to order a replacement part. Furthermore, as a landlord, there is always going to be 
a degree of inconvenience when having to deal with issues which arise from a rental 
property. 
I understand Ms Y wants me to consider the impact on her tenants, but quite simply, I cant. 
Im only able to consider the impact on her as the eligible complainant. However, I have kept 
in mind that shes had the worry of her tenants potentially contesting whether they are 
required to pay the full amount of rent due to there not being hot water during the time of the 
claim. 
With all this in mind, I am however, satisfied £200 compensation in total is fair and in line 
with awards this Service makes in respect of payments for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Ms Y £200 compensation in total. It can deduct £100 from this amount if it has already 
paid this. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms Y accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman