DRN-4075880
The complaint
Mr S complains he was mis-sold a motor trade policy by Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd.
Reference to Abbey includes its agents. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr S took out a motor trade policy, underwritten by an insurer Ill call X, but sold by 
Abbey in an advised sale.
When one of Mr Ss cars was stolen, he made a claim to X. But X declined it. It said Mr S 
wasnt covered for any loss at, or within 100 meters of, his home address.
Mr S complained to Abbey about this. He said the policy was mis-sold to him. He said his 
work address and his home address were the same. He thinks the policy wasnt suitable for 
his needs.
Abbey didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it was clear what was covered in all the 
documentation it sent him following the sale. It said it was Mr Ss responsibility to make sure 
the policy suited his needs.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. She thought that because the policy 
was purchased in an advised sale, Abbey had to recommend a policy that was suitable for 
Mr Ss needs. And this policy wasnt. She recommended Abbey act as if were X and assess 
Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy  without relying on the exclusion 
for cover from Mr Ss home address. She also recommended Abbey pay Mr S £100 for the 
inconvenience this matter caused him.
Mr S agreed with our investigators assessment. Abbey didnt and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. It says Mr S, as a commercial client had a responsibility to check 
what he was covered for. It said its not an insurer, so it cant assess the claim. And its said 
even if it could, too long has passed since the claim, that it couldnt gather the evidence it 
needed to assess any claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold as an advised sale. That means Abbey had a duty to make sure 
it asked relevant questions to make sure any policy it recommended met Mr Ss 
needs.
This policy was sold over the telephone, and theres no record of that call. So, I cant 
be sure what was asked by Abbey or how Mr S answered anything he was asked.
But, from what Ive seen, both in terms of Mr Ss complaint, and emails between 
Abbey and X (or its agents), Mr S was told hed be insured for vehicles kept at his 
home address.
I appreciate Abbeys point that Mr S had a responsibility to check his documents. And 
the documents are reasonably clear. But this doesnt absolve Abbey of its 
responsibilities as set out above.
From the evidence, Im not persuaded the policy recommended to Mr S by Abbey 
suited his needs. I think its more likely than not that Abbey didnt ask the right 
questions, didnt understand Mr Ss requirements fully, or simply recommended a 
product that wasnt suitable. Either way, I find this policy was mis-sold.
Had the policy not been mis-sold, I think it likely Mr S would have had a policy that 
covered him for theft from his home address. There are policies on the market that 
offer this cover, so I see no good reason why Mr S wouldnt have been able to take 
one out.
Therefore, had the policy not been mis-sold, Mr S would have had cover for his claim 
for the stolen car. So, Abbey should act as if it were Mr Ss insurer X. It should 
assess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. And, if theres no valid 
reason to decline or reduce the claim, Abbey should pay it, in full.
I understand Abbeys concerns around the time since the claim was made affect its 
ability to assess this claim. But this should not prejudice Mr S. So, if Abbey is unable 
to effectively assess the claim, it should simply pay it, in full.
Should the claim be paid, Abbey should add 8% simple interest to the payment. 
Interest should be calculated from 1 month after the claim was made, to the date 
Abbey Insurance pays Mr S.
Having a policy mis-sold, and that leading to a declined claim would be inconvenient 
for Mr S, so Abbey should also pay him £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require Abbey Insurance Brokers 
Ltd to:
Assess Mr Ss theft claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, without 
relying on the endorsement excluding cover from his home address.
Should there be no valid reason in those terms to decline or reduce the claim, pay 
the claim in full.
Equally, if, due to the passing of time, it cannot fairly assess the claim, it should pay 
it, in full.
8% simple interest should be added onto any claim payment. Interest should be 
calculated from one month after the claim was made, to the date it pays Mr S.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman