DRN-3167217
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card application and later increased the credit limit. 
  
What happened
Miss G applied for a credit card with Aqua in April 2020. In her application, Miss G said she 
was a tenant, homemaker and had an income of £9,000 a year. Miss G also said there was 
other household income of £12,000. Aqua carried out a credit search and found Miss G had 
two defaults on her credit file that were about two and a half years old. Aquas application 
data says it used a figure of £800 for her other credit. Aqua approved a credit card with a 
£250 limit. 
In January 2021 Aqua increased Miss Gs credit limit to £1,000. Aqua says the increase took 
Miss Gs account history, application data and credit file into account and was approved in 
line with its lending criteria. 
Miss G complained that Aqua had lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit card. Aqua 
didnt agree and didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. Miss G referred her case to this service 
and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld the complaint as they thought the decision 
to increase Miss Gs credit limit was irresponsible. Aqua asked to appeal so Miss Gs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Aqua needed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss G could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete but lenders are required to 
consider the above points when considering whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Aqua says it took Miss Gs credit file and personal circumstances into account 
when it approved her credit card. Aqua also says the £250 credit limit was modest and that it 
completed proportionate and reasonable checks before approving the application. Aquas 
application data said Miss G only owed £800 elsewhere and I agree that, the checks Aqua 
completed were proportionate to the credit card it went on to approve. I havent found that 
Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved Miss Gs application. 
Aqua increased the credit limit to £1,000 in January 2021. In the original application data 
Aqua sent us it says Miss G had £800 of unsecured debt with other lenders. But by the time 
Aqua increased the credit limit in January 2021 its credit file data shows she had unsecured 
debt of around £5,000, an increase of £4,200 in 10 months. I think an increase in unsecured 
debt of that nature shouldve caused Aqua to think carefully before putting Miss Gs credit 
limit up. I also note that Miss Gs balance exceeded the credit limit in October 2020. I dont 
agree with Aqua that the checks it completed when the credit card was approved remained 
proportionate when it increased the credit limit. I think Aqua shouldve done more.
Theres a range of information Aqua couldve looked at like bank statements or evidence of 
Miss Gs income and outgoings, for example. If Aqua had carried out more comprehensive 
checks I think it wouldve found Miss G was increasingly reliant on credit and unable to 
sustainably repay an increased credit card balance. I agree with the investigator that Aqua 
lent irresponsibly when it increased Miss Gs credit limit to £1,000. 
As I think Aqua lent irresponsibly, Im going to tell it to refund all interest, fees and charges 
applied to credit card from January 2021. Going forward, Aqua shouldnt apply interest 
above £250. I also dont agree its fair for Aqua to report adverse information about a debt 
that was lent irresponsibly, so Im also going to tell it to amend Miss Gs credit file. 
The investigator recommended Aqua pay Miss G £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss G. Ive seen evidence Miss G suffers with health conditions that the 
additional stress of irresponsible lending most likely impacted. In Miss Gs case, I agree £50 
for the trouble and upset caused to her is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to settle 
as follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied to balances over £250 from January 2021 
- Going forward, Aqua should only charge interest on balances up to £250
- Cease reporting all adverse information on Miss Gs credit file in relation to balances 
over £250
- Pay Miss G £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman