DRN-2773843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about delays and poor service in relation to a mortgage 
application made through Countrywide Principal Services Limited trading as Countrywide 
Mortgage Services.
To settle the complaint they would like Countrywide to pay compensation of £10,000.
What happened
The timeline of events has been set out in detail in correspondence between the parties and 
our investigator, so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Instead I will summarise what 
happened in my own words.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs M decided to buy a new-build property and consulted Countrywide about 
a mortgage. An agreement in principle was obtained on 23 July 2019 from a lender I will call 
VM. Initially this was for an 90% loan to value (LTV) mortgage but as the property was a 
new- build, the maximum LTV was 85% and so on 5 August 2019 a new product was 
selected. 
The application was proceeding, and as VM was Mr and Mrs Ms existing lender, they also 
considered porting their current mortgage product onto the new property, with a top-up loan. 
On 14 August 2019 VM explained it had made a mistake and the product chosen for a top-
up wasnt available for a new-build. Another product was chosen.
The application was proceeding but on 11 September 2019 VM said it wasnt able to lend 
the full amount required. Countrywide put forward another lender (CB) which Mr and Mrs M 
agreed.
From Countrywides contemporaneous notes, I can see that Countrywide chased CB for the 
mortgage offer, and that CB kept reassuring Countrywide that the mortgage offer was 
imminent. CB told Countrywide it had sent out the mortgage offer on 4 October 2019, to the 
solicitors as well as to Countrywide. But  unknown to Countrywide  CB was using an old 
email address. (CB later explained that its system didnt allow it to update a brokers email 
address in its records and so it pulled through the email address of a consultant who was no 
longer with Countrywide.) 
So although Countrywide hadnt been sent a copy of the offer, the solicitors had it. But the 
solicitors told Countrywide on 16 October 2019 that Mr and Mrs M hadnt returned the signed 
contract and so exchange couldnt take place until it had been returned. Also on 16 October 
2019 Countrywide was told by the estate agents that the seller wanted more time to decide 
what to do. 
On 11 November 2019 Mr and Mrs M decided to buy a different property, still with the 
mortgage from CB. Due to issues between CB and the surveyors instructed on the valuation, 
there was a delay in the valuation being carried out. The valuation was eventually carried out 
on 19 December 2019. On 23 December 2019 Countrywide emailed CB with details of its 
broker fee.
By 4 January 2020 Mr and Mrs M were frustrated at the lack of progress and contacted CB, 
which told them that documents were still awaited from Countrywide, but they hadnt been 
able to contact the broker. This was relayed to Countrywide, which called CB. It was 
confirmed that the only outstanding information was the broker fee, which Countrywide had 
already sent.
It wasnt until 6 January 2020 that CB finally admitted that its systems pulled through old 
email details from a previous application, as a result of which CB was emailing a dead 
email address and not adding emails from Countrywide to its file. 
The mortgage offer was issued by CB on 8 January 2020.
On 6 April 2020 Mr and Mrs M complained to Countrywide, saying they were in the process 
of putting together a case against Countrywide for compensation. They held Countrywide 
responsible for the original property purchase falling through and said theyd incurred huge 
additional expense. Mr and Mrs M said they were looking at a figure of around £10,000, due 
to what they said was gross negligence on the part of Countrywide.
Countrywide didnt uphold the complaint, setting out in its final response letter the full 
timeline of events. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept what Countrywide had said, and brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at it. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. He thought that any material delays were as a result of the 
actions of third parties and so he didnt think Countrywide was at fault.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They have 
reiterated all their points about poor customer service and delays but have provided no new 
evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the same time as they were buying their new property, Mr and Mrs M were arranging a 
let-to-buy (LTB) re-mortgage as theyd decided not to sell their existing home. This was done 
through another division of Countrywide which dealt with unregulated mortgage products. I 
will explain here that as the LTB product is unregulated, I am not looking at the arrangement 
of that mortgage because its not covered by our rules and was in any event arranged by a 
different part of Countrywides business from the brokers who arranged the residential 
mortgage. 
Ive reviewed the timeline of events, and in particular the notes from Countrywides computer 
system. Those notes are contemporaneous  that is, they were made at the time of the 
events  and so Im satisfied I can rely on them as an accurate record of what happened.
In relation to the first purchase, I see that the first application to VM was submitted on 
5 August 2019, when it was identified that the product selected needed an 85% LTV. So 
although Countrywide should have identified this at the start, there was minimal delay 
involved in switching to a 90% LTV product.  VM said on 11 September 2019 that it wouldnt lend the full amount, and the application was 
switched to CB (although Mr and Mrs M asked on 30 September 2019 if they could still stay 
with VM  which wasnt possible as VM wouldnt lend them the full amount they needed). 
The decision on how much to lend was down to VM, and outside of Countrywides control. 
The mortgage offer was issued by CB on 7 October 2019, less than a month after the 
application was submitted. This is within the usual 6-8 weeks it generally takes for a 
mortgage offer to be issued.
But by 16 October 2019 the solicitors were still unable to exchange contracts, telling 
Countrywide they hadnt had the signed contract back from Mr and Mrs M. When 
Countrywide chased Mr and Mrs M about this, they said theyd only received the contract on 
16 October 2019. It seems the solicitors were trying to suggest the delay in exchanging was 
due to Mr and Mrs M, whereas it appears the solicitors may have been responsible for the 
delay in sending out the contract. 
I cant see any reason why, once the mortgage offer was received, contracts couldnt have 
been exchanged on 8 October 2019. That is something Mr and Mrs M will need to take up 
with their solicitors, because the delay in the solicitors sending out the contract appears to 
have resulted in the seller deciding to weigh up her options.
I can full appreciate that this was upsetting and stressful for Mr and Mrs M, but Im satisfied 
that Countrywide had done all it needed to do to ensure the mortgage offer had been issued 
by 7 October 2019. 
In relation to the second application, CB was told of the new property on 11 November 2019 
and the mortgage offer was issued on 7 January 2020. Taking into account the Christmas 
and New Year breaks, this isnt an unreasonable timescale. 
Im satisfied there were delays in this application  but the timeline of events persuades me 
that that they were as a result of errors on the part of CB and the surveyors who were 
instructed on the valuation, not Countrywide. Im also satisfied that it was not Countrywides 
fault that CBs system wouldnt allow it to update the brokers email address. Countrywide 
wasnt aware of this until CB explained it on 6 January 2020.
I can also see that Countrywide was being given different information by CB from the 
information CB was giving to Mr and Mrs M in relation to timescales and the valuation. 
Moving house is an extremely stressful experience, and I know things didnt go as smoothly 
as Mr and Mrs M had hoped they would. But overall, after considering the timeline of events, 
Im not persuaded Countrywide is responsible for either the first purchase not going ahead, 
or for the length of time taken for the mortgage offer on the second purchase to be issued.
This means that Im satisfied Countrywide hasnt done anything wrong and so Im not 
ordering it to pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman