DRN-3832917
The complaint
Ms M complains how she was treated by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) when she 
attended a branch.
What happened
Ms M says she attended a RBS branch in February 2022 to make a payment to her builder. 
She says she was treated badly by RBS staff and asked intrusive questions. She also says 
her mental health capacity was questioned, and RBS contacted her builder. Ms M complains 
about how her complaint was then dealt with and says RBS discriminated against her. She 
would like an apology and compensation.
RBS has apologised for how it dealt with the complaint but says it was entitled to ask 
security questions to protect its and Ms Ms money. It says it is sorry for how Ms M felt after 
the branch visit and says that wasnt its intention. RBS has offered to speak to Ms M and 
apologise for how she felt. It says Ms M was attempting to make a £6,000 payment.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt think RBS had acted unfairly. 
The investigator explained we couldnt look at complaints about complaint handling and that 
it would be for a court to decide if the Equality Act 2010 had been breached.
Ms M doesnt accept that view and says its her right not to be interrogated about her money. 
She says she wasnt under stress that day as RBS suggest and says it abused its power.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms M will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly she feels about this 
complaint. I can see that the investigator has explained that it would be for a court to decide 
if the Equality Act 2010 has been breached but we look at a complaint and decide if a 
business has acted fairly and reasonably. I also make clear that complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity and so I cant fairly comment on Ms Ms complaint about how her 
complaint response was sent.
The main issue here is what took place in the RBS branch in February 2022. I am sure Ms M 
appreciates that it can often be difficult to conclude what took place in these sorts of 
complaints and when both sides provide conflicting versions of events.
I am sure Ms M also appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building 
societies and that they must have measures in place to protect its and its customers money. 
That means on occasions, as here, legitimate customers and legitimate transactions can be 
questioned about attempted payments. I accept that this was Ms Ms money and she of 
course is free to spent her money as she sees appropriate. But I also think that RBS must 
satisfy itself that a transaction is genuine.
So, I dont think RBS acted unfairly by asking Ms M about the transaction as I think it was a 
relatively large payment. I appreciate that Ms M found the questions unnecessary and 
intrusive, but I find RBS was entitled to ask those questions. And I have not seen any 
evidence that RBS acted unfairly or intentionally acted inappropriately in the questions it 
asked or the actions it took. I make clear that I have no doubt that Ms M was concerned 
about the questions and about what took place, but I cant fairly conclude that RBSs 
approach was designed to cause distress or offence.
Overall, I accept Ms M was concerned about the events in branch and accept it was her 
money. But I hope Ms M appreciates that RBS also has duties to ensure customers are not 
taken advantage of. And that RBS would not have known about Ms Ms background and the 
steps she had already taken to protect her money such as making an earlier payment by 
credit card. I can see that RBS has fairly offered to speak to Ms M and apologise for the 
areas of the complaint it accepts it could have dealt with more appropriately. It follows that I 
cant fairly order compensation or ask RBS to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman