DRN-3339195
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after he made a claim on 
his legal expenses insurance policy in October 2020.
What happened
Mr H had a legal expenses policy with UKI between October 2012 and October 2016. A 
previous claim for assistance with a dispute with his former employer was turned down 
because a barrister advised it didnt have reasonable prospects of success (as required 
by the policy terms). Mr H was advised if he wanted to dispute that hed need to obtain a 
supportive legal opinion of his own.
In October 2020 Mr H contacted UKI and said he wanted to make a new claim. The claim 
related to him being prevented from applying for other employment by his former employer. 
UKI asked for more information on the claim (including papers submitted to the 
Employment Tribunal) to help it decide whether this was covered by the policy and whether 
it was a separate matter to the claim it had already considered.
Discussions continued over what information was required; Mr H didnt think he needed 
to provide papers submitted to the ET but did provide more information on the issues 
which formed part of his new claim. However, UKI didnt think this was sufficient to show 
whether there was a new claim here  and if there was whether it was covered by Mr Hs 
policy. It issued a final response to the complaint Mr H had made in January 2021
Mr H contacted UKI again in May 2021 and subsequently provided a more detailed 
chronology of events. UKI provided a further final response at the end of June. In that it 
said Mr H still hadnt provided the ET1 and ET3 forms relating to this claim which would 
enable it to easily establish whether the new claim was linked to the previous one. It 
referenced the policy terms as they related to providing information.
And it said if Mr H was right to say that the incidents relating to the claim he was now 
making happened after counsels advice was received on the previous one theyd fall 
outside of the period covered by his policy. Alternatively, if they were linked to the previous 
claim Mr H would need to provide a supportive legal opinion before cover could be 
reinstated for that.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. She thought it was fair UKI had 
asked Mr H to provide information to show whether this was a new claim or was linked to 
the previous one.
She considered whether UKI should nevertheless have asked the barrister who assessed 
the previous claim to look at any new information Mr H had provided. However, she 
thought given the time that had passed since the original assessment was done, it was fair 
UKI had said Mr H would need to obtain a supportive legal opinion in order for this to claim 
to be reconsidered. In the absence of that, or the further information about the claim UKI 
had asked for, she thought it acted reasonably in not progressing matters further.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the previous claim had been against his former employer but 
the new claim was against another organisation (which Ill refer to as M). Hed found out 
new information about both claims in 2021 which he said supported his view that hed 
been subjected to unlawful acts by both organisations. And he made comments on his 
previous claim against his former employer and the reasons why he didnt feel it was 
reasonable for UKI to have relied on the barristers opinion that had been provided about 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
I appreciate Mr H remains concerned about the legal opinion that was issued on his 
previous claim. However, that isnt something Im considering in this decision. UKI issued a 
final response on the complaint Mr H made about that in November 2017. If Mr H had 
wanted us to consider his concerns hed need to have referred that complaint to us within 
six months of the date of that letter (or show there were exceptional reasons that prevented 
him from doing so). If he believes there are then thats something that would need to be 
considered as part of a separate complaint.
Im considering in this decision what UKI did after Mr H got in touch with it in October 2020 
to make a new claim. Mr H argues at that point he provided further information about his 
previous claim (against his former employer) and wanted to make a new claim against M. 
And he says UKI didnt consider this properly.
Ive reviewed the information Mr H provided to UKI. I dont agree he did ask it to consider a 
complaint against M. For example when he contacted it in October 2020 he said the claim 
is an Employment Tribunal Claim filed against a former Employer: [name of former 
employer]. Thats reflected in the subsequent correspondence he had with UKI about this. 
I appreciate in some of the documentation he then provided there is reference to M but I 
think it was reasonable of UKI to regard that as being provided in support of the claim 
against the former employer rather than being a separate claim in its own right.
In any event its not clear to me this is something that would be covered by his policy. In 
particular while the policy does cover a dispute with your current or former employer at an 
Employment Tribunal I note at a hearing in May 2021 a judge said it wasnt in dispute that 
Mr H had never been employed by M. Nevertheless, if Mr H does think this is something 
that his policy should cover, hell need to pursue that as a separate claim with UKI.
Turning to the claim against his former employer I agree with Mr H that in the first instance 
it is for UKI to obtain a legal assessment as to whether a claim has prospects of success or 
not. But in this case that assessment was previously obtained and was unsupportive of 
this. So I dont think it was unreasonable of UKI to say that unless Mr H could provide a 
supportive legal assessment of his own it wouldnt reinstate funding for this claim.
I appreciate when Mr H contacted UKI in October 2020 he did provide what he believed to 
be new information and argued this supported the previous claim hed made. But that 
wasnt a legal opinion. And I dont think it was unreasonable in any case of UKI to ask Mr H 
for further information given the policy terms say you must send us any information that 
we ask for that is reasonable and relevant to your claim.In this case I think UKI reasonably wanted to establish whether the issues Mr H was 
raising were a new claim (and if so whether they fell within the period covered by his 
policy). Or whether they related to the previous claim hed made. I think asking for a 
chronology and copies of the paperwork hed submitted to the Employment Tribunal was 
relevant to that.
And while I appreciate some months later Mr H did provide a more detailed chronology as I 
understand hes never provided the requested ET1 or ET3 forms relating to this claim. I 
also note the chronology he did provide appears to have been incomplete as it didnt 
contain information UKI subsequently found about claims Mr H had made.
Mr H says he doesnt think that UKI needs to see the ET forms as it isnt assessing the 
underlying legal case. I agree it isnt doing that. But UKI does need to establish whether 
this is a claim thats covered by the policy and whether its separate to the issues its 
already considered. I think the ET forms are relevant to that and I dont think it was 
unreasonable of UKI to conclude it couldnt progress matters without this information.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman