DRN-1910558
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that advice they received from Santander UK Plc in September 
2006 each to invest £27,000 in a Guaranteed Income and Capital Bond (GICB) and £3,000 
in a Guaranteed Income and Capital Bond ISA (ISA) was unsuitable for them.
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC) which says:
Mrs T received a large inheritance shortly beforehand and it was inappropriate to 
invest some of this money so soon after receiving it;
they had never been in receipt of such funds previously and should have been given 
more time to become accustomed to their new financial situation;
Mr T and Mrs T were advised to invest £60,000, which exposed too much of their 
available capital to risk. They had plans to spend some of their funds on holidays, a 
new car and as gifts to their children;
they were both self-employed at the time with a varied income. Mr T planned to retire 
at age 65 in two years time and Mrs T was already drawing her state pension. It 
wasnt appropriate for them to invest for the first time in risk-based products over the 
medium to long term, given their financial position would change in the meantime.
 
Whats happened
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020 in which I proposed that Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint should be upheld for the reasons I gave in that decision. 
I invited both Santander and Mr and Mr T to respond to my provisional findings, a copy of 
which is attached a forms part of this decision.
Briefly, I thought the advice Mr T and Mrs T received didnt take appropriate account of their 
financial circumstances at the time and their likely position two years later once Mr T had 
retired. While half of the recommended investments provided a guaranteed return of 5.3 per 
cent per annum simple over five years (which was taxable under the GICB and tax-free 
under the ISA), the other half gave a return after five years based on 50 per cent of the 
growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index, which could range from a nil to unlimited.
Given Mr T and Mrs T enjoyed a healthy disposable income of almost £800 per month in 
2006, I didnt appreciate why they would each need to supplement their income by £795 per 
annum from the two investments until Mr T retired two years later in 2008, when his income 
would reduce significantly.  
I felt that, in meantime, they ought to have invested the whole of their savings (including the 
£60,000 they invested) in deposit-based accounts that protected their capital and 
guaranteed them a return before their joint income would reduce on Mr Ts retirement. Bank 
of England base rate at that time was 4.75 per cent per annum. I didnt think it was advisable 
for them in 2006 to have placed £30,000 at risk for five years of eventually receiving a nil 
return. And, once Mr T retired, they could have received a return before tax at least equal to 
Bank of England base rate, which was still 4.5 per cent by then, on the whole of their capital. By comparison, for three more years since 2008, although half of the GICB and ISA gave 
them 5.3 per cent gross (equivalent to the return they would be guaranteed from a fixed rate 
bond), the other half gave them a return that could be nil. But, as this half of their investment 
only gave them 50 per cent of the growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index anyway, the actual 
growth in the Index needed to be 41 per cent over five years to provide a return equivalent to 
that offered by a fixed rate bond. 
So, on balance, I didnt think Mr T and Mrs T would have been prepared to take the risk that 
the Index needed to grow by the twice the rate of return they would have been guaranteed 
from fixed rate bonds while accepting that the Index could produce a nil return. Given its 
likely that an equivalent return could be achieved only in very favourable investment 
conditions, Im inclined to believe that this risk was more than low risk investors would be 
prepared to take.
Mr T and Mrs Ts CMC accepted my provisional decision.
However, Santander disagreed with my provisional view and said that:
Mr T and Mrs Ts personal and financial circumstances in September 2006 tell us 
that Mrs T had received a large inheritance and they enjoyed a healthy disposable 
income of £800, based on a joint monthly income of £1,650 and outgoings of £850, 
much of which was the monthly repayment of £442 to a car loan;
this meant they spent just over £400 on food, council tax, water, gas, electric, 
insurance, petrol, leisure, telephones, car running costs, etc., which seems extremely 
low;
Mrs T was already drawing her basic state pension and Mr T was two years from his 
state pension age;
they wanted to gift £20,000 of their newly-acquired savings of £126,000 to their 
children and a further £20,000 in a fixed rate bond. Nonetheless, the advice they 
received to invest £60,000 still left them £46,000 on deposit;
they didnt want to repay their car loan and wished to take a low degree of risk with 
some of these savings;
in 2006, they wanted both a fixed income for the next 5 years and the potential for 
some capital growth. They also wanted to put another £20,000 into a short term fixed 
rate bond, evidencing that fixed rate bonds were also discussed. It could be that they 
wanted extra income for luxuries and for holidays. In any event, they held their 
investments for the full five years and have never claimed they suffered an income 
shortfall as a result of these investments;
two years after investing in the GICB, Mr T retired and, in September 2008, they 
repaid the outstanding balance on their car loan of £12,000, and so reduced their 
monthly outgoings by £442;
by then, both Mr T and Mrs T had become non-taxpayers and Mr T qualified for 
Aged Allowance of £9,030 per annum;
so, by August 2008, their total income from state pensions and Mr Ts personal 
pension was almost £900 per month, which was more than enough to cover their 
outgoings. In  other words, they had no income deficit in retirement;
Mr T retired in August 2008, and not in October 2008 and, as they were non-
taxpayers by then, they didnt need £13,000 per annum to cover their outgoings, as I 
assumed in my provisional decision. Accordingly, they didnt need their savings to 
generate an additional income of £2,500 per annum, they were not heavily reliant on 
their savings for income and could afford to take a small degree of risk with the return 
these savings might achieve;
besides, without Mr Ts unexpected inheritance, they knew their state and other 
pensions needed to cover their monthly outgoings on Mr Ts retirement by manging their finances accordingly. On repaying their car loan in September 2008, their 
pension incomes alone gave them a net disposable income of almost £500 per 
month. In addition, the GICB and ISA were providing further income of almost £1,600 
per annum. So, even though their monthly outgoings in 2006 seem to be suspiciously 
low, their income in retirement was still likely to be enough to cover their regular 
expenditure;
the investment itself is a structured product and appropriate for investors willing to 
take a small degree of risk in that they are guaranteed a return of capital, with the 
potential for growth based on the performance of the stock market. The GICB and 
ISA gave Mr T and Mrs T a guaranteed income and potential stock market growth 
without risking their original capital;
as the funds from Mrs Ts inheritance were not crucial in securing vital additional 
income for Mr T and Mrs T in retirement, they could afford to take this degree of risk.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has quite rightly pointed out that, when Mr T came to retire in August 2008, both 
Mr T and Mrs T were likely to be non-taxpayers (more obviously Mr T, who would receive 
Aged Allowance which increased his personal allowance from £6,035 to £9,030 per 
annum). Mrs T may have been liable for some tax if interest paid to her from savings took 
her pension income above £6,035 per annum.
I understand Santanders point that, without Mrs Ts inheritance, Mr T and Mrs T would have 
needed to manage on their incomes alone in retirement.
But my provisional decision looked to assess the advice Mr T and Mrs T received in 
September 2006 based on their personal and financial circumstances at that time and also 
on what the adviser could reasonably have anticipated their financial position would be when 
Mr T came to retire in August 2008. (I quoted a date of October 2008 simply because 
alternative advice in September 2006 might have been to place their capital in a two-year 
fixed rate bond, whereupon Mr T and Mrs T could have considered how they might have 
invested their total savings once Mr Ts income, in particular, had reduced on his retirement.)
Mr T and Mrs Ts financial position and objectives before they received advice in September 
2006 were, as follows:
Mrs T earned around £6,000 per annum from her basic state pension and some part-
time work. Mr T received £20,000 from self-employed earnings and a private pension 
of £1,200 per annum. He was due to retire in two years time when he would receive 
basic state pension. They were basic rate taxpayers;
theyd repaid their mortgage but a large car loan cost them £442 per month. They 
didnt wish to repay this loan at the time. Even so, as their other outgoings amounted 
to £410, their income of £1,650 gave them a disposable income of almost £800 per 
month;
they held joint savings on deposit of £126,000, most of which came from a recent 
inheritance Mrs T received. Theyd never utilised their ISA allowances;
Mr T and Mrs T said they wished to gift £10,000 to each of their two children and 
planned to use some of Mrs Ts inheritance to take holidays and make further gifts to 
their children in the future. Otherwise, they were looking at placing another £20,000 
in a fixed rate bond for capital growth, leaving them £86,000 on deposit initially.
Although the adviser recorded that Mr T and Mrs T wished to receive a fixed annual income from their remaining savings, its difficult to appreciate why they would want to generate 
further income at that time given they already enjoyed a disposable income of £800 per 
month. 
In my view, Mr T and Mrs T needed to maximise the capital value of their savings for the 
next two years until Mr T retired when his income would reduce from £20,000 to around 
£6,000 per annum and Mrs Ts income from £6,000 to £4,700 per annum.
I do accept the adviser could expect Mr T and Mrs T to pay little, or no, income tax on their 
pensions and on interest from savings when Mr T retired in August 2008. This does change 
my assumptions about the gross income Mr T and Mrs T were likely to need to meet their 
outgoings in two years time and interest they could obtain from savings. 
I also assumed their regular outgoings in 2006 would remain at £850 per month two years 
later. But I think it could have been reasonably anticipated that these expenses - utility bills, 
car running costs, socialising, meals etc. - would naturally escalate in retirement from such a 
low base of £410 per month and theyd also need more income for holidays they planned to 
take. 
I also accept that, by August 2008, it could have been envisaged that Mr T and Mrs T would 
pay no income tax on their pensions, and that this would have given them a total annual 
income of around £10,500, or £875 per month. It wasnt possible to say in September 2006 
whether this would, or wouldnt, have been sufficient to cover their essential outgoings in two 
years time. The odds are that Mr T and Mrs T would need more income by then for this 
purpose.
Also, given Mr T qualified for Aged Allowance, he could have received interest from savings 
free of tax. Mrs T may have been expected to pay income tax on some of her savings. 
Mr T and Mrs T confirmed in 2006 that they had no wish to repay the outstanding balance of 
their car loan at the time. But, while it could have been their intention in 2006 to repay it in 
September 2008, thereby reducing their monthly outgoings by £442, I cant say with any 
certainty that the advice they received in 2006 reasonably assumed they would have done 
so, or that the advice can be justified because they did repay this loan two years later. The 
advice itself may have contributed to their decision to repay the loan in 2008 because their 
reduced savings gave them less interest (income) than they might have anticipated.
In September 2006, Mr T and Mrs T held £126,000 on deposit. They planned to gift 
£20,000 of this to their two children (with further gifts in the future, if affordable) and to place 
a further £20,000 in a fixed rate bond, leaving a maximum sum of £86,000 available for 
investment. 
Mr T and Mrs T were advised to invest £60,000 - £30,000 in the GICB and ISA which paid a 
guaranteed income of 5.3 per cent per annum they didnt appear to need at the time and 
the other £30,000 which was tied-up for five years with the risk that it could produce a nil 
return in October 2011. This left them £26,000 for emergencies and further gifts to their 
children, plus the value of the fixed rate bond whenever it matured. 
But I understand they repaid the outstanding balance of the car loan of £12,000, leaving 
them available savings of £14,000.
So, the advice they received in September 2006 gave them an annual income of 5.3 per 
cent on £30,000 (£1,590) Mr T and Mrs T didnt need for two years. This did supplement 
their pension income from August 2008 which alone may, or may not, have been expected 
to cover their monthly outgoings. In the meantime, the other £30,000 they invested in the GICB and ISA was tied-up for 
another three years with the risk that it may not give them a return at all. And, as the 
investment calculated the return based on 50 per cent (and not 100 per cent) of the growth 
in the FTSE 100 Share Index, the Index needed to have shown above-average growth after 
five years for this part of the investment to produce a return that matched the return
Mr T and Mrs T could have been guaranteed from a high interest-earning deposit account 
they would have been receiving tax-free since August 2008. 
So, notwithstanding that I didnt take account of Mr T and Mrs T becoming non-taxpayers in 
August 2008, my view remains that the advice they received in September 2006 wasnt 
appropriate based on their financial position at the time and what their position was likely to 
be two years later.
As I found in my provisional decision, I think Mr T and Mrs T would have been better advised 
to maximise the capital value of their available savings for two years until Mr T retired while 
he continued to earn an income and their disposable income was almost £800 per month. A 
two-year fixed rate bond could have given them the same guaranteed return on the whole of 
their investment, and not just on 50 per cent of it, and all of these savings was available to 
them in August 2008 when they needed to supplement their pensions.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T 
and Mrs T as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr T and Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr T and Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
What should Santander do? 
To compensate Mr T and Mrs T fairly, Santander must:
Compare the performance of Mr T and Mrs Ts investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
 
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. 
Santander should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
GICB and 
ISA (Mr T - matured average rate 
from fixed rate date of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end £30,000) bonds date to the date 
of settlement
GICB and 
ISA (Mrs T - 
£30,000)maturedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Santander totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T and Mrs T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital;
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr T and 
Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr T and Mrs T would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the amount calculated as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
 
 
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that advice they received from Santander UK Plc in September 
2006 each to invest £27,000 in a Guaranteed Income and Capital Bond (GICB) and £3,000 
in a Guaranteed Income and Capital Bond ISA (ISA) was unsuitable for them.
Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC) which says:
Mrs T received a large inheritance shortly beforehand and it was inappropriate to 
invest some of this money so soon after receiving it;
they had never been in receipt of such funds previously and should have been given 
more time to become accustomed to their new financial situation;
Mr T and Mrs T were advised to invest £60,000, which exposed too much of their 
available capital to risk. They had plans to spend some of their funds for holidays, a 
new car and as gifts to their children;
they were both self-employed at the time with a varied income. Mr T planned to retire 
at age 65 in two years time and Mrs T was already drawing her state pension. It 
wasnt appropriate for them to invest for the first time in risk-based products over the 
medium to long term, given their financial position would change in the meantime.
What happened? 
In September 2006, Mr T and Mrs T were in their early 60s and were self-employed. 
Mrs T earned around £6,000 per annum from her basic state pension and some part-time 
work. Mr T received approximately £20,000 from self-employed earnings and a modest 
private pension. He was due to retire in two years time, when his earnings would stop and 
he would receive basic state pension. 
Mr T and Mrs T were basic rate taxpayers, theyd repaid their mortgage and were funding a 
large car loan. Even so, their monthly income of £1,650 gave them a disposable income of 
almost £800 at the time. 
Although Mrs T held capital sums on deposit of almost £123,000 in her name (most of which 
was a lump sum shed recently inherited), they regarded these sums as jointly-owned. 
Otherwise, Mr T had savings of just over £3,000. Theyd never utilised their ISA allowances.
The adviser recorded that they wished to gift £10,000 to each of their two children and 
planned to use some of Mrs Ts inheritance to take holidays and make further gifts to their 
children in the future. Otherwise, they were looking to make capital growth and a fixed 
annual income from their remaining savings. 
While Mr T and Mrs T dont appear to have any previous investment experience, their 
attitude to risk was recorded as low.Mr T and Mrs T were each advised to invest £27,000 and £3,000 in a GICB and an ISA 
respectively. This represented around 48 per cent of their total savings, leaving £66,000 for 
future planned expenditure and as an emergency fund. The sums invested received interest 
at 3.5 per cent gross from the date of their application until the end of the offer period in mid-
October 2006. 
The GICB and ISA paid an annual income of 5.3 per cent gross for five years on half of each 
investment. The remaining half received 50 per cent of any growth in the FTSE 100 Share 
Index at the end of five years. Growth in the Index was measured using the reading at the 
start date in October 2006 and the average level of the Index in the last 12 months, based 
on readings in each month. 
Both types of return from the GICB are taxed at Mr T and Mrs Ts highest rate, whereas the 
returns from the ISA are free of tax.
As it was, in October 2011, other than the five years guaranteed income from the GICB, Mr 
T and Mrs T received back the capital sums they invested five years earlier.
In response to their complaint, Santander thought the advice to invest in both products was 
suitable for Mr T and Mrs T. They still held over £65,000 on deposit and a monthly 
disposable income of £800. It, therefore, felt that Mr T and Mrs T could afford to invest 
£60,000 for a guaranteed income and the potential for greater returns from the growth in the 
FTSE 100 Share Index than they would receive by leaving this money on deposit. Given 
their original capital was guaranteed, the only risk was the possibility that they might receive 
back their original investment after five years.
One of our investigators considered Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint and agreed with Santander 
that, on balance, the advice they received was suitable. Briefly, he said that:
while Mr T and Mrs T may not have held the funds for very long before investing, 
Santander didnt do anything wrong by advising them to do so. Its down to the 
consumers to decide whether theyre content to proceed with the recommendation or 
take more time to think about what to do with their money. Also, they received a 
Cooling-off Notice which gave them additional time to change their minds if they felt 
uncomfortable;
he didnt think Mr T and Mrs T invested too much of their savings either  they were 
left with over £65,000 on deposit and a monthly surplus income of £800. So, they 
could still build up capital savings outside these investments, with sufficient funds for 
emergencies;
while Mr T and Mrs T were both self-employed, they didnt anticipate their income 
would change, and even if it did, they had a large capital sum in reserve;
the funds they would require to take holidays and make further gifts to their children 
were still available. But there was no mention of buying new cars;
the GICB also provided a regular income for five years and, while Mr T was planning 
to retire in two years time, this didnt make the advice to invest over five years 
unsuitable. Neither did the investments appear to cause them any financial difficulties 
during that five-year period. Had they been left without enough available capital 
during this period, its likely they wouldve complained sooner;
these products didnt present an investment risk - their capital was guaranteed as 
long as they held the investment for the full five years. Additionally, they received a 
total annual income of approximately £1,600 with the prospect of unlimited capital 
growth on the other half of the investment;
Santander could not have recommended products that posed less of a risk, unless 
they left their money on deposit. Even then, its possible that their total investment of 
£60,000 may not have produced a more favourable return given the global financial crash of 2008 led to Bank of England base rate falling from 4.75 per cent in 
September 2006 to 0.50 per cent by March 2009.
In response, Mr T and Mrs Ts CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view and said that:
at the time the advice was given, Mr T and Mrs T were only two years from their 
planned retirement  an event of considerable financial consequence both known 
and unknown;
they were first-time investors and the advice they received gave them no financial 
flexibility in two years time;
the global financial crisis of 2008 was not a factor in the advice and could not have 
been anticipated by the adviser.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have to admit that this complaint is finely 
balanced.
In my view, the advice needs to be judged against Mr T and Mrs Ts financial position in 
September 2006 and also what the Santander adviser could have reasonably known their 
financial position was likely to be in two years time, when Mr T was due to retire.
I appreciate the CMCs point that the adviser had committed Mr T and Mrs T to investments 
that needed to be held for five years (and with no guarantee of any capital growth on half of 
the money) when their income position was likely to change in two years time. And they 
ought to have invested these capital sums for a return that was guaranteed over the next two 
years before Mr Ts income, in particular, would change significantly and they would then 
need their savings to produce an income.
As such, it was essential in September 2006 that Mr T and Mrs T made maximum use of 
their capital savings as they would be relying on this money to supplement their income in 
two years time. I think Mr T and Mrs T could ill-afford for this money to have given them 
little, or no, return. Both the GICB and the ISA carried that real risk on half of their total 
investment.
In September 2006, their monthly earnings gave them a disposable income of almost £800, 
with savings of £126,000 held on deposit. At that time, Bank of England base rate was 4.75 
per cent per annum, which could have given them a return of almost £6,000 per annum. So, 
its also difficult to understand why Mr T and Mrs T needed to invest £15,000 for further 
income of almost £1,600 (£800 each) at that time.     
Mr T and Mrs T had earmarked an unspecified amount of this capital for holidays and as 
gifts to their two children. So, its not possible to be precise about the amount of growth or 
income their remaining savings could have provided in addition to their disposable income.
Nevertheless, it ought to have been evident to the adviser in September 2006 that Mr T and 
Mrs Ts income position would change in two years time - Mrs T would be reliant on basic 
state pension (which had risen to £4,716 per annum by then) and Mr T likewise, plus his 
private pension of £100 per month (or £1,200 per annum). 
While the adviser wouldnt know precisely how their monthly outgoings of £850 in September 
2006 were likely to change in two years time, Mr T and Mrs T would have needed a total income of around £13,000 in October 2008 to cover these outgoings. By then, their total 
pension income would be just over £10,500, leaving them an income shortfall of £2,500 per 
annum. Although the GICB and ISA had guaranteed them an income of almost £1,600 per 
annum, this wasnt needed in September 2006. 
By October 2008, total savings of approximately £70,000 would have been enough to meet 
their remaining income shortfall of £2,500 (given Bank of England base rate in October 2008 
was 4.50 per cent gross per annum).
Santander says that, while it didnt market a five year fixed rate bond in September 2006, it 
may have offered one over two years although it cant confirm the rate of interest it gave. 
Typically at that time, returns from fixed rate interest-bearing bonds of five years were on 
average paying at least Bank of England base rate in September 2006 of 4.75 per cent per 
annum. This is equivalent to a return of 20.5 per cent (net of basic rate tax) after five years if 
growth was reinvested. 
The GICB gave Mr T and Mrs T a guaranteed income of 5.3 per cent (or 20.67 per cent over 
five years because income is paid each year simple) but only on £15,000 of their investment. 
The other half of the GICB and ISA would give a return of between nil and 50 per cent (not 
100 per cent) of any growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index.
So, the GICB and ISA needed to have shown growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index of 41 per 
cent - the equivalent of almost nine per cent per annum - over five years to produce a return 
they would have been guaranteed from fixed rate bonds. Mr T and Mrs T would not have 
known how favourable investment conditions needed to be to achieve this level of growth in 
the Index. The investments also carried a real risk of a nil return over the whole term.
So, I must decide whether Mr T and Mrs T would still have accepted this advice if the adviser 
had quoted the net return a fixed rate bond could guarantee after two or five years. In other 
words, would they have been prepared to take the risk that the FTSE 100 Share Index 
needed to grow by nine per cent per annum on average to give them a maturity value 
greater than they were guaranteed from fixed rate bonds that might have been on offer at 
the time?
Even then, it would still be difficult for Mr T and Mrs T to assess the odds of both the GICB 
and ISA achieving a return of more than 41 per cent to decide if that was a degree of risk 
they were prepared to take.
On balance, given how their joint income would reduce by October 2008, Mr T and Mrs T 
would have been heavily reliant on their capital savings producing a return for their 
retirement. And I dont think they would have agreed to an investment that might give them 
no return, or that otherwise needed the FTSE 100 Share Index to increase by 41 per cent 
over five years to give them a return of at least 20.5 per cent they were guaranteed from a 
fixed rate bond on that half of their investment.
In my view, Mr T and Mrs Ts prospective financial position on retirement in October 2008 
wasnt suited to the high risk presented by the GICB and the ISA that could give them a nil 
return, or a return that was less than they were guaranteed from a fixed rate bond.
Mr T and Mrs T had no previous investment experience. But their attitude to risk was 
recorded as low, which, given they were being recommended the GICB and ISA, must have 
related to the risk to the return they might receive from these two investments. These 
investments could have given them a return of 20.5 per cent, but only in very favourable 
investment conditions. They could also have given Mr T and Mrs T a nil return.By contrast, a fixed rate bond could have guaranteed them a net return of at least 20.5 per 
cent after five years.
So, the risk Mr T and Mrs T were asked to take was the need for the two investments to 
provide a return of twice the rate of return they would have been guaranteed from fixed rate 
bonds while accepting that they could produce a nil return. Given its likely that this return 
could be achieved only in very favourable investment conditions, Im inclined to believe that 
this risk was more than a low risk investor would be prepared to take.
All things considered, I think Mr T and Mrs T should have invested their savings in a product 
that provided no risk to their capital and a guaranteed return for two years until Mr T retired. 
They should not have taken any sort of risk with their money in September 2006. Neither did 
they need the income of 5.3 per cent per annum guaranteed on half of their capital while Mr 
T continued to earn an income and their disposable income was almost £800 per month. A 
two-year fixed rate bond could have given them the same guaranteed return on the whole of 
their investment, and not just on half of it. 
Thereafter, its reasonable for me to assume Mr T and Mrs T needed their savings to provide 
an income of around £2,500 per annum to supplement their pensions. Given Bank of 
England base rate in October 2008 was still 4.50 per cent per annum gross, they would have 
needed to hold approximately £70,000 of their total savings (which might have increased to 
around £130,000 since September 2006) in fixed rate deposits to meet this need.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T 
and Mrs T as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr T and Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr T and Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
What should Santander do? 
To compensate Mr T and Mrs T fairly, Santander must:
Compare the performance of Mr T and Mrs Ts investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. Santander should also pay 
interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
GICB and 
ISA (Mr T - 
£30,000)maturedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlementGICB and 
ISA (Mrs T - 
£30,000)maturedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
 
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Santander totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T and Mrs T wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr T and 
Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr T and Mrs T would 
have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
 
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman