DRN-2365870
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK plc hasnt credited his account with cash he 
deposited at one of its cash machines.
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Barclays. He says he went to one of its cash machines and 
tried to make a deposit. He says he put £900 into the machine but it rejected the deposit and 
returned £140 to him. He says the machine retained £760 and he wasnt given a receipt.
He contacted Barclays about this. He says it told him it had reviewed the CCTV footage and 
said it could see hed put a lot of money into the cash machine. But Barclays only offered to 
return £40 to him. Mr K declined this offer and complained to Barclays about what had 
happened.
Barclays investigated his complaint. It acknowledged that its cash machine had broken at 
the time when Mr K made the deposit. But it said it had been able to balance the machine 
and there was no evidence that Mr K had tried to deposit as much as hed said. It said its 
engineer had recovered £40 which had been caught in the mechanism. So, it offered to give 
this to Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree. He complained to our service. He also told our service he thought one of 
the reasons for how Barclays had treated him was because of his nationality and because 
English wasnt his first language.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that Barclays had provided persuasive 
evidence that only £40 had been found in the machine by the engineer. It had shown that the 
machine had balanced. In the circumstances there was insufficient evidence to support what 
Mr K had said. 
Our investigator thought Mr K had experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result 
of what had happened when the machine had broken. So, he said Barclays should pay Mr K 
£50 by way of compensation for this. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied. He said he thought it was possible someone who had touched or 
opened the cash machine to fix the problem had taken the money. Our investigator 
considered what Mr K said, but he didnt change his view.
Barclays accepted what our investigator said. It said it was willing to pay Mr K £50 by way of 
compensation. And it confirmed it would give Mr K £40 found in its machine. It said any its 
out of hours engineers couldnt access cash in the machine and there was CCTV monitoring 
of all activity at the machine.
Because Mr K didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that the cash machine broke when Mr K was attempting to deposit cash. 
Mr K says he deposited £900 but the machine rejected £140 of this and retained the rest. 
Barclays says its engineer only found £40 caught in the mechanism and, apart from that, its 
cash machine balanced.
There is a disagreement about how much Mr K deposited at the cash machine. Where there 
is a dispute of this nature I have to decide, based on the evidence that I have, whats more 
likely to have happened.
When Mr K first reported this matter to Barclays he said hed attempted to deposit £1000. 
When Barclays told him it had only found £40, he said he would check this again. 
Barclays also viewed the CCTV footage. It told Mr K it could see he took notes from a larger 
bundle of cash and fed those notes into the machine. But it said not all of the bundle of notes 
was fed into the machine. It could also see that notes were rejected by the machine and 
returned to Mr K. Mr K confirmed to Barclays that he did have a larger amount of cash in the 
bundle at the time and hed only tried to deposit some of it.
After hed checked the position, he came back to Barclays and said it was £900, and not 
£1000, he tried to deposit. 
So, Mr K has confirmed he had a large amount of cash with him at the time. He 
acknowledges he only tried to lodge some of it. And, although there is a big difference 
between what he says he tried to deposit and what Barclays found in the machine, I think its 
possible he may have been mistaken about how much of the cash in the bundle he tried to 
deposit. 
Ive also considered what Barclays has told us about the cash machine. It says it stopped 
accepting deposits immediately after Mr K tried to make his deposit. So, its clear the 
machine broke at that point in time. It did continue to permit withdrawals. But Barclays has 
confirmed that withdrawals are taken from a separate part of the machine and there is no 
intermingling of money thats been deposited. 
Barclays has also confirmed that its cash machine balanced. It says its engineer found £40 
(2 x £20 notes) which had been stuck in the mechanism. Mr K has confirmed it was £20 
notes he was trying to deposit.  Barclays has also told us that the engineer opened the 
machine and removed these notes in the presence of one of its staff. So, Im satisfied that 
only £40 was found in the mechanism.
There had been a previous engineer who attended the machine after it broke down. But 
Barclays has confirmed that that engineer wasnt able to access any cash in the machine. 
And, its confirmed all activity at the machine is monitored by CCTV. So, Im not persuaded 
that that engineer had access to cash in the machine or that he removed it.
When he referred his complaint to our service Mr K suggested that Barclays may have 
treated him in the way that it has done because of his nationality and the fact that English is 
not his first language. But having considered everything here, whilst I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr K, there isnt sufficient evidence to support what hes said about the 
amount he deposited. And theres no evidence to indicate that Barclays treated him any 
differently to how it would treat any of its other customers in the same position. Barclays has 
offered to give Mr K the £40 it found in the machine. I think thats fair and reasonable.Ive also thought about what our investigator said about paying Mr K compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I agree with our investigator that £50 is fair and reasonable for 
what happened. Barclays has confirmed it is willing to pay Mr K this amount. I dont require it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc. 
Barclays Bank UK plc has already agreed to pay Mr K £40 (the amount found in its cash 
machine) and, in line with what our investigator said, a further £50 for distress and 
inconvenience. I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK plc should pay Mr K £90 (in total).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman