DRN-3566246
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with how Oplo CF Ltd treated her when she fell into arrears on her hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In June 2017 Miss A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Oplo. The agreement was for £18,053, with 59 monthly payments of £296, and a final 
payment of £471, including an option to purchase fee.  
In December 2018 Miss A informed Oplo she had been ill and this led to a reduction in her 
income. She also told them her father was in hospital. She said that she had agreed a 
payment plan with Oplo after she told them about this change in income. Shes unhappy as 
she said theyre now asking her for a larger monthly payment and threatened to repossess 
the car if she didnt make the higher payments. 
Miss A said that she had been impacted by the Covid 19 pandemic and Oplo hadnt treated 
her fairly at this time. She said she lost her job in October 2020. She said Oplo only gave her 
a payment deferral for two months, not the six months deferral as stated in the guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). She said they then threatened to take 
possession of the car. 
Miss A said she started a new job in December 2020. She said Oplo insisted she pay £350 
for that month.  
Miss A said her father passed away in January 2021. She said at the same time Oplo told 
her she had to pay the full settlement figure, or they would repossess the car. She said she 
persuaded them to accept £350 a month towards the agreement. She said she asked for a 
settlement figure but the amount was different to the one shed been given previously.
Shes unhappy that shed been meeting the agreed amount of £350 but Oplo were now 
adding other charges and fees. She said she wanted to continue paying £350 towards the 
agreement, and for no further charges or interest to be applied.
Miss A is also unhappy that court charges have been added to her arrears. She said she 
was told court action was taken in February 2019 but she said she had no knowledge of this 
taking place.
Oplo said Miss A first missed a payment in January 2018 when she cancelled the direct 
debit mandate. They said they contacted Miss A, confirmed the cause of the missed 
payment was temporary, and the direct debit was restarted from February 2018. This was for 
an increased amount of £300 in order to clear the January 2018 arrears.
Oplo said that the direct debit was cancelled in December 2018 when Miss A told them she 
was unable to work due to ill health. They said an arrangement was made for Miss A to pay 
£300 in January 2019, and £400 a month for February 2019, March 2019, and April 2019.
They said Miss A only paid £150 in January 2019 as shed told them she received less pay 
as shed had to take time off work. They said Miss A contacted them in February 2019 to let 
them know she couldnt afford the previous arrangement. They asked Miss A to complete an 
Income and expenditure form so that they could agree an arrangement that was affordable 
to her. They said she told them she had been off work with stress
They said an income and expenditure check was completed in February 2019 and a monthly 
payment of £371 was agreed for the period March 2019 to August 2019.
They said Miss A informed them in June 2019 she couldnt afford her monthly payment as 
shed had to pay for repairs to the car. They said Miss A agreed to pay £371 from June 
2019. They said Miss A then reported that there had been fraud on her account so she 
couldnt make the payment on time. They said she paid £185 towards the agreement. The 
July 2019 direct debit also failed. Miss A paid a reduced amount of £150.
Miss A made payments by card from July 2019 to September 2019. At this time they said the 
arrears had amounted to £1,841. They said they considered taking return of goods action as 
Miss A had consistently failed to meet the contractual agreed monthly payment. They said 
Miss A had failed to discuss affordability or consider an arrangement so this, along with her 
consistently failing to pay the agreed monthly payment, led them to conclude the agreement 
was unaffordable. At this point they transferred the collection activity to a third party 
representative. 
They said Miss A cleared the arrears on her account in November 2019 and the monthly 
payment reverted to the contractual amount of £296.
Oplo said Miss A told them in May 2020 her income had been affected by the Covid 19 
pandemic. They said they granted her a payment holiday for May 2020, June 2020, and July 
2020, with the normal contractual payments due from August 2020. They said they hadnt 
agreed a payment holiday in October 2020. Instead theyd instructed their third party to stop 
collection activity. 
They said the different lower settlement figure theyd provided her included the payment of 
£350 shed made towards the agreement.
In April 2021, Oplo confirmed it had started court proceedings. This was because Miss A had 
stopped making the payments agreed under the Suspended Return of Goods Order from 
December 2020.
Miss A was unhappy and brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that he didnt think Oplo had acted unfairly. 
Miss A disagreed. She felt that our investigator had not taken account of the stress cause by 
Oplos actions at the same time as her father was terminally ill.
Because Miss A didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered and read everything theyve said and sent 
us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the 
crux of Miss As complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. That is whether or 
not Oplo treated Miss A fairly and reasonably when she was in arrears and defaulted on her 
agreement.
Payment arrangements
Miss A contacted Oplo about her financial circumstances in December 2018. She said her 
income had reduced. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), say that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance would include a number of things 
including allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time. So, based on this, Ive considered whether or not Oplo provided 
Miss A with forbearance and due consideration.
I can see that Oplo agreed a payment plan with Miss A at this time. I note from the payment 
history on the account that Miss A made irregular payments towards the account between 
December 2018 and November 2019. Miss A said that she had been absent from work due 
to ill health and this had affected her income. But I see that arrears on the account built up 
over this time. 
Miss A has made efforts to manage her account. I note that she cleared the outstanding 
arrears in November 2019. However, I see that payments to the account after that date were 
still irregular, and arrears started to accumulate again.
So I think it was reasonable for Oplo to pass the account to a third party debt collector to 
manage the collection activity.
I can see that Oplo reviewed Miss As income and expenditure during this time to ensure the 
agreement, and any payment arrangements, were affordable. So Im satisfied that at Oplo 
treated Miss A fairly, and in line with the expectations in the FCA Handbook.
The Covid payment deferral request
In May 2020 Miss A informed Oplo that her income had been impacted by the Covid 
pandemic and she requested a payment deferral.  Oplo agreed this request, granting a 
payment deferral for three months. Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to do so  
although they werent required to do so. I say this because the guidance issued by the FCA 
in April 2020 was for consumers whose finances had been impacted solely by the pandemic. 
Miss A had by this time accumulated several months arrears, so the guidance didnt apply in 
her circumstances.The settlement figure
In their final response letter to Miss A, Oplo explained why a different settlement figure had 
been provided. They said this was because a payment that had been made to the third party 
debt collector hadnt cleared. Im satisfied thats a reasonable explanation, and that Miss A 
was provided with the correct figure. The settlement figure does change as further payments 
are made, and each settlement figure will come with a deadline.
Ending the agreement 
Miss A says that she fully intends to make all the payments due under the agreement, but 
doesnt want to pay the additional charges that have been added to the account.
The amount of the arrears, including any fees and charges, and how they were charged is 
for the third party to address, and Miss A has been encouraged to raise a complaint directly 
with them. If shes not satisfied with their response then she can bring that complaint to this 
service. But Im not looking at their actions under this complaint.
Miss A has defaulted on the agreement. Its reasonable for a business to take steps to end 
the agreement when payments are missed. And the legislation and the agreement allow for 
this to happen. 
The agreement she entered into was for a period of five years. The terms of the agreement 
say that she must pay the instalments in full and on time (clause 2), and if she doesnt they 
may add defaults charges (clause 10) and end the agreement (clause 11). 
In doing so they must follow rules set by the FCA. 
Miss A was still in arrears in January 2021, and had been in arrears since December 2018. 
So I think it was reasonable for Oplo to conclude that Miss A would be unable to afford 
sufficient payments to repay the agreement in a reasonable time.
I understand this was a difficult time personally for Miss A. She thinks it wasnt fair or 
reasonable for them to threaten to repossess the car when her father was terminally ill. But 
Oplo had made Miss A aware that they would take steps to end the agreement and 
repossess the car in phone calls and formal notices, since February 2019 if not earlier. 
As Ive explained above Id expect Oplo to consider her current financial situation and treat 
her with appropriate forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan to clear any 
arrears outstanding after the agreement is terminated. I think this is fair and wont be asking 
them to do anymore
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss As complaint about Oplo CF Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman