DRN-3624354
The complaint
Ms W complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) when 
she transferred the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Ms W was a deferred member of an OPS in which shed accrued benefits from a previous 
employer. In 2010 her previous employer was exploring options regarding the OPS  in 
particular the DB section of the plan which it hoped to reduce the size of as this was in a 
funding deficit. One of the things it did to look to achieve this was to make a limited time offer 
to some members of an enhanced transfer value  meaning itd offer an additional payment, 
on top of the transfer value of their benefits, if they were interested in transferring. As part of 
the offer Ms Ws former employer would meet the cost of independent advice to members 
about a potential transfer. This advice was provided by JLT.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Ms Ws benefits within the DB scheme was 
£7,705. Her employer offered an enhanced CETV of £8,871.45 if she was interested in 
transferring her benefits. Alternatively, Ms W could still opt to transfer but move the original 
transfer value and take part of the enhancement, £1,034.09, as cash. Or she could remain a 
deferred member of the DB scheme.
Ms W agreed to receive advice from JLT. On 25 April 2010 she completed and signed a fact-
find - providing JLT with information about her circumstances and objectives. This said she 
was 44, employed, in good health and single with no dependents. It was noted that she 
owned her own home, with approximately £90,000 in equity. And Ms W indicated she 
intended to potentially downsize to help fund her retirement.
In addition to the DB scheme benefits being considered, Ms W recorded that she held 
benefits in two other pensions. A personal pension which was worth approximately £11,000 
with no contributions being made towards it. And a group personal pension, set up by her 
employer, worth just under £1,400 with regular contribution of £40 per month being made.
It was noted that Ms W expected to retire at age 65 and was unlikely to take pension 
benefits prior to this. The fact-find also said that she expected to need an income of £3,000 
per year in retirement. In terms of her priorities when it came to a pension arrangement, 
Ms W indicated that death benefits and moving to a pension under her control were not 
important to her. But the ability to take tax-free cash (TFC) at retirement and a pension that 
increased in retirement to provide some protection against inflation were of interest to her.
Ms W noted that she was interested in taking the enhancement offered by her former 
employer as a cash sum, noting in her own words that it was only a small amount. 
There were also questions in the fact-find about her attitude to risk, with pre-prepared 
answers for her to select. Ms W ticked to say that she considered her attitude to risk to be 
cautious. 
JLT instructed a transfer value analysis (TVAS) which was completed on 26 May 2010. This 
included the calculation of the level of growth required of a new pension each year to allow 
Ms W to be able to purchase pension benefits at retirement equivalent to those that she was 
giving up (the critical yield). To match the benefits shed be due at 65 under the DB 
scheme, assuming she took TFC and a reduced pension, the critical yield was 6.7% - if she 
invested the entire CETV, including the enhancement. If she took the enhancement as cash 
and invested the original CETV, the critical yield was 7.4%. 
On 1 June 2010, JLT sent Ms W a report outlining its recommendation (often referred to as a 
suitability report). This said that its advice was limited to whether to transfer her benefits 
from her DB scheme or remain a member. And it said its advice was that Ms W should not 
transfer. This was because JLT thought the critical yield was above the limits that it could 
accept as a reasonable target for a cautious risk investment. It also said transferring may 
provide a lower level of TFC at retirement and Ms W had expressed a preference to remain 
in the plan.  
JLT acknowledged though that its recommendation did not meet Ms Ws preference for a 
cash sum to be available at that time. It also made the point that the enhancement to the 
CETV was only available until 30 June 2010.
JLT said it would contact Ms W to discuss this recommendation. It also included a pre-
printed acknowledgment slip for her to confirm shed read the report and indicate her choice 
 whether to accept the advice and remain in the DB scheme or to proceed with a transfer 
despite the recommendation made. The suitability report also mentioned that if Ms W 
decided to proceed against JLTs advice, she would not be able to re-join the DB scheme at 
a later date.
Ms W has said she did not speak to JLT  either in person or on the phone  at all during the 
advice process. And that no follow up contact took place. Ms W did though sign the 
acknowledgement slip on 11 June 2010 and she returned it to JLT. She selected the option 
to proceed against the advice given, noting in her own words I would like the cash payment 
and my [DB] pension transferred into my new employers pension scheme.
JLT wrote to Ms W again on 18 June 2010. It acknowledged receipt of her preference to go 
against its advice but reiterated it didnt recommend transferring. It said it would though treat 
her as an insistent client. JLT went on to recommend a fund with a specific pension 
provider for Ms W to transfer her pension benefits to  as she wanted to proceed. It noted 
that this was the scheme it had researched and determined suitable to recommend as a 
default provider to members of her DB scheme looking to transfer.
On 23 June 2010 Ms W signed and returned a further pre-printed acknowledgement slip, 
which JLT provided to her. This had set out three options - remaining in the DB scheme, 
transferring to the pension fund that JLT had now recommended, or transferring her benefits 
to another pension if she chose to. Ms W selected the option to transfer to a different 
provided than JLT recommended  a she wanted to transfer the benefits into her group 
personal pension.
JLT wrote to Ms W again on 15 July 2010, acknowledging her instruction. The CETV of 
£7,705 was subsequently transferred to Ms Ws group personal pension. And the 
enhancement paid to her as a cash sum.
Ms W complained to JLT in 2021 that the transfer was unsuitable as it had resulted in her 
pension being in a non-guaranteed fund that was too high risk. She said she was an 
inexperienced investor and hadnt understood the risks of the recommendation. And if shed 
been made properly aware of the implications of transferring, she says she would not have done so.
JLT didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had advised Ms W not to transfer and she had 
proceeded against its recommendation as she indicated she wanted to take the 
enhancement as cash. It also said it wasnt involved in the investment decisions after the 
transfer  noting again that the benefits were transferred to a different scheme than it had 
recommended.
Ms W asked our service to consider the complaint. She said shed been happy in the DB 
scheme and was encouraged by financial gain to transfer. She said that shed had no direct 
contact with JLT and all correspondence had been by post. She again said JLT had not 
made the implications of the transfer clear and had used jargon that she didnt understand. 
She said if shed known how valuable the guaranteed pension was, she wouldnt have 
transferred. She also felt it was unfair that JLT had rejected her complaint as she was aware 
of former colleagues in a similar position who had made successful claims.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought it should be upheld and that 
JLT should compensate Ms W for any loss the DB transfer had led to. In summary, she 
didnt think Ms W truly was an insistent client. Although JLT had said it didnt recommend 
transferring, the Investigator didnt think the reasons for this were as clear as they shouldve 
been or that Ms W was in a position to make an informed decision. She also thought the 
reasons were undermined by some of the other things JLT recorded. And she didnt think the 
process followed  giving Ms W the option to immediately disregard the advice  was 
balanced or fair. And, if more appropriate advice had been given, she didnt think Ms W 
wouldve transferred.
JLT disagreed. It said that it felt it had given a clear recommendation, at several different 
stages, against transferring  so to say the advice it gave was unsuitable is incorrect. It also 
did not agree that the process it followed was unreasonable and said it should not be 
penalised for facilitating a clients instruction to ignore its recommendation. In regard to some 
of the reasons that the Investigator said that a transfer was not suitable, JLT said that it had 
been clear its advice was only about whether to remain in the DB scheme or transfer and it 
wasnt carrying out a full financial review. So, it disagreed that it shouldve done more to 
understand why Ms W wanted to take the cash enhancement and what alternative options 
mightve been available. JLT also said it was under no obligation to consider the discount 
rate in comparison to the critical yield, so said this should not form part of our assessment.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. Including that JLT had to take reasonable steps 
to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Ms W. And that it had to obtain enough 
information from Ms W to ensure its recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that she had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer. These 
include, but are not limited to:
COBS 19.1.2R
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme , before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined 
benefits pension scheme;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, no later than when the key features document is 
provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison and its 
advice.
And COBS 19.1.6G
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer or 
opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
JLT has said it was clear that the service it was providing to Ms W was just in regard to 
whether to remain a member of the DB scheme or transfer her benefits. So, it didnt 
undertake a full financial review and says the comments made by our Investigator, about it 
not having asked why Ms W wanted access to a cash sum at the time of the advice and 
whether there were any alternatives, were not relevant. But I dont agree.
JLT was giving advice on whether to transfer benefits from a DB scheme to another 
arrangement. So, all of the rules Ive referenced apply. And in short, JLT needed to consider 
Ms Ws specific circumstances and objectives  which I think reasonably include why she 
was thinking of transferring. It needed to assess the options available and look at what was 
in her best interests  which I think would extend to what alternative ways of meeting her objectives were available. It needed to provide a comparison of what the situation would be if 
she opted to transfer her pension from her OPS and what it would be if she didnt, making 
clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that Ms W understood all of this 
information so that she could make an informed decision. All while ensuring it acted 
honestly, fairly and professionally.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The advice
JLT says the advice it gave was suitable  as it recommended that Ms W not transfer her 
benefits away from her DB scheme. 
I agree that a transfer was not in Ms Ws best interests. The DB scheme would provide a 
guaranteed escalating pension, whereas by transferring, her funds would be exposed to 
investment risk. Ms W noted she was a cautious investor, who wanted to minimise risk  
which a transfer didnt achieve. In noting her objectives in the fact-find document Ms W said 
that she wasnt concerned about having control over this pension fund. So, she didnt need 
to transfer for this reason. Ms W said she was interested in accessing tax free cash when 
she retired. But the DB scheme allowed her to take tax free cash on retirement. Ms W said 
she intended to retire at age 65  which was the normal retirement age of the DB scheme. 
And she said she didnt anticipate taking pension benefits prior to this. So, Ms W didnt 
require the ability to access her benefits flexibly and in any event the DB scheme would 
potentially have allowed her to take her benefits earlier than age 65 if her circumstances had 
changed. Ms W also noted that she was interested in an escalating pension income to 
provide some protection against inflation  which again the DB scheme provided.
Ms W said that she expected to need an income of £3,000 per year from her pensions. The 
guaranteed pension the DB scheme wouldve provided fell short of this amount. But it was 
not Ms Ws only retirement provision. And it did guarantee that a portion of her needs would 
be met. More importantly though, I dont think Ms W had a realistic prospect of improving on 
the benefits the DB scheme would provide at retirement.
As Ive noted the critical yield to match the benefits shed have been entitled to at age 65 
under the DB scheme was calculated to be 6.7% if she invested the entire enhanced CETV. 
Or, 7.4% if she only invested the existing CETV and took the enhancement as cash.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. JLT says that referring to the discount rate 
was not required by the regulator so has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into 
account. But I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine 
what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. The discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of what 
returns could be expected. And businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Ms W was 44 at the time of the advice and intended to retire at 65. The discount rate at that 
time for 20 years to retirement, as would be the case if she retired at 65, was 6.7%. And for further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
Taking this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms Ws 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement I dont think Ms W was likely to 
improve on the benefits she was already entitled to under the DB scheme. While the critical 
yield for investing the entire enhanced CETV was equivalent to the discount rate, her 
cautious attitude to risk was likely to mean that achieving that level of return consistently was 
more difficult. And Ms W had already indicated she didnt intend to invest the enhanced 
CETV. And I think there would be little point in Ms W giving up the guarantees available to 
her through her DB scheme, and taking on significant additional risk, only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
So, I agree that JLT was correct to recommend that Ms W not transfer her benefits. But, 
while I think the overall recommendation was suitable, I dont think the information Ms W 
was provided was clear enough for her to fully understand the risks involved, what she was 
giving up or to make an informed decision. Ms W has said that she didnt have a 
conversation with JLT at any stage  and I havent seen anything to dispute this. She also 
says she feels it just posted her pension percentage jargon. And Im inclined to agree that 
the information JLT provided didnt go far enough to clearly explain everything Ms W ought 
reasonably to have been made aware of.
Again, it is true that the suitability report said that JLT didnt recommend that Ms W transfer. 
And the report included the critical yields Ive talked about  in percentage terms. And the 
critical yield threshold per annum JLT said it would recommend given Ms Ws cautious 
attitude to risk. Which was again given as a percentage. And it broadly summarises that this 
was not considered achievable. But at no stage during the suitability report was it stated, in 
clear monetary terms, how much the DB scheme wouldve provided as an annual pension or 
the TFC that wouldve been available. Or how much Ms W might receive from a personal 
pension by transferring  particularly if the critical yields were not achieved. And I think this 
was important information that JLT needed to make sure Ms W understood. This information 
was available to JLT  as it was noted in the TVAS it instructed. 
The suitability report referred to the TVAS being provided to Ms W. But the TVAS was a 
detailed report, encompassing a significant amount of information, sometimes technical, 
about assumptions and several different scenarios. And from the information Ive seen, I 
dont think Ms W wouldve necessarily understood all of this. So, I dont think it is reasonable 
to say that she shouldve understood the value of her benefits from the TVAS report alone.
The sole reason that Ms W seems to have been considering a transfer  noted in the fact 
find and the suitability report  appears to be receiving the enhancement as cash. But there 
was no investigation by JLT into why Ms W wanted to take this sum. Nothing was recorded 
about what it was needed for, whether it was truly needed or what alternative  other than 
making an irreversible change to her retirement provisions, which JLT seems to agree was 
not in her best interests  was available to achieve this. And I think this shouldve formed 
part of the reasoning for JLTs advice  to give Ms W a full understanding of the choice being 
put to her.
It seems to be rather that Ms W thought that a sum was available which she might as well 
take because of there being little consequence. I say this because, in the fact-find, Ms W 
indicated she was interested in taking the enhancement as cash because she thought it was 
a small sum. But I think her saying this shouldve meant that JLT gave her context in relation 
to the value of the enhancement in comparison to what she was giving up. I think it needed 
to make sure she understood this, particularly as this hinted at her thought process prior to 
the advice. Ms W mayve considered the enhancement, and even the CETV, small. But I think it was 
easy for her to think this, and that transferring wouldnt make a big difference to her, without 
a comparison to the value of her retirement benefits being provided  which were 
guaranteed to be paid for the remainder of her life, at an escalating rate. Or some 
explanation that, over the term she could reasonably expect to receive these benefits, they 
were of significantly greater value. It is true that the suitability report said that she would 
potentially receive a lower pension. But without saying how much lower this was likely to be, 
Ms W wasnt, in my view, given sufficient context to make a decision.
JLT has noted that Ms W signed an acknowledgment slip saying shed read and understood 
the transfer report. But Im satisfied that Ms W was an inexperienced investor and I dont 
think the information she was provided was clear enough. And Ive seen no evidence that 
JLT actually spoke to Ms W during the advice process. So, I dont think the completion of 
this declaration is enough to say that JLT took reasonable steps to ensure Ms W understood 
the recommendation being made.
As a result, while I agree that transferring was not suitable, I dont think the advice and 
information given by JLT was clear enough for Ms W to make an informed decision about 
transferring.
Insistent client
JLT says it treated Ms W as an insistent client after she decided to act differently than 
advised and that it shouldnt be penalised for facilitating Ms Ws instruction. But Im not sure 
Ms W truly was an insistent client.
As Ive already summarised, I dont think Ms W was provided with all of the information she 
needed in order to make an informed decision about the advice. And without that information 
I also dont think she was in an informed position to decide whether she wanted to be an 
insistent client  as she didnt truly understand the consequences of this.
I think the suitability report also unnecessarily cast some doubt on the recommendation it 
was making. It made the point of saying that not transferring would mean Ms Ws preference 
for a cash sum now would not be met. And it said that Ms W may feel that it is more 
important to have the cash now rather than in the future. But again, thered been no attempt 
to understand why Ms W was even interested in taking a sum now, other than the fact she 
could, and whether she needed it. The report also made a point of saying the enhancement 
would only be available for a month  giving the impression of a time pressure. 
And then attached to the report was an acknowledgement form that JLT asked Ms W to 
complete. Rather than just acknowledge receipt of the report though, this presented her two 
options  to accept the recommendation or to transfer despite the recommendation. And I 
dont understand why options were presented to Ms W if JLT didnt think transferring was 
suitable.
Ms W had expressed a preference to take the enhancement as cash in the fact find. But 
JLTs role was to provide advice on what was in her best interests - not to facilitate what she 
mightve thought she wanted. There was no indication in the information that Ive seen to 
suggest that Ms W had already thought about disregarding the advice she was provided 
before the suitability report was issued. She was and inexperienced investor, seeking 
financial advice. The option to disregard that advice being presented to her, out of the blue, 
was likely the first time shed even thought she could disregard the advice. And the only 
purpose I think including this served was to prompt her to consider doing so. Which I dont 
think was in her best interests. And Im not sure, without this prompting by JLT, that shed 
have insisted on transferring.A similar option seems to have been presented to Ms W when JLT recommended a pension 
provider to her  to disregard this advice. But again, I dont see that giving the option of 
disregarding the recommendation being made was necessary or in Ms Ws best interests.
So overall, I think JLT made it altogether too easy for Ms W to agree to being an insistent 
client rather than allowing her time to think about the advice not to go ahead with the 
transfer.
Would Ms W have acted differently?
While I think there were failings in the advice given and the process used by JLT, I have to 
consider whether Ms W would've gone with a transfer ahead anyway  if clearer advice had 
been given and she hadnt been prompted to consider acting on an insistent client basis.
Ive thought about this carefully. Its clear that the ability to access the enhancement as a 
cash sum played a part in Ms Ws decision. And Ive thought about whether shed have 
always sought to access this money. She has told us that she was encouraged by this 
financial gain to transfer. But she has also said she was happy at the time with her benefits 
being in the DB scheme and didnt instigate the advice process  which seems to be correct 
based on how I understand advice was provided to her and other members of the DB 
scheme. She also noted at the time that the enhancement was just a small amount. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest there was an urgent need for this sum or that she couldnt have 
obtained a similar sum through other means  such as a loan  had it actually been needed. 
So, I dont think her desire to access this amount was so great that shed have always 
sought to do so  particularly if shed better understood the value of the benefits she was 
giving up.
Im conscious that, not only did Ms W decide to proceed with the transfer, after JLT 
recommended she not, but she also took a different action in terms of where she transferred 
to than it recommended. So, she acted against its advice twice. But I dont think the latter 
decision  to move her pension into the group personal pension she was already a member 
of  means she would always have transferred her pension benefits. I think this was instead 
simply a more convenient choice for her  as it consolidated all of her pensions into one 
place  after shed already opted to proceed with a transfer, due to JLT prompting her to 
consider doing so.
Overall, as an inexperienced investor, had Ms W been provided with more appropriate and 
robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think shed have gone ahead. 
I know JLT maintains that it said the transfer was against its recommendation  which overall 
was in my view correct. But I think the process JLT used directed Ms W, unnecessarily, to 
the insistent client route without having given her sufficient information to make an informed 
decision about this. And I think that swayed her to make a decision  solely based on 
accessing the enhancement  without fully understanding what she was giving up by doing 
so. And if JLT had provided clearer information and reasoning, so that she fully understood 
the long-term implications involved in transferring her OPS I think she would have acted 
differently and retained her deferred benefits. As a result, I think Ms Ws complaint should be 
upheld and that JLT should compensate her, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms W, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for its failings. I consider Ms W would have most 
likely remained in her DB scheme if fair, clear and complete advice had been given.On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Ms W whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. She has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms W. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Ms W has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Ws acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms W within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Ms W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Ms W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Ms W any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Ms W any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Ms W the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms W.
If Ms W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman