DRN-2736621
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc didnt update the status of 
her account with either her sequestration trustee of the credit reference agencies in a timely 
manner following her making a payment to clear the balance on the account.
What happened
In December 2019, M&S were notified by the trustee in Miss Ws sequestration that her M&S 
credit card was to be included as part of her sequestration order. M&S wrote to Miss W on 9 
January 2020 to confirm this. And because of this, M&S defaulted Miss Ws account.
On 17 January 2020, Miss W made a payment to M&S to clear the outstanding balance on 
her credit account in full.
In May 2020, while she was dealing with the sequestration, Miss W noticed that M&S still 
had a claim in the sequestration and hadnt taken account of the payment that shed made in 
January to clear the balance. So, she made a complaint.
M&S looked at Miss Ws complaint. They accepted that they hadnt acted on the payment 
that Miss W had made as quickly as they would have liked, but that they had taken 
corrective action in May 2020 when Miss W had made them aware of this, including writing 
to the sequestration trustee to confirm that the account balance had been cleared in 
January, and also backdating the default as satisfied from the date that Miss W made the 
payment. M&S also subsequently made a payment of £200 to Miss W to compensate her for 
the inconvenience she had incurred. 
Miss W wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the corrective action that 
M&S had taken, as well as the £200 compensation that they had paid to Miss W, 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. So, they also didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Miss W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss W feels strongly about this complaint, and its understandable that she 
would be unhappy that M&S didnt notify the sequestration trustee that the balance had been 
cleared, or update the status of the default, in a timely manner following her making the 
payment to clear her account.
Miss W has raised a number of detailed points in her correspondence with this service. Id 
like to thank Miss W for raising these points, and I hope that Miss W doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding to all of these points individually. 
Instead, Ive focussed my review on what I consider to be the crux of this complaint. If Miss 
W is aware of a specific point that I havent addressed in this letter, it shouldnt be taken from 
this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything that both Miss W and M&S have provided  but rather that I dont feel its 
necessary to directly address that point in order to make a final decision about what I feel is 
a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
In circumstances where a business hasnt acted in timely manner, such as is the case here, 
what this service would expect would be that the business in question would take the 
necessary corrective action to restore the position to what it should be, had that business 
taken the appropriate action when they first should have done.
I think that M&S have done that here. They wrote to the sequestration trustee to update 
them that the outstanding balance on the account had been cleared, and they backdated the 
status of the default on the account to show that it had been satisfied on the date that Miss 
W made the payment.
M&S have also recognised that Miss W had been inconvenienced by their delay in updating 
the default information and made a payment of £200 to Miss W to compensate her for this. 
This feels fair to me, and I note that its commensurate with what this service would expect, 
given the circumstances here.
I understand that Miss W would have liked M&S to have withdrawn the account from the 
sequestration order, following the payment made to clear the account. But M&S were 
informed of the sequestration order by the sequestration trustee in December 2019, and 
wrote to Miss W on 9 January 2020 to advise of this. And it wasnt until 17 January 2020 that 
Miss W made the payment to clear that account. 
This means that the M&S accounts inclusion in the sequestration order was confirmed 
before Miss W made the payment, and so the appropriate action for M&S to have taken, 
once the payment had been received to clear the account balance, would have been to 
inform the sequestration trustee that the balance had been cleared. And this was what M&S 
did, retrospectively, when making the corrective action as explained previously in this letter.
So, its difficult to conclude that M&S have acted unfairly or unreasonably here, given that 
theyve taken the corrective action necessary to restore the position to what it should be, and 
that theyve made a reasonable payment of compensation to Miss W for the inconvenience 
shes incurred. Similarly, its difficult to see what further action I could instruct M&S to take at 
this point, given that appropriate corrective action has already been implemented by them.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking M&S to take any further 
action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss W was wanting, but I 
hope that she can understand, given everything I have explained, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman