DRN-3881461
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the quality of a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with 
LEASYS UK LTD (LEASYS).
What happened
Mr H acquired a car under a 36 month hire agreement with LEASYS in May 2022. Under the 
agreement, Mr H was required to make an advance payment of £280.35, followed by 35 
payments of £280.35. The car was supplied from a dealership Ill refer to as D and was 
delivered to Mr H in June 2022.
The same day the car was delivered, Mr H told D one of the alloys was scuffed. D referred 
Mr H to the delivery company who Ill refer to as M. Mr H says he was unhappy with M and 
D and so he referred his complaint to LEASYS in around August 2022. He asked to 
terminate the agreement without incurring any costs.
LEASYS issued its response to Mr Hs complaint. It apologised for Mr Hs dissatisfaction and 
said as a gesture of goodwill, it would pay for the replacement of the alloy upon Mr H 
providing it with an invoice.
Unhappy with this, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He said he let D know that the 
alloy was scuffed the same day he acquired the car. He said he shouldnt have to arrange 
the repair and pay for it upfront.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr H. He said he didnt think it was reasonable that Mr H 
should be entitled to reject the car and instead thought a replacement of the alloy wheel was 
reasonable. Our investigator acknowledged that Mr H had experienced distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the issue with the car. So he said he thought it would be fair that 
LEASYS pay Mr H £100 in recognition of this. 
LEASYS agreed. Mr H disagreed and said he didnt think LEASYS had done enough to 
address his complaint. He said he didnt want to proceed with the hire agreement and he 
didnt want to pay an early termination fee to exit the agreement. 
As Mr H remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
The car supplied to Mr H was a new car. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would assume it would be free from any defects in its appearance and finish. 
In this case, neither party appears to dispute that the car was delivered to Mr H with a 
scuffed alloy. So, Im satisfied the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it as supplied 
to Mr H. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether LEASYSs offer to put things right is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. This offer is to pay for a replacement alloy upon receipt of 
an invoice and pay Mr H £100. Having reviewed this offer, Im satisfied that the offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
It appears its accepted the damage to the scuffed alloy was likely caused by M who were 
contracted by D to deliver the car. M told Mr H it would pay for the repair to the alloy in   
June 2022. At this point, Mr Hs actions demonstrated he accepted a repair, as he obtained 
a quote from a national repair company to have the repair carried out. However, Mr H said it 
wasnt convenient for him at the time to get the repair carried out. M said it would only pay 
for the repair upon receipt of an invoice confirming the repair had been carried out. When  
Mr H disagreed with this and referred his complaint to LEASYS, it made an offer to pay for 
the replacement of the alloy upon receipt of an invoice.
Having thought about this carefully, I understand why Mr H may have wanted M or LEASYS 
to pay for the repair or replacement costs upfront. However, unless a repair is to be carried 
out by a supplying dealer at its premises, generally a business will only pay for a repair once 
this has been carried out or a replacement item has been obtained by a customer. This is 
normally to avoid changes in the prices of quotes and for business audit requirements. In 
addition, its to ensure that a payment is only made once a repair has been carried out or a 
replacement item has been obtained. 
In light of this, I think LEASYS offer to pay for the cost of a replacement alloy upon receipt of 
an invoice is a fair and reasonable way to put things right in the circumstances. Im also not 
satisfied that Mr H is entitled to now reject the car, given the remedy offered by both M and 
LEASYS is fair and reasonable. 
Having said this, I appreciate that if the car wasnt delivered with a scuffed alloy, Mr H 
wouldnt have to make arrangements to source and obtain a replacement. And Im satisfied 
that it will likely be inconvenient for Mr H to pay for the replacement alloy and then claim the 
costs back from LEASYS. So I think LEASYS should pay Mr H £100 in recognition of any 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I direct LEASYS UK LTD to do the following:
Pay Mr H for the cost of the replacement alloy wheel, upon receipt of an invoice from 
him;
Pay Mr H 8% yearly simple interest from the date of this invoice until the date of 
settlement*; and
Pay Mr H £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused to him, as a result of the 
car being supplied to him with a scuffed alloy.**
* If LEASYS UK LTD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
** If LEASYS UK LTD does not pay this £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision, then it must 
also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman