DRN-3127899
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has increased the interest rate 
on his overdraft to 39.9%.
Background
In 2020, NatWest wrote to Mr S and told him that the way it was charging for overdrafts was 
changing. There would no longer be a monthly overdraft usage fee or a distinction between 
arranged and unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to his overdraft 
would be 39.9%. After reading that the regulator should take steps to avoid customers 
getting into further difficulties he applied for a loan. NatWest declined his application and    
Mr S made a formal complaint. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said it had measures in place to help those in 
difficulty and if Mr S did get into difficulty once the rate changed he should get in touch. Mr S 
remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr S is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in NatWests overdraft 
interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S if it implemented these changes unfairly.      
Mr S says that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as his interest rate is going 
up substantially and itll be almost impossible to make any headway clearing it further. 
But while Mr S may have been happier with the lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to 
NatWest how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business decision 
for it to make. I agree that a bank needs to take steps to mitigate the effects of any change 
and help any customer in financial difficulty. But Mr S accounts were in credit when the 
changes were meant to come into force in April 2020. So hed already cleared the balances 
hes saying hell struggle to clear. And its difficult for me to see what further help NatWest 
should have offered him in these circumstances - especially as the temporary measures put 
in place as a result of the pandemic, in any event, further mitigated the effects of the 
changes.  
I understand Mr S strength of feeling on this matter and why he might be unhappy at having 
to pay a higher interest rate in the future. But Im satisfied that now Mr S has exited his 
overdrafts he is able to stop using his facilities and have them removed, if he doesnt want to 
accept the new pricing structure. 
Equally, while I understand Mr S is unhappy at being declined for a loan. A bank will have its 
own criteria for assessing whether it is prepared to lend. And its not for me to tell a bank that 
it should lend in circumstances where it determines any further lending isnt affordable for 
the borrower. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest implemented these 
overdraft changes in a way that treated Mr S unfairly. And as the terms and conditions 
permitted NatWest to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not upholding 
Mr S complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman