DRN-2224341
The complaint
Mr I has complained about One Insurance Limited which provides him with accidental 
damage cover for his home because it has declined his claim. He has also complained, in 
relation to the same incident, about his home insurer  that is being dealt with under a 
separate complaint reference.  
What happened
Mr I reported water damage to the ceilings of his hall and kitchen. The matter was first dealt 
with by his home insurer. The home insurer sent a leak detection specialist to source the 
cause of the damage. The specialist said it was failed seals around the bath in the main 
bathroom and two en-suite (back-to-back) showers. The home insurer said it was declining 
the claim for water damage, and whilst it would have considered it under the policy cover for 
accidental damage (AD), Mr Is cover didnt benefit from that addition. Mr I was later advised 
that his home insurance and his AD cover are provided by two different insurers. 
One Insurance considered the claim on the basis that the home insurer had declined liability 
for the damage because it had been caused by broken/failed seals. It sent a home repair 
specialist to assess the seals to see what had caused them to be damaged. This occurred 
around three-months after the assessment completed by the home insurer.
The home repair specialist found there were no faults with the seals, photographs were 
provided to support that finding. One Insurance told Mr I that as there was no fault with the 
seals it wouldnt cover his claim for accidental damage  and if they had been faulty such 
that damage had occurred, the claim would still fail as damage caused by wear and tear is 
excluded. 
Mr I said he was shocked by this response. He felt this damage was covered and that One 
Insurance should be accepting his claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Mr I was unhappy and the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Is frustration. He noted damage which he made a claim for. His home 
insurer indicated it would have considered his claim as one for AD but it didnt provide that 
cover. This caused Mr I to make a claim to his AD insurer  and it then declined the claim. 
The difficulty for Mr I is that each insurer will assess claims individually, applying their own 
terms and conditions. So even if the home insurer had said it would have accepted the claim 
as one for AD (not just that it would have considered it) if it was providing that cover to Mr I, 
that wouldnt reasonably have tied One Insurance to making the same finding.
One Insurances decline of the claim was twofold:
its specialist had found no evidence of failed seals;
if failed seals had caused the water damage, that would equate to wear and tear, 
damage caused by which is excluded. 
Essentially the policy offers cover for damage which is unexpected and unintended and 
caused by something sudden and external. But, as is common to most policies, there are 
exclusions for damage caused by things like wear and tear and lack of maintenance. Seals 
do suffer from wear and tear and, over time, they fail. This gradual process is visible to the 
policyholder, even if the effects of it  the water leaking into the ceiling void below which 
causes damage which eventually become visible  arent apparent straight away. 
Whilst One Insurances own specialist found no issue with the seals, One Insurance was 
considering a claim on the basis that damage had been caused by failed seals, because that 
was the finding of the home insurer, and the reason for the claim being made to it. I dont 
think it was wrong for it to consider the matter in that way or, as a result of that, and even in 
light of its own specialists findings, decline the claim as it did. 
I know Mr I has since employed a plumber and has obtained further evidence showing that 
there were leaks occurring at his home. His home insurer should be reviewing that evidence. 
Im not persuaded that materially affects One Insurances assessment and decline of the 
claim made on the grounds that damage caused gradually over time by broken/failed seals 
is wear and tear and, therefore, excluded. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against One Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman