DRN-3538995
The complaint
Mr L complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly gave him a credit card account that he 
couldnt afford.
What happened
On 13 March 2018, Mr L applied for a credit account with MBNA Limited. It appears that 
the initial credit limit was £1500. 
In 2021, Mr L complained to MBNA Limited to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that MBNA Limited ought to have made 
a better effort to understand his financial circumstances before doing so.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. MBNA Limited didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 26 May 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree entirely with the adjudicators view. I set out an extract below:
Mr Ls complaint is that MBNA Limited made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability and I acknowledge that Mr L has not yet 
been asked to provide any bank statements from the time in question. But Mr L has 
provided details of his financial position as expressed in his credit report, which has been 
shared with MBNA Limited. MBNA Limited has explained that it carried out a credit check 
using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that 
MBNA Limited failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr L with credit. But even if 
thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused MBNA Limited to think the initial 
credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
for that credit would have been relatively modest. And subsequently the account was well 
managed for the following year. But the lending wasnt affordable just because it was 
afforded. 
Much was made by our adjudicator about the new credit with MBNA Limited adding to an 
already large amount of personal borrowing. And there was £13861 or so of personal 
borrowing at the time the credit was given. But I have noted that the credit card offered 0% 
for balance transfers and money transfers for over a year, until 14 June 2019. And it 
seems that Mr L made a significant balance transfer shortly after the credit card opened. 
So, rather than this adding to Mr Ls burden of credit, it looks like Mr L was taking steps, 
that could be termed sensible, to manage his existing debt by taking out this card. I say 
that because Mr L would have been saving money on interest he would have been paying 
elsewhere. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for MBNA Limited to have 
facilitated that.
I have also noted the credit file that Mr L has provided. I note that at the time the credit 
was provided there appear to have been no adverse markings in the near past. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr L to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led MBNA Limited to think that the credit it 
provided Mr L was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr L was 
managing his account or what MBNA Limited could see of his management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr L to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 9 June 2022. Both MBNA Limited and Mr Ls representatives have 
acknowledged receiving the decision. MBNA Limited told us it had no further submission it 
wished to make. Mr Ls representatives have not made any further substantive argument 
and I have received no request for a time extension. I think that both parties have had 
sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I am 
proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA Limited will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
upholding Mr Ls complaint in part, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman