DRN-4490633
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that BQI Group Limited (BQI) mis-sold a 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
M took out a motor fleet insurance policy through its broker, BQI. In July 2021 it made a mid-
term adjustment to the policy by removing an existing vehicle and adding a new vehicle onto 
the cover. The policy then renewed in February 2022. The policy was sold on an advised 
basis and information was sent to M to review by email both when the policy was amended 
and renewed. 
In March 2022, the new vehicle which was added onto the policy, and M believed to be 
insured on the policy, was stolen. M made a claim for the stolen vehicle, but the insurer said 
the vehicle wasnt covered. Ms policy contained a policy endorsement which said that it was 
a condition that all vehicles must be registered, owned, leased or hired to the insured. In this 
case the policyholder was M but the vehicle in question was not owned by M. The insurer 
therefore concluded that M breached the policy endorsement and declined Ms claim.  
M said it was mis-led by BQI and advised incorrectly. It said its requirement was for the 
insurance policy to cover both commercial and domestic vehicles used by employees. It 
routinely informed BQI when vehicle details changed, including when vehicles were 
purchased or sold. M said the policy sold by BQI was not fit for purpose, and so BQI should 
cover the financial loss it suffered as a result of the non-payment of the claim. It also wants 
BQI to cover the cost of the insurance policy. 
BQI said it wasnt aware that the vehicle wasnt in the policyholders name. BQI referred to 
the insurance certificate, schedule and policy wording, and said they all clearly stated that 
the vehicle must be owned, leased or hired by the policyholder.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought that BQI did 
enough to make M aware that the vehicles on the policy needed to be owned by the 
policyholder. He didnt think BQI mis-sold the policy.  
M didnt agree with our investigator and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms complaint. I know this will be very disappointing for M 
but Ill explain why. 
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to assure 
them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said, but I wont comment on 
everything. 
Im considering this complaint against BQI, the client facing broker during the sale and 
renewal of the policy. So, I am only considering BQIs actions in relation to the matter and 
any loss caused as a result their action. That means Ill consider if they met their obligations 
as a broker. But I wont consider whether or not the policy endorsement for ownership of 
vehicles has been applied correctly because that responsibility lies with the insurer. Any 
concerns about the applicability of the endorsement, would need to be raised separately with 
the insurer directly.
The policy was amended and renewed on an advised basis. This means, under the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS), 
BQI had a responsibility to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also had a general 
duty to provide appropriate information that is clear, fair and not misleading to enable M to 
make an informed decision about the policy.
When considering the issue of suitability, I have thought about the extent of cover needed 
when thinking about a policyholders needs and circumstances. M says it needed the policy 
for both commercial vehicles and domestic vehicles used by employees. M also argues that 
BQI were aware that the vehicle in question was a domestic vehicle which wasnt in the 
name of the policyholder.  
The vehicle was added onto the policy mid-term - M sent an email to BQI requesting the 
change. BQI amended the policy and sent M a copy of the updated risk register. 
BQI has also provided a copy of the summary of renewal proposal which contains a 
Demands and Needs statement. In this document, Ms main requirements for a motor fleet 
policy were stated as follows: 
It is a competitive premium
It provides suitable covers that meet your needs 
This company specialises in this type of insurance
Its clear a conversation took place between M and BQI to identify its requirements. M says it 
told BQI its needs, but this isnt recorded in these requirements. In situations like this, where 
the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not, given the evidence which is 
available and the wider circumstances. On balance, I dont think M did tell BQI of its need for 
vehicles not owned by M to be included in the cover. This is supported by the answer to the 
question below. 
The risk register contained a copy of the motor fleet statement of fact which asked the 
following question about vehicle ownership  are all vehicles owned, hired or leased in the 
business name and this was answered yes. It also goes on to list the policy endorsements 
including the one for ownership of vehicles that the insurer has relied upon. I think that 
including this in the documents was enough to make M aware of this term and met the 
requirement to provide appropriate information.
The material statement of fact also contains a warning which states the following: 
Disclosure of all material facts must be made prior to inception, during the terms of 
the Policy & then at renewal. A material fact is one which may influence an underwriters judgement in their assessment of the risk. Failure to disclose may result 
in a claim being turned down or the Policy being treated as void from inception...
Based on the above evidence, on a balance of probability, I think its more likely than not that 
BQI wasnt aware of Ms need to cover vehicles which were not in the policyholders name. 
The evidence also suggests to me that BQI reasonably made M aware of the need for the 
vehicle to be in the policyholders name, as well as the policy endorsement that applied to its 
insurance policy. It was then up to M to satisfy itself as a policyholder that it complied with 
this requirement in order to make a successful claim on the policy. So, I dont think BQI are 
at fault because M didnt do this.
For the reason explained above, I think BQI did what Id expect them to do. BQI was only 
able to provide advice based on the information M provided. And I am not persuaded that M 
made BQI aware of the need for the policy to cover vehicle outside of its ownership. As 
things stood, the email sent with the mid-term amendment and renewal letter included 
documents which made clear that M needed to ensure it read and understood the 
documents, which contained the policy endorsement and M took out the policy on that basis.
Overall, Im not persuaded that BQI mis-sold this policy to M or that they mis-led M about the 
extent of cover.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman