DRN-3425458
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund several payments 
he made to a fraudulent company (Boss Capital).  These payments were made using Mr Ds 
HSBC Mastercard and Visa credit cards.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, from September 2015 to May 2016, Mr D made payments (using his HSBC 
Mastercard and Visa credit cards) to what he thought was his trading account with Boss 
Capital.  At the time, he believed that they were a legitimate trading firm.  However, he later 
discovered that Boss Capital were operating a scam.
The payments made using Mr Ds Mastercard and Visa credit cards are as follows (credit is 
in italics):
Date Merchant Amount
12 September 2015 Bosscapital £200
14 September 2015 Bosscapital.com £800
7 October 2015 Bosscapital £500
10 November 2015 Bosscapital £500
10 November 2015 Bosscapital £500
15 December 2015 Bosscapital £500 (credit)
6 January 2016 Bosscapital £1,000
7 Feburary 2016 Bosscapital.com £500
1 March 2016 Bosscapital.com £500
7 April 2016 Bosscapital.com £500
4 May 2016 Bosscapital.com £540
Total amount debited: £5,540
Total less credits: £5,040
Mr D asked HSBC to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a complaint 
which he referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He did not think HSBC had 
treated Mr D unfairly by not raising/pursing a chargeback.  However, he held that Mr D did 
have a valid claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Therefore, he suggested HSBC refund to Mr D the payments he 
made, less credits (totalling £5,040); and rework his account so that all interest and charges 
caused by those payments are refunded.
Mr D accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.
HSBCs position, broadly, is that it does not accept there has been a proper assessment of 
liability pursuant to section 75.  It argues that there is not sufficient evidence  or explanation 
given in the investigators findings  to establish a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
claim.  Further, HSBC says,  it is particularly noteworthy that [Mr Ds] relationship with 
Boss Capital continued for at least 8 months and then the complaint was not raised for 
around 4 years.
The investigator requested further information from Mr D, which he provided.  This included 
deposit confirmation emails, login details, promotional offer emails, a trade agreement and 
terms and conditions.  The investigator shared some of this with HSBC and added, He [Mr 
D] explained that when he found Boss Capitals website to no longer be in operation, he 
thought his funds had been lost and there was nothing more he could do. Some time later, 
he saw information in the press about binary options investment fraud and chargebacks, 
which prompted him to ask HSBC to pursue a chargeback claim for him. In any event, there 
are no timing issues in relation to his complaint to HSBC or claim under section 75.
In light of the above, the investigator told HSBC that his findings remained the same.  As 
HSBC continued to disagree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
On 31 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld on the 
basis that HSBC is liable to Mr D under section 75.  However, I do not agree with the way in 
which the investigator dealt with redress in his findings.  I will come back to this point at the 
end of my provisional decision after addressing liability under section 75.
Chargeback
I have first considered that Mr D had no valid chargeback rights under the Mastercard or 
Visa chargeback schemes.  I say this because he did not have the evidence needed to 
satisfy the requirements of the scheme rules.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
I am satisfied that HSBC is liable to Mr D for the payments concerned.  I say this because, in 
very broad summary:
There is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 75:
oMr D (the debtor);
oHSBC (the creditor); and
oBoss Capital (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Ds paperwork and on HSBCs 
business file submissions.
The transactions Mr D made were financed by his agreement with HSBC (the 
deposit-transactions).
Mr Ds claim does not relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash 
price of less than £100 or more than £30,000.
I note that Mr Ds payments were made to Bosscapital and Bosscapital.com.  However, I 
am satisfied  despite the minor difference in name  these payees are one and the same.  
That is, the supplier in this case: Boss Capital.For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that section 75 does apply to the credit card 
deposit-transactions in this case.
I will now turn to whether Mr D has a valid claim for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract.  
Misrepresentation
Turning to Mr Ds account.  In short, he has told this service, amongst other things:
I fell victim to an online FRAUDULENT CRIMINAL company called Boss Capital 
(the Company)  I was manipulated by a highly sophisticated scam artist and 
innocently lost 5,040 GBP of my hard-earned life-savings.
He was initially making monthly payments to Boss Capital.
After about a year, he realised he was not making a profit, so he asked for his funds 
to be returned.
Boss Capital pressured him to make further payments, which he declined.
He was then unable to access Boss Capitals website.
He then did some research online and noticed that Boss Capital had stopped 
operating.  Because of this, he thought his money was gone and that he could not do 
anything further.  Until 2020, when he discovered he could raise a chargeback, so 
contacted HSBC.
There is a body of external information available through various regulators, law 
enforcement agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that 
repeat the tactics used by Boss Capital.  This does lead me to seriously question whether 
any actual trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact 
Boss Capital offered little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of warnings on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO):
Australian Securities and Investments Commission (11 May 2017)
British Columbia Securities Commission (20 July 2017)
Although these warnings were placed on the Investor Alerts Portal post the payments 
concerned, the warnings suggest Boss Capital may not have been acting legitimately.
For the above reasons, I do not think it is likely Boss Capital were operating a legitimate 
enterprise.  Therefore, I am persuaded they made misrepresentations to Mr D.  That is, that 
they were running a genuine enterprise through which he could never have got back more 
than his deposits from the platform.  I am also satisfied that if Mr D had known this, he would 
not have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract
Here, Mr D has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished.  
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  I am satisfied there 
were transactions (the deposit-transactions) as defined by section 75.
It follows, I think, that Boss Capital had contractual obligations:a) To enable Mr D to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform; and 
b) To enable Mr D to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr D was not able to use the funds from his deposits on the investment platform.  Further, 
he says Boss Capital prevented him from withdrawing funds from his trading account when 
he wanted to.  Taking these points together, I am satisfied that Boss Capital breached the 
above contractual obligations.
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Ds loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his deposits.
In summary
Ive established two grounds Mr D could have recovered his credit card deposit-transactions: 
misrepresentation and breach of contract.  As a claim for misrepresentation gives the 
highest sum, HSBC should put the Mr D back into the position he would have been had the 
deposit-transactions not been entered into.  So, he should receive refunds of these amounts.
Redress
As mentioned at the outset of my provisional findings, whilst I agree with the investigator that 
this complaint should be upheld  I do not agree with the way he dealt with redress.
I say this because the investigator asked HSBC to, amongst other things: Refund [Mr D] 
£5,040 and rework his account so that all interest and charges caused by those 
payments are refunded (emphasis added).  However, section 75 requires payment of the 
damages for which the supplier is liable, plus 8% interest from the date of Mr Ds losses (i.e. 
the date the sum was repaid).  In this instance, thats the deposit-transactions.
Therefore, I have set out the correct approach to redress below.
Responses to my provisional decisions
Neither Mr D nor HSBC responded to my provisional findings.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the fact neither party responded to my provisional findings  I see no reason to depart 
from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct that HSBC Bank UK Plc:
Pay Mr D all the money he lost, less credits he received (that would mean £5,040)  
within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ds account until 
the date of settlement.
If HSBC Bank UK Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it 
should provide Mr D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman