DRN-3104024
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund a payment made 
on her credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for six tickets to a 
concert.
What happened
In September 2017 six tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a concert in 
May 2018 using Mrs Ts Halifax credit card. The total cost charged to her card was just over 
£323.
Not long after purchasing the tickets Mrs T became concerned about whether some of the 
party could go to the concert due to either having mobility issues and some being younger 
children. On looking into the matter she discovered the tickets were for a standing only area 
and had age restrictions on them impacting children. This caused concern bearing in mind 
the people she intended to take to the concert with her. She says this transaction for these 
tickets was flawed because the Website didnt make this important information clear to her 
when she purchased the tickets. She says had she known of these issues regarding the 
tickets she wouldnt have bought them. Mrs T received the tickets in time but decided not to 
go to the concert.
Mrs T also points the costs of the transaction being unclear, she says that the website 
contravenes certain legislation as to what information should be provided and that the 
standing nature of the tickets and the minimum age requirements are restrictions on the 
tickets usage amongst other issues she raises. So she approached the Website with her 
complaint but was unsuccessful with it. So Mrs T complained to Halifax who looked into the 
matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think it could pursue a 
chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view because the 
tickets were provided. It also thought a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more for Mrs T.
Mrs T didnt think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Ts 
request for a refund. Mrs T didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the Website 
(which Mrs T then bought) or how the original purchaser described the tickets for sale.
I can see from Mrs Ts representations to the Investigator after his assessment that Mrs T is 
(understandably) focusing on the actions of the Website. However whatever issues there 
maybe with the Website it doesnt necessarily follow that Halifax has treated Mrs T unfairly. 
Indeed Halifaxs role in the matter is to be considered under the Chargeback rules in place 
and S75 of the Act and what is fair and reasonable with regard to those. So although it is 
clear Mrs T feels the Website has failings and points to certain events and the media to 
support her position it does not follow that Halifax is responsible because of this. Halifax can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Halifax has treated Mrs T fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. This is 
an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
I should also start by saying both parties have made extensive submissions and numerous 
arguments in this case. I have considered them all. But I shall only be addressing those 
issues which I consider are at the crux of this complaint.
Mrs T accepts she made this transaction for these tickets on the day in question and that 
she did this transaction with the Website in question. And although Mrs T has concerns with 
the transaction across the board the focus of her complaint has been around the information 
about the tickets made available at the point she paid for them. This service has seen a 
number of complaints about this Website and has built up through these cases (and its 
enquiries) a detailed appreciation of the process that consumers went through when 
purchasing tickets at different times. This understanding includes understanding changes to 
the selling process over several years and what purchasers would have seen at each stage 
of the process. 
Ive considered what this service knows about the process Mrs T would have gone through 
at the time she bought the tickets and what she would have seen on the Website at each 
stage. Having considered when these tickets were sold and what this service knows I 
appreciate that the full cost wasnt shown at the very beginning of the sales process. 
However Im satisfied on balance that when Mrs T went through the several stages/pages of 
the sales process and got towards the end of the sales process and had to enter her card 
details, the total cost to be charged to her was shown at that point which is importantly 
before she completed the transaction. Accordingly Im satisfied the transaction was properly 
authorised by Mrs T and correctly applied to her credit card account with Halifax. 
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs T 
does here, Halifax (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful. But I should add that card providers and indeed merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including goodwill, commercial pragmatism 
and other reasons along with that of the outcome of the chargeback being successful 
through the actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt 
necessarily mean that card issuers should refund every transaction similar to this one. I 
appreciate that other peoples Chargebacks being successful has been an argument put 
forward here and more broadly. But as Ive described Halifax can only held responsible in 
Mrs Ts case for what it did or didnt do here.
I dont think Halifax couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs T didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.Halifax is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Halifax should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Halifax) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Halifax isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Halifax has said it couldnt raise a chargeback when Mrs T started to raise concerns about 
the seats as there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the tickets wouldnt be supplied. 
And through what Mrs T has said we know the tickets were provided. And having considered 
the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im not persuaded Mrs T 
has lost out because Halifax didnt raise a chargeback. I say this because I dont think there 
was a reasonable prospect of success considering the situation and the chargeback rules. I 
also think had it raised a chargeback the Website would have defended it on the basis it 
provided what it said it would and hadnt done anything wrong (as it had in response to her 
complaint to it). 
Mrs T has reviewed the chargeback rules and points to certain sections of it. She notes one 
section with regards to goods could not be used for intended purposes. And says the 
chargeback should be successful on this. In essence shes saying she wished to take 
children to the concert so these tickets due to the age restriction within them meant they 
could not be used for the intended purpose. I disagree with how Mrs T is construing 
intended here. It is clear that the intended purpose here means the originating purpose for 
which the good was intended to be used for by the creator or seller of that good rather than 
what the purchaser intended to use it for. If it is to be construed as Mrs T suggests this 
would lead to vast unfairness to both suppliers and banks because all chargebacks would be 
successful if the purchasers intended use was different to the original purpose of the good in 
question no matter how unrelated the purchasers intention was compared to the original 
intention for that good. So I think it is clear that intended means here that the good needs to 
fulfil the purpose it was created or sold to do rather than what the purchaser sought to do 
with it-which could be vastly different to the creator/sellers intention for it. And 
notwithstanding all of this, the fact remains that the Website isnt the supplier of the tickets, it 
is a market or meeting place for buyers and sellers to meet and transact through it and 
would doubtlessly have rejected any chargeback on that basis.
Mrs T also points the rules stating that goods and services did not conform to their 
description. Im not persuaded here either. She hasnt been told anything during the sale 
which was untrue. Firstly that these tickets had written constrictions (re age) and practical 
constrictions (re access/mobility), doesnt mean that they no longer were tickets or usable as 
such at the concert by those not impacted by those issues. Mrs T wasnt buying these tickets 
through a sales process which delineated between age groups or based on access/mobility. 
The reality was she was purchasing general tickets which had restrictions on them that 
werent made apparent by the original purchaser of the tickets (rather than the Website). 
This is different to not conforming to description as there was nothing in the description that 
wasnt true. And notwithstanding this I dont think such a chargeback would have been 
successful for the reasons given in my earlier paragraphs on chargeback.
So whether or not Halifax should have raised a chargeback doesnt make a difference here 
because I dont think Mrs T has lost out because of what Halifax did. I think on balance had it 
raised a chargeback it would have been unsuccessful considering the position of the website and the chargeback rules. So I think Halifaxs position of such a chargeback not having a 
reasonable prospect of success is correct.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Ts Halifax credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Halifax as she does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by it. I 
should make very clear here that this test is a very different test to whether Mrs T thinks the 
Website could have done things better overall. Ultimately Halifax is only responsible in this 
case due to this legislation and is only responsible for those issues which are ascribed to it 
under this legislation (which has significant limits within it). This distinction between Halifax 
and the Website is crucial in properly appreciating this complaint. They are far from one and 
the same.
S56 of this Act is also important here. In summary section 56 has the effect of making 
Halifax responsible during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs T entering into the 
agreement. In essence this means Halifax can be held responsible for the things that were 
done or said during the sales process before agreement was reached. As Ive described the 
liability here under the Act has significant limitations. For instance the Act includes certain 
financial limits under S75 with regard to the amount of the transaction in question. Ive 
considered these limits and Im satisfied that Mrs Ts transaction can be considered under 
this section. Another limitation is around the nature of the relationship between parties. For a 
valid claim under there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in place. The 
Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. This is a key distinction here 
and an important one in the consideration of the case more broadly. However the Website 
does provide a service and for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website 
says it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs T, Halifax and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how the ticket information that was provided by the 
seller (the original ticket purchaser-not the Website) is displayed to buyers. Under the 
guarantee its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller (the 
original purchaser of the tickets who is now selling them through the Website) doesnt fulfil 
their obligations around supplying the tickets.
For a successful claim Mrs T would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website, not as Ive said before that the Website could have done better or more. As 
Ive mentioned this service has built up a thorough understanding of the websites processes 
and what consumers saw as they navigated through the sales process. Clearly in any sales process things can be done better. But Halifax can only be responsible 
here if there is either a breach of contract or misrepresentation which materially impacted 
Mrs Ts decision to purchase. Which is a different test than to that of whether or not Mrs T 
feels the websites sales process was fair or whether she was told every possible piece of 
information she might want. Clearly there was no breach in delivering the tickets because 
the tickets that Mrs T bought were supplied to her. It was her decision not to use the tickets 
and Halifax wasnt responsible for that. 
And having considered the websites sales process throughout from the time Mrs T used it, 
Im not persuaded she was told anything that was untrue which led her to buy tickets she 
would not have bought otherwise. Lastly it doesnt make a difference whether I consider this 
under S75 or indeed S56 because a claim under the Act can only be successful if there is 
shown to be a breach of contract or a material misrepresentation. And Im not satisfied there 
is either here at any stage of the interaction between Mrs T and the Website. Mrs T 
disagrees with this. And I can see she points to a number of reasons for why she disagrees. 
Ill deal with these in turn.
Ticket restrictions
One of Mrs Ts key arguments is if shed known the tickets had age restrictions and were all 
standing tickets she would not have bought the tickets. But the Websites order confirmation 
and tickets identify them as being for the Stalls which is true, as thats where the tickets 
were for. But as we know the Website isnt the supplier of the tickets themselves. It is in 
essence a market introducing buyers to sellers. There is no misrepresentation here or 
breach of contract. Mrs T bought tickets for the Stalls and thats what she got.
Similarly Mrs T points to the age restrictions on the tickets. But at no stage was Mrs T told 
that these tickets were for children of the ages she describes wanting to attend with her. Mrs 
T points to a strapline on the website when she was purchasing the tickets from a screen 
shot shes provided of the sales process from some months after she bought the tickets in 
this case. This strapline says children under 8 will not be admitted. Under 14s must be 
accompanied by an adult. She says this implies that 8-13yr old children can use these 
specific tickets. Im not persuaded by this because this warning although on the same page it 
is in a different section to the purchase section on that page and in a different colour. So Im 
not persuaded that it implies what Mrs T says it implies. So no misrepresentation there.
But the key issue here is Halifax doesnt have the same responsibilities here as the Website 
she bought the tickets through. Halifax is only liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under S75. Halifax doesnt have a responsibility for omission of 
information under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.  So although Mrs T clearly feels 
the Website is at fault here in not disclosing this information about these seats any such 
failing on that issue doesnt mean that Halifax is at fault. And bearing in mind Halifax is only 
liable here due to this Act then it cannot be held liable for any omission here. And it should 
be remembered that at the point of sale neither the Website nor the seller of the tickets have 
been shown to be on notice that Mrs T had such requirements prior to purchasing the 
tickets.
Consumer Rights Act (CRA)
Mrs T says that the website has broken parts of the CRA. The crux of this issue is that the 
CRA in this context is applying rules to secondary ticket selling sites such as the one here. 
But it doesnt follow that just because Mrs T says the Website is in contravention of the CRA 
that that makes Halifax liable in this case. As Ive explained Halifax only has liability here for 
breach or misrepresentation by the Website. And in describing what it has in relation to 
these tickets Im not persuaded the Website has stated anything untrue. It has pointed to where the tickets were for and Mrs T got those tickets. And as Mrs T chose not to attend the 
event and the tickets were supplied then theres not been any breach of contract 
demonstrated. 
Mrs T also points to the relevant rules for secondary ticket selling having been considered by 
relevant parties and having been updated over time. This area of sales practices has been 
reviewed, considered and challenged. But this doesnt make a difference here. The 
legislation which makes Halifax have potential liability hasnt been changed in the interim. 
And it is only Halifaxs behaviour that I can decide upon here.
Other sellers selling tickets for the same event
Mrs T points to other sellers selling tickets for the same event on the Website and their 
providing more information including things like accessibility and age restrictions. This isnt in 
dispute. However other sellers provide more information on their adverts (for want of a 
better word) for selling tickets on the Website doesnt demonstrate that the Website has 
breached the contract or misrepresented the tickets. And hence Halifax wouldnt be liable for 
this.
Website not the same as was in February 2017
Mrs T makes the argument that the website looks differently now than it did when she used it 
in to buy the tickets. This service has built up a wealth of information regarding the website 
in question through a variety of sources. So Im satisfied when Im considering what Mrs T 
was told at the time of the sale Im considering what the website pages looked like at that 
point and not what the pages looked like during later iterations.
Official Seller
Mrs T has argued that she thought when she first searched for tickets that she was 
purchasing from the official seller of the tickets and hence these tickets were not resold 
tickets but rather tickets sold from the originator of the tickets. Firstly the Website (and hence 
Halifax) isnt responsible for the actions of other websites such as search engines. So if Mrs 
T is relying on other websites information then Halifax isnt responsible for that. Secondly 
Ive considered the Website in question from the time and Im satisfied it makes clear it is a 
secondary ticket selling website. Im not persuaded it holds itself out as the primary ticket 
seller or its agent or the official site for purchasing these specific tickets.
Media comment
Mrs T points to online comment about the website and a vast array of other relevant 
argument about the website. Clearly much has changed since those times about ticket 
selling websites such as this. But all of that doesnt change the fact that I can only consider 
whether Halifax has treated Mrs T fairly in its decision not to refund the cost of the tickets. 
Halifax is only liable if there is breach or misrepresentation by the website and Im not 
persuaded there was. And I can only consider what Halifax did here as the website isnt 
within my powers directly to decide upon.
Other cases/legal cases
Mrs T points to other cases and proceedings in other dispute avenues. There is no debate 
that pertinent questions and issues are raised about the secondary ticketing market. But 
those are not for this service or this decision. I can only decide on whether Halifax acted 
fairly in relation to what its obligations and what is fair and reasonable in relation to this 
transaction in that context. I should add that although I have to consider the law in my decision making, the rules that set out my powers make clear that Im not bound by it. I am 
obligated to make fair and reasonable decisions and give reasons for those decision which 
Im satisfied Ive done that here.
What Halifax has said
Mrs T has pointed to what Halifax has said to her during the course of this dispute. She 
questions its comments and interpretations on both its obligations and the rules it needs to 
consider within this matter. It is always possible to articulate matters better, however the crux 
of this complaint is whether Halifax has treated Mrs T fairly in relation to its obligations. And I 
think it has. Im not persuaded that Halifax has said anything which has caused 
unreasonable or unfair consequences to Mrs T in the course of this dispute. Just because 
Mrs T doesnt agree with some of Halifaxs analysis doesnt mean it treated her unfairly.
In summary this is a decision about what Halifax is responsible for. I can see Mrs Ts 
response to the Investigators assessment here focussed almost wholly on what the Website 
did and didnt do. But this isnt the test here being applied to Halifax. The test here is did 
Halifax consider the Chargeback situation here properly and was there any breach of 
contract or material misrepresentation made out in order to have a successful claim under 
S75. I think that Mrs T hasnt lost out here as I think Halifax made a fair decision in not 
pursuing the chargeback. Im not persuaded that there has been a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website which Halifax should be responsible for. And I think 
Halifax correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mrs Ts credit card account. So I dont think 
I can fairly require Halifax to refund Mrs T for the tickets. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
However I must add I have a significant amount of sympathy with Mrs Ts position on this 
matter. I can appreciate that this concert was to be a particularly special occasion and also 
an opportunity for her family to enjoy a concert together. The realisation of the issues here 
must have been a hammer blow to her. Nevertheless Halifax is a third party here and were it 
not for this legislation (S75) and the Chargeback scheme it wouldnt have any liability here 
whatsoever. And I dont think it has treated her unfairly in relation to these areas.
This decision does not prevent Mrs T continuing her dispute with the Website directly if she 
chooses to do so. However this decision does bring to an end her dispute with Halifax at this 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman