DRN-3534553
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) treated her when 
she was experiencing financial difficulties. She is also unhappy it closed her account when 
she switched banks as she thought she would have use of the overdraft for a further month.
What happened
Following contact from Ms R in February 2020 she was put on a repayment plan to help pay 
her overdraft. Ms R says she was pressured to pay more than she could afford. 
In November 2020 Ms Rs account was closed when she switched her account to another 
bank. Ms R complained to Nationwide about it closing her account when she was only 
expecting a partial switch. She was also unhappy with the service she received from the 
collections team regarding her account. 
Nationwide didnt uphold her account regarding the closing of her account as it said no 
errors had been made on its part, but it did compensate her £100 for the service she had 
received. 
Ms R was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and thought that Nationwide couldnt be held responsible for the 
errors made in the switching out process as that was the responsibility of the bank she was 
switching to. 
But they thought that Nationwide should have stepped in sooner to assist Ms R as it was 
clear from her bank statements she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an 
extended period of time. They thought Nationwide should have stopped charging overdraft 
fees from 1 March 2018 as by this point it was clear Ms R was in financial difficulty. 
Nationwide made an offer in-line with our adjudicators view. It said that it would:
1) rework current account overdraft balance so all interest fees and charges
applied to it from 1 March 2018 onwards are removed.
2) if an outstanding balance remains once the adjustments have been made
arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to
record negative information on the account it would backdate this to 1 March 2018.
3) or if the effect of removing all interest fees and charges result there no
longer being a balance, any extra will be treated as overpayments along with
8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made until
date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments
made, then it will remove any adverse data from the credit file. 
Ms R didnt wish to accept this offer  she would like further compensation for being denied 
access to the overdraft of £600 she had with Nationwide prior to her account being switched 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Nationwide has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest 
and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here that although a payment plan may have been 
reached in 2020 I dont think this was soon enough. I say this because even having a 
cursory look at Ms Rs bank statements I can see she hadnt been able to maintain or see a 
credit balance for an extended period of time and think that Nationwide shouldve stepped in 
by 1 March 2018. 
Nationwide has agreed to this  and Ms R will be refunded all of the interest, fees and 
charges caused by her overdraft from 1 March 2018. So while Ms R has been left with a 
balance and she might be unhappy with this, Nationwide has agreed to do what Id normally 
expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms R says Nationwide havent done enough. In particular she is unhappy that her overdraft 
and account was closed sooner than she expected denying her access to her £600 overdraft 
with Nationwide. But as has been explained above Nationwide wasnt responsible for the 
switching process  it was the bank Ms R was switching to  so I cant say Nationwide did 
anything wrong here. And the £600 overdraft werent Ms Rs funds to keep  the funds 
represent a debt Ms R owed to Nationwide.
Furthermore, Nationwide has already apologised and compensated Ms R £100 for 
inadequate service which I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Nationwide has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Ms R to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Nationwides offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Nationwide Building Society has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman