DRN-2885122
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) sent him a replacement debit card that 
he hadnt requested and sent him confusing letters regarding a payment plan that hed set 
up. Mr M is also unhappy that a letter was sent by Bank of Scotland to an incorrect address.
What happened
Mr M set up a payment plan from his account. Shortly afterwards he received two letters, 
both dated the same date. These letters contained conflicting information, which left Mr M 
uncertain as to whether the payment plan hed set up had been set up correctly, or not.
Mr M also received a replacement debit card in the post, even though he hadnt requested 
one and his previous debit card still had approximately two years left before it expired. This 
caused Mr M considerable inconvenience because he had to cancel several recurring debit 
card payments and reinitialise them with the new debit card details.
Mr M wasnt happy about the above issues, so he made a complaint. BOS looked at Mr Ms 
complaint and issued a response letter to him. But this letter was never received by Mr M 
because it was sent by BOS to an incorrect address. Mr M was further displeased by this, so 
he included this in his complaint and reiterated it to BOS.
BOS looked at Mr Ms continuing complaint. They agreed that the letters that Mr M had been 
sent did contain conflicting information and explained that the reason for this was that one of 
the letters had been pre-generated before Mr M had made the new payment plan - and so 
by the time it had been posted the information contained therein was no longer valid. 
BOS apologised to Mr M for this and offered to reimburse Mr M a total of £19.50 by way of 
compensation. This amount included £15 for the inconvenience that Mr M had incurred, as 
well as £4.50 to cover the costs of the telephone calls that Mr M had to make.
BOS also acknowledged that they had sent a letter for Mr M to an old address at which Mr M 
no longer resided. BOS apologised to Mr M for this and offered to pay Mr M £150 for the 
trouble and upset the matter had caused.
Finally, BOS looked at Mr Ms complaint about receiving the replacement debit card. But 
they noted that they had provided new contactless cards to all their basic bank account 
holders and that there had been no requirement for Mr M to update any recurring payment 
details as this would have been done automatically. BOS also noted that they had no 
records of any missed payments resulting from this charge of debit card, and so they didnt 
uphold this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BOSs responses, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the responses that BOS 
had already issued to Mr M regarding his complaints, including the offers of compensation 
and the non-uphold of the replacement debit card complaint point, already represented a fair 
and reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has acknowledged that it made errors  in 
this instance regarding the letter being sent to the wrong address and the conflicting 
information sent in the letters both dated the same day  what this service would expect 
would be that the business would apologise to their customer and make offers of 
compensation that are fair and reasonable in light of what took place.
I think that BOS have done that here. They apologised to Mr M for the conflicting information 
in the two letters and provided an explanation of why this had taken place. They also 
assured Mr M that the payment plan that hed set up hadnt been affected and offered Mr M 
a payment of £15 as compensation for the inconvenience the matter had caused, as well as 
a further £4.50 to cover the costs of the telephone calls that Mr M had made because of this 
issue.
Similarly, regarding BOS sending the letter to Mr Ms previous address, BOS apologised to 
Mr M and explained that it had been as a result of human error  of the relevant system not 
being updated correctly  and confirmed that the mistake had been corrected. BOS also 
offered Mr M a payment of £150 to compensate him for the distress and trouble he might 
have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer of compensation consider fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the 
offers of compensation that BOS have already made here  totalling £169.50  do feel fair to 
me, given the circumstances, and I note that theyre commensurate with what this service 
would expect here.
While I understand that Mr M may not agree with me, it follows that Im satisfied that the 
complaint responses that BOS have already made to Mr M regarding these two complaint 
points, as described above, do represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened.
Mr M is also unhappy that he was issued a replacement debit card when his existing debit 
card still had considerable time to run before it expired. BOS have explained to this service 
that, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, they made the decision to provide all of their 
basic bank account customers with new contactless debit cards, and it was for this reason 
that Mr M received his replacement card at the time that he did.
This seems reasonable to me, and Id find it difficult to censure BOS for making a decision 
such as this which clearly has the best interests of its customers in mind.
Mr M has stated that he was inconvenienced by the receipt of the new card because it 
meant he had to update the card details on his existing recurring debit card payment plans. I 
can appreciation Mr Ms position here, but BOS have explained to this service that Mr M 
wouldnt have needed to have updated his existing plans as this would have been done 
automatically. BOS have also confirmed that they have no record of any declined card 
transactions around the time that the replacement card was issued.
Of course, while it may have been the case that Mr M didnt have to update his recurring 
debit card transactions, it may have been the case that Mr M wasnt aware of this and that he did update his plans. However, I dont feel that this is something for which any form of 
compensation would be merited, and Im satisfied that BOSs explanation as to why they 
sent the replacement card is a reasonable one.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking BOS to take any further action at 
this time.
I hope that Mr M can understand, given everything that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman