DRN-3213231
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly increased his pet 
insurance premium.
Provisional findings
On 22 November 2021 I issued a provisional decision. For ease I've copied the relevant 
extracts below. I said:
What happened
Mr H bought a lifetime pet policy for his dog in 2019. The policy is underwritten by HDI. At 
that time his annual premium was around £234. The policy renewed in 2020 and the 
premium increased to around £283. During that policy year Mr H claimed for vets treatment 
for his dog. When his policy renewed in 2021 his premium had almost doubled to around 
£581.
Mr H complained. The broker who sold Mr H the policy  which Ill refer to as P  also 
administers it. P answered the complaint on behalf of both itself and HDI. P acknowledged 
that it could have given Mr H more information when he bought the policy. So it paid him £80 
compensation. But it said HDIs price rise was fair.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. He told us his complaint was in two parts:
He wasn't made aware, when he took the policy out, that his premium could increase 
so significantly.
The scale of the increase wasn't fair.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He considered both points against HDI. 
He said that while he felt it had calculated the premium fairly it could have done more to let 
Mr H know, at the point of sale, that the premium could be subject to a significant increase. 
So he said HDI should increase the compensation from £80 to £200 in total.
HDI didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P sold the policy to Mr H and it also acts as the policy administrator on behalf of HDI. But 
HDI and P are two separate businesses. And, when P sold the policy, it was acting solely for 
itself. So any complaint about the sale of the policy would remain Ps responsibility not 
HDI's. As such I don't intend to comment on any issue concerning the sale of the policy in 
this decision. However, where P acts on HDIs behalf, for example by explaining premium 
rises, complaints about those matters remain HDIs responsibility. And thats what Ive made 
my findings about below.
Given the significant increase in Mr Hs renewal premium I can understand his concerns that 
the increase isn't fair. But were not the industry regulator and we have no power to make an 
insurer lower its charges. Generally, its not my role to tell an insurer what price it should 
charge for the risks its policies cover, nor do I decide what factors it should take into account 
when assessing those risks. And we usually take the view that, providing they treat people 
fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment of 
how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might have to 
pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own way.
Its up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that they want 
to charge for that cover, based on the risk it thinks a customer presents. And, in general, the 
cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and theres more risk of a 
claim being made. Insurers will also factor in the increasing costs of medical treatment. 
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions the pet had, or 
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So ongoing or recurring 
medical conditions wont be covered. But lifetime policies, like the one Mr H took out, will 
cover any conditions the pet develops on an ongoing basis for the rest of their lives  as long 
as the policy continues.
Providing this cover may be expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go 
up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could be and I cant 
impose one. But Ill look to see if an insurer has treated its customer as it would others with 
similar circumstances.
In response to Mr Hs complaint HDI told him about some of the factors it considers when 
assessing risk and calculating premiums. Those include factors that will affect all its 
customers, which are things like: the increasing costs of vets fees; insurance premium tax; 
and other underwriting changes. And its assessment of those factors will affect all its 
customers in a similar way. Then there are other specific factors that will affect Mr H and 
those with dogs who present similar specific risks. That includes things like the dogs age, 
and  following a claim  the risk of a condition recurring.
In this case it's seems that, after Mr H had made a claim for his dogs treatment, that 
affected the risk HDI felt his dog presented. So HDI reflected that increased risk in Mr Hs 
premium calculation. That something its allowed to do. Given the size of the increase I can 
understand why Mr H wasn't happy with it. But that doesn't mean HDI has done anything 
wrong.
I note that when Mr Hs policy was due for renewal in 2020, the renewal invitation HDI sent 
to him said that premiums were likely to increase as his dog got older and that this increase 
will be significant if you have claimed. So I think HDI did give Mr H some warning that his 
future premiums might be subject to a considerable rise. And I've seen no evidence that HDI 
singled Mr H out or treated him differently to its other customers with similar circumstances. 
So, although I can understand why Mr H found the price rise difficult to bear, I dont think 
HDI calculated his premium unfairly.
Developments 
HDI said that it was P, rather than it, that was responsible for sending renewal information in 
2020 but otherwise, neither it nor Mr H raised any objection to my provisional findings. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither HDI nor Mr P objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman