DRN-2163504
The complaint
Miss S complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
Miss S said she took out the PPI alongside a mortgage in 1997. She also told us that the 
sale took place in a branch of the bank, and that she wasnt given a choice about taking the 
insurance. Santander said its records showed the PPI as having been taken out in March 
1999 during a meeting at one of its branches, but it couldnt trace an associated mortgage 
account. Santander further said that it recommended the policy for Miss S, the policy came 
into force in May 1999, and it was cancelled in November 1999 at Miss Ss request.
The PPI policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Miss S at a monthly 
cost of £35.34. The monthly benefit was £591.00, and if Miss S had made a successful 
claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss S disagreed, and asked 
that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
This isnt an easy case to decide as I have no documentation from Miss Ss PPI sale other 
than limited computer records provided by Santander. Miss S sent in a copy of the Land 
Registry entry for the property, which shows that Santander (then trading as Abbey National 
PLC) held a charge over the property. The date of the charge  February 1997 - is the same 
as the date on which Ms S became the owner of the property. However, Santander cannot 
trace the details of the mortgage account  it has sent in screenshots of the searches it 
carried out on its computer system, and while other types of account are listed, the mortgage 
is not. From what Miss S said about her circumstances, it seems as though the mortgage 
would have been repaid some years ago, and it may simply be that records have been 
deleted  businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. 
Santander was able to provide some information from the underwriter of the policy, and this 
stated that the policy came into force in May 1999, and was cancelled at Miss Ss request in 
November of that year, after six premiums had been paid. Santander also sent in a 
screenshot showing the policy number and the date of sale - 31 March 1999  and that it 
was a branch sale. 
From all this it seems that Miss S took out the PPI some two years after she took out the 
mortgage, although Ive no evidence to say what prompted the sale of the PPI. 
Ive thought about what Miss S said about not being given a choice about the PPI. However, 
shed taken out the mortgage earlier, so I think it wouldve been clear that the PPI wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage. Ive also kept in mind that Santander said it advised Miss S to 
take the PPI  so its possible that Miss S has remembered the suggestion that she should 
have the cover as being a requirement that she must have it. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say its most likely that Miss S was told she had to have 
the PPI, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I 
simply dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
As Santander advised Miss S to take the PPI, it shouldve made sure it was suitable for her. I 
think it was. 
As the sale took place during a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - 
especially the things not covered. But I cant see that Miss S wouldve been affected by any 
of these. Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Miss S, but I dont think its 
likely that she would have agreed to take the PPI without some idea of the amount shed 
need to pay. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for her. 
Miss S told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of a weeks full 
pay, and she didnt have any savings she couldve relied on. So I think she could have found 
it difficult to make the mortgage payments quite quickly if shed been off sick from work or 
had lost her job. I also think Miss S could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment that was secured on her home. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful 
benefit. 
In summary, although I cant know whether Santander clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Miss S would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if she couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, as I can see she feels strongly 
about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman