DRN-2566294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs C bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a further
advance. They say they never knowingly took out PPI. Lloyds has records showing the sale 
took place in one of its branches. Mr and Mrs C dispute this, saying all their mortgages were 
arranged through a third party. I will return to these points later, but as Lloyds has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and this complaint, I will refer to Lloyds in this decision.
The policy gave Mr and Mrs C protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view Mr and Mrs C said we had ignored what they had told 
us and just used the information from Lloyds. I have weighed up the available evidence from 
both sides, and as some of it is incomplete or contradictory my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence 
we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. As an independent 
and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no 
benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say no discussion took place about PPI and all their mortgage dealings were 
with a third party, and never with Lloyds. But Lloyds has provided a copy of their signed PPI 
application form and their direct debit mandate for the cover. This shows which branch of 
Cheltenham & Gloucester the sale was recorded at. I accept its possible that Mr and Mrs C 
met with a third party to arrange their further advance, who may or may not have initiated the 
PPI sale, but I dont need to make a finding on this as Lloyds has accepted responsibility for 
this sale, and therefore this complaint. This is because even if the sale originated through a 
third party, they would have been working as an agent of Lloyds. 
I cant know what was said to Mr and Mrs C about PPI, but as Ive said Lloyds has sent in 
their PPI application form. They say they didnt knowingly sign for PPI, but I think its 
reasonable to expect they would have read the form before signing. And theres nothing on 
the form that I think could reasonably have led them to believe it was mandatory. Also they 
didnt take out PPI in 1999 when their mortgage started, so I think they would have known it 
was a separate optional product.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs C said, and I dont doubt these are their 
honest recollections, but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how 
that might affect what they recall. Overall, I think its most likely Lloyds made it clear the PPI 
was optional, and Mr and Mrs C agreed to take it out.
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI, Lloyds says it did and I have reviewed 
the sale on this basis. This is to Mr and Mrs Cs benefit as it means the bank had more 
obligations to meet during the sales process. It means they had to check if the PPI was right 
for them. I know they feel they didnt need the cover, but I think it seems to have been right 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Ill explain
why.
Mr and Mrs C were self-employed and told us they had no savings. They said as company 
directors they would have been paid each month if they were off sick. But it doesnt seem 
this was a contractual entitlement and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy 
cover. And this policy didnt make it any harder for people who were self-employed to make 
a claim. Mr and Mrs C were increasing the borrowing secured on their home. Given the 
serious consequences of missing repayments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr 
and Mrs C if they were sick, had an accident or became unemployed.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was reasonably priced 
for the benefit it offered, and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the 
main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs C dont appear to have been affected by 
any of those things. So I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman