DRN-3415911
The complaint
Miss N says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has treated her unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on her credit card which paid for a house rental abroad.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss N used her Halifax credit card to pay for a house rental for her and 
family members for two nights. She paid Firm N who had provided information about 
availability and rates for the house rental on its website. The cost was £1089.26, and this 
amount was allocated to Miss Ns credit card account. The house was supplied by the house 
owner who had a separate agreement with Firm N.
On arrival at the house rental Miss N says the house wasnt as described. She has provided 
photos which she says show how dirty it was and how the advertised pictures were 
deliberately misleading. So she wants her money back. Miss N complained and was 
originally unsuccessful in complaining to Firm N.
She then took her dispute to Halifax to see if it could help. Halifax says it considered the 
matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund her the cost of the house rental. 
It notes that Miss N and her party stayed at the house rental for the entire period of the 
rental. So Miss N, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this service. However Miss N 
had continued to dispute the matter with Firm N and it latterly made a partial refund of 
£280.85.
Our Investigator considered all of this and felt Halifax didnt have to do any more, all things 
considered. And Miss N remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N used her Halifax credit card to pay Firm N for the house rental. This means Halifax 
has, if certain criteria are met, certain responsibilities to Miss N which arise from the relevant 
law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss N to hold Halifax liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence a like claim against 
Halifax to that against the supplier.
Halifaxs credit card, which was used here, operates within a card network (a separate 
company). And this network has rules which includes giving Halifax an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Halifax and whether it did 
what it should have done and whether it treated Miss N fairly. This decision isnt about Firm 
N or the House owner, neither of which are parties to this decision and neither of which are 
within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
important distinction is clear.
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Miss N 
does here, Halifax can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Miss N doesnt 
dispute that she used her Halifax credit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, date, or 
any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Halifax couldve challenged the 
payment on the basis Miss N didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just 
set out.
Halifax is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Halifax considered what Miss N told it about what happened and considered the Chargeback 
scheme rules. It notes that the house rental was stayed at for the full period of the rental. 
Halifax originally said to Miss N that it decided not to raise a chargeback because the 
contract said it was non-refundable. Halifax has said to this service that there werent any 
chargeback rights applicable. Im not persuaded by this because there are chargeback 
reasons such as goods or services not as described. So Im not persuaded by Halifaxs 
reasoning here. But Im not persuaded this makes a difference or led to Miss N losing out. Ill 
explain why.
From what Miss N has told us, Firm N has refunded her £280.85 in relation to this house 
rental. Miss N accepts that she and her entire party stayed for the nights booked. She says 
the house wasnt of the quality she was expecting, and shes provided some photographs 
which Ive considered. For me to decide that Halifax has to do more now in relation to not 
raising a chargeback then, Id need to be persuaded that had Halifax pursued the 
Chargeback as far as it could that it would have led to a better outcome for Miss N than 
shes already had (the partial refund). And naturally this is a very subjective issue where 
some people would think the rental was adequate and others wouldnt. It also needs to be 
remembered that had Halifax taken this dispute all the way through the chargeback process 
it is not Halifax that make the final decision-this falls to the card network. So Halifax could do 
everything correctly and Miss N still be unsuccessful with her chargeback.
Ive considered the evidence Miss N has provided and although it shows some issues within 
the house and outside it, Im not persuaded the whole house rental offering was 
misrepresented to her as she describes. Shes pointed to some things not being tidy and 
some other issues but the evidence shes provided illustrates to me her overall subjective 
disappointment rather than demonstrating specific representations made were untrue. I do 
think there were some issues with regard to tidiness and the state of cleanliness, but I can 
also see Miss N received a significant refund in relation to the house rental. And accordingly 
I dont think that had the Chargeback gone to arbitration the network would have decided the 
Chargeback should have led to a bigger refund than shes already received.
So although I dont agree with Halifaxs thinking on the matter I dont think this has led to 
Miss N losing out. So I dont think it has to do anymore on the matter.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these limits I 
think on balance that Miss Ns claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor-Miss N) should have a 
contractual relationship with whoever supplied the goods or services (the Supplier-the House 
owner here) as well as with the credit provider (the Creditor-Halifax). Miss N says that the 
DCS relationship is in place so Halifax can be held liable for any breach of contract by the 
House owner. She also says it shouldnt make a difference. I dont think this makes a 
difference to whether Halifax need to refund the transaction but for completeness I shall 
address it.
The House owner supplied Miss N with the house rental, but it wasnt who she paid with her 
credit card. She paid Firm N. And having considered Firm Ns terms and conditions from the 
time I can see it makes clear it doesnt own the house or take on the benefits of or risks of 
supplying it. And these are the terms Miss N agreed to when using Firm Ns service. So we 
have four parties here, Miss N, Halifax, Firm N, and the house owner. So I dont think DCS is 
in place here. 
But even if DCS was in place here I dont think Halifax has to do any more. I say this 
because Im not persuaded that Halifax has treated Miss N unfairly by concluding it didnt 
need to do anymore here. And it should be remembered that Halifax only have to do 
something under S75 if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I say this because although Miss N points to issues that she says were wrong with the house 
Im not persuaded she was told anything material that turned out to be factually incorrect 
which led her entering the contract shed otherwise not have. She clearly stayed at the 
correct property that she paid for and for the entire time of the booking and thus had 
significant benefit from it, so Im not persuaded the homeowner breached the contract by not 
supplying the property. Nor am I persuaded shes lost out bearing in mind she has had a 
significant refund as well as staying at the property. Due to the subjective nature of these 
issues, having considered the photographs shes provided I dont think Halifax has to do 
anymore. It would be unfair on Halifax to refund the rest of the money considering that would 
mean eight people would be accommodated for two nights for free and largely at Halifaxs 
expense.
I shall now deal with Miss Ns comments.
Miss N says whos responsible for the sale of the contract whether the homeowner or Firm N 
is irrelevant. I disagree. Halifax can only be held responsible under s75 if the DCS 
relationship is in place. The law is clear on this matter. And Im satisfied DCS isnt in place 
here, so Halifax cannot be held responsible. Nevertheless even if it could be shown DCS 
was in place, Im not persuaded it has treated Miss N unfairly in not refunding her 
considering the circumstances overall.
Miss N points to a well-known website that provide similar rental opportunities and says that 
firm always pay out on such disputes. We consider each set of circumstances on their own 
individual merits and I can only comment on the circumstances relevant to this dispute. I 
would add though in general terms there are a vast array of contractual arrangements in the rental market from where introducers hold full responsibility of the supply of the rental 
through to other introducers who are only responsible for the introduction and not the supply 
of the rental in anyway. So Im not persuaded by what Miss N says here.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Miss N has said, Im not persuaded 
Halifaxs position has led to Miss N losing out. Im not persuaded that the required 
relationship was made out for the issues Miss N complains about. And even if DCS was in 
place I dont think Halifax needs to do anymore considering the significant refund Miss N has 
already had. And although I disagree with Halifaxs consideration of chargeback, due to the 
circumstances here Im not persuaded it needs to do anymore.
Accordingly on balance Im not persuaded Miss Ns complaint should succeed. I appreciate 
this isnt the decision which Miss N wishes to read. And I appreciate shes disappointed with 
the accommodation she received. But I dont think Halifax needs to do more considering 
everything thats happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman