DRN-2595030
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) didnt give him a pro-rata refund of a 
permission to let fee when he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
In 2014 Mr J asked BOI for permission to let his property out as he was working overseas. 
BOI approved this request after Mr J completed the relevant application form entitled 
Application for permission to let out a residential property. 
BOI have said the cost for this arrangement was a £100 administration fee and an annual 
fee of £199. Mr J kept this arrangement going for a number of years. 
In October 2020 Mr J redeemed his mortgage. He was later unhappy as hed expected to 
receive a pro-rata refund of the annual permission to let fee which hed most recently paid in 
April 2020.
Mr J complained to BOI but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said that they do not offer 
pro-rata refunds on this fee and details of fees are sent each year with the mortgage 
statement. Remaining unhappy, Mr J referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He found that BOI had 
treated Mr J fairly and didnt recommend that a pro-rata refund needed to be paid. Mr J didnt 
accept the investigators findings and the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr J that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. 
When coming to my decision, the key considerations I will make are:
Was Mr J given sufficient information about the key terms of the permission to let 
agreement?
Has BOI acted within the terms of the permission to let agreement? And;
Has BOI treated Mr J fairly and reasonably overall?
When Mr J took out this mortgage in 2012 it was on residential mortgage terms. This means 
that the person taking out the mortgage usually lives in the property themselves and cant let 
it out to a third party without getting permission from BOI.
When Mr Js circumstances changed in 2014 he asked BOI for permission to let the property 
out. I can see on the relevant application form hes answered 2 years max as the length of 
time he wanted permission to let for. This arrangement then continued until 2020  with Mr J 
paying the £199 annual fee (the fee). I consider it fair and positive that BOI allowed Mr J 
permission to continue this arrangement for a number of years. I say this because, often but 
not always, a permission to let arrangement will only be for a short length of time - up to two 
years. In this case, if Mr J wanted to continue letting out the property after the initial two-year 
period ended, his likely options to do so wouldve been to either pay off the mortgage, switch 
to a buy to let mortgage or continue paying the fee. 
Ive carefully considered the available literature relevant to the permission to let 
arrangement. In the breakdown of charges or potential charges related to the mortgage - 
which Im satisfied Mr J has seen (as hes provided us with a copy), it is stated:
If you want to let your property but dont have a buy to let mortgage, youll pay this for each 
consent to let agreement, where we agree to you letting out your property for a set period 
within your existing owner-occupier mortgage. 
The cost is set out as: £100 administration fee, plus £199 annual fee.
So Im satisfied that Mr J was made aware of the cost of the arrangement and the key terms. 
The fee was £199 annually - whether Mr J decided to only let the property for 6 months or for 
the full 12 months. 
I agree with Mr J that it doesnt state that there will not be a pro-rata refund if the mortgage is 
redeemed early or Mr J decided he no longer wanted to let out his property. But this doesnt 
mean that BOI have deliberately mislead Mr J or not given him important information that he 
needed. I say this because the terms state that the charge is for each set period. Mr J had 
paid the yearly fee from 2014 and there was no indication to BOI in April 2020 that he 
wouldnt be utilising the permission to let arrangement for the following 12 months. So I dont 
think BOI have done anything wrong here. 
Whilst Im mainly looking at the most recent payment of the annual charge in 2020, Ive also 
noted that Mr J was sent a letter confirming the initial permission to let in April 2014. In it BOI 
stated:
Please advise us immediately if you cease letting your property. We will be writing to you on 
the anniversary of this letter to remind you of the annual tenancy. And: Should you have 
any queries regarding this matter, please do not hesitate to contact us on the number below, 
quoting the mortgage account number.
So overall Im satisfied that Mr J was made aware of what he was agreeing to and given the 
opportunity to query anything if he wasnt sure. In any case, I wouldnt reasonably expect 
every single term covering every eventuality to be covered off. I also wouldnt reasonably 
expect BOI to have stated that there wouldnt be a pro-rata refund. I say this because, in this 
case, I think it reasonable for BOI to assume that if Mr J was entering into this yearly 
arrangement then its for the full period of 12 months unless he let them know otherwise. So 
I dont think BOI have done anything wrong in this case. If Mr J assumed hed receive a pro-rata refund and this was important to him when making 
the decision to redeem his mortgage, he couldve queried this with BOI before redeeming 
the mortgage if he was unsure. At that point he couldve either delayed the redemption of the 
mortgage until the permission to let agreement had finished, or decided to go ahead knowing 
he wouldnt receive as pro-rata refund of the fee.
It was Mr Js own decision to redeem the mortgage in 2020 having benefited from the 
permission to let arrangement for a number of years - rather than switching to a buy to let 
mortgage. Mr J had the freedom throughout his mortgage to shop around for a better deal if 
he wanted - not withstanding possible early redemption charges or other fees. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Mr J responded with information including 
reference to a football club and their season ticket and membership terms. He also referred 
to hypothetical situations where he redeemed the mortgage earlier. In my opinion, neither of 
these are relevant to my decision here - rather what information Mr J was given by BOI, what 
the terms said and what actually happened in this specific case. I say this because Im 
considering the actions of a bank in relation to a permission to let agreement and what 
happened here - not a football club in relation to ticket sales. It wouldnt be a fair, reasonable 
or safe comparison for me to make. 
In summary, overall I find that BOI gave Mr J the key information he needed before he 
decided to enter the permission to let agreement, have acted inline with the and treated 
Mr J fairly and reasonably throughout. I dont require BOI to make any pro-rata refund to 
Mr J here.
Although disappointing for Mr J, my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with BOI  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman