DRN-4085491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has turned 
down a claim they made on a private medical insurance policy and that it applied an  
exclusion to the contract.
As Mrs G brought the complaint, for ease, Ill refer mainly to her throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Im not going repeat this 
in detail here. Instead, Ive set out what I consider to be the key issues.
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs G took out a personal private medical insurance policy. At 
the time of sale, Mrs G answered medical underwriting questions on behalf of both her and 
Mr G. The policy began on 27 December 2020.
Subsequently, in March 2022, Mrs G noticed swelling over the dorsal section of her left foot, 
along with pressure symptoms and neuropathic pain in the same part of her foot. Following 
x-rays and an MRI scan, Mrs G was diagnosed with a Lisfranc fracture and her treating 
doctor recommended surgery. So Mrs G made a claim on the policy for her medical costs.
CIGNA considered Mrs Gs medical records and consultants reports. It noted that Mrs G 
had been suffering from left midfoot pain and instability for around four years. It considered 
that Mrs G should have disclosed this to it when she took out the policy. CIGNA said that 
had she done so, it would have applied an exclusion to the policy for any disease or disorder 
of the left foot and any complications arising therein. So it declined Mrs Gs claim and 
retrospectively applied the exclusion to Mrs Gs policy.
Mrs G was unhappy with CIGNAs decision. Briefly, she acknowledged that shed seen a GP 
and undergone x-rays in 2018 for discomfort and pain she was experiencing in both feet. 
However, no bony normality or arthropathic features were found. She hadnt been diagnosed 
with a medical condition and so she didnt think there was anything she needed to disclose. 
She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that Mrs G had sought to mislead CIGNA about her health deliberately. But she thought that 
Mrs G had answered clear questions incorrectly. So she thought Mrs G had made a careless 
misrepresentation to CIGNA about her health. And she was satisfied, based on the evidence 
CIGNA had provided, that if Mrs G had told it about her previous foot problems, it wouldve 
applied the left foot exclusion to her policy. She concluded that CIGNA had correctly 
declined the claim and applied the exclusion in line with the remedies available to it under 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mrs G disagreed and she provided detailed responses to our investigator. Ive summarised 
these responses below:
She felt that CIGNA had applied an exclusion to her policy without proper 
investigation, or regard for the facts;
CIGNA had breached its own complaints policy and hadnt responded to the 
complaint within its own timescales and hadnt presented us with all of the facts 
which were available at the time;
CIGNA had failed to fully explain its rationale for applying the exclusion, simply 
saying that Mrs G should have been aware of a pre-existing condition and therefore 
answered yes to its questions;
Mrs Gs treating consultant had contacted CIGNA to express their support for Mrs 
Gs position, but CIGNA had maintained its stance;
Mrs G referred to CIGNAs definition of a pre-existing condition. In 2018, when shed 
sought medical advice for her feet, she was advised that their structure was normal, 
No condition or injury had been diagnosed;
The swelling over cuniform bones which had been noted in 2018 and bone 
prominence werent linked to any disease or injury. And the x-rays taken at the time 
confirmed that there was no disease or injury. Swelling over the cuniform bones isnt 
linked by any clinicians to a Musculo-skeletal (MSK) condition. There was no 
evidence that the pain felt at the time of the initial assessment was anything more 
than the response to swelling. Mrs G didnt think this could reasonably be defined as 
a MSK condition.
The treating consultants notes show that at the time of consultation, Mrs G had been 
presenting with pressure symptoms and a subtle change in her foot shape over the 
previous six months. This meant the symptoms werent relevant to any required 
disclosure in 2020, as theyd only occurred after December 2021;
Mrs G didnt think she had answered CIGNAs screening questions incorrectly. As 
she didnt and couldnt have known that she had a disease, condition or injury, she 
could not have declared anything in relation to CIGNAs questions;
CIGNA had assumed that Mrs G had had symptoms between 2018 and 2022, but 
this was incorrect. It had been disproven by the consultants clinic notes, which said 
that shed presented with a subtle change in her left foot shape for the past six 
months;
Both CIGNA and the investigator had relied on the consultants comments relating to 
a four-year history of left foot pain and instability, but hadnt sought clarification;
In 2018, Mrs G had seen a GP for pain in both feet. But CIGNA had only applied an 
exclusion for her left foot. So she felt this showed that CIGNA didnt think the 
symptoms noted on her right foot were a pre-existing medical condition, even though 
the symptoms were the same as on her left foot;
She considered that if CIGNA hadnt applied an exclusion for her right foot, it 
shouldnt have done so for her left foot either;
She believed CIGNA had made a catalogue of assumptions which contradicted the 
facts and which wouldnt stand up to the rule of law;
Mrs G felt the investigator hadnt acted impartially and had shown unfair bias to 
CIGNA. She didnt think the investigator had provided any evidence from CIGNA which justified its position;
Mrs G said there had been factual inaccuracies in the investigators assessment 
which had compounded the assumptions which had been made;
She considered that the investigator had wrongly relied on the word symptoms 
when considering what a pre-existing condition was and that it shouldnt have been 
isolated from the rest of the sentence. Her symptoms had been transitory in nature 
and so it had been reasonable for her to conclude that these symptoms couldnt be 
linked to a disease, illness or injury;
Mrs G compared other situations where a consumer may have visited a GP with 
minor symptoms and then some years later, be diagnosed with a much more serious 
condition. She questioned whether this situation would be classed as a pre-existing 
condition;
She did not agree that a one-off visit to a GP in 2018 with pain and swelling could 
reasonably be defined as a symptom linked to any disease, injury or condition. So 
she didnt agree that shed been careless in her answers to CIGNA.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 March 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought 
CIGNA hadnt treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mrs G that whilst Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us in my own words, Ive carefully, independently and 
impartially considered all shes said and sent us. Within this decision though, I havent 
commented on each point Mrs G has made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's also important I make it clear that we arent a court of law and we are an informal service. 
I make decisions based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, based on, amongst other things, relevant law, available evidence and good 
industry practice.
When Mrs G took out the policy by phone, she was asked information about herself and Mr 
G and their medical conditions. CIGNA used this information to decide whether or not to 
insure Mrs and Mr G and if so, on what terms. CIGNA says that Mrs G didnt correctly 
answer the questions she was asked during the medical screening. This means the 
principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these 
principles to the circumstances of Mrs Gs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information.
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were.
During the medical screening call, Mrs G was asked medical screening questions. Ive 
referred to the two questions which I think are most relevant below:
Q1 Has any applicant had symptoms of, been diagnosed with or had treatment for Cancer 
or Tumour; Heart Condition; Stroke, Brain or Neurological Disorders; Diabetes; Hepatitis or any Musculo-skeletal condition?
Q5 Does anyone have any illness, condition or symptom not already mentioned? Please 
include details of any known or suspected issues whether or not medical advice has been 
sought or a diagnosis reached? (Emphasis added).
Ive carefully listened to the call between Mrs G and CIGNAs call handler. In my view, the 
call handler did ask Mrs G the above questions in an understandable way. I also think these 
questions are drafted clearly and explain the information CIGNA wanted to know. Im 
satisfied that Mrs G appeared to understand what was being asked of her about her medical 
conditions. And I think, if Mrs G hadnt understood what was being asked of her, it was open 
to her to query this with CIGNA.
CIGNA maintains that Mrs G ought to have declared a four-year history of foot pain and 
instability. So Ive looked at the available medical evidence and thought about what shes 
told us about her understanding of her health, to decide whether I think she took reasonable 
care to answer CIGNAs questions.
It's common ground that Mrs G saw her GP in August 2018. Ive looked carefully at the GPs 
records of that consultation, dated 10 August 2018. This says:
Foot pain (first)  
Hx (history) more than six months (history) of pain over dorsum of both feet, with numbness 
of the toes after walking for few minutes.
Has swelling as well over the cuniform bones bilaterally which she thinks is getting bigger.
Mentioned long history of numbness of left fourth toe.
The GP referred Mrs G for an x-ray. This appears to have taken place on 22 August 2018.
The GP notes state:
XR -left foot
Swelling over the dorsal surface of the foot over the cuniform bones, had it for more than six 
months.
No underlying bony abnormality seen. No arthropathic features.
An identical finding was made for Mrs Gs left foot.
Mrs G appears to have had a second appointment with the GP, which discussed her feet, 
along with another medical issue. The GP notes say that on 4 September 2018, Mrs G had: 
foot pain  new
X-ray normal
(Patient) is having numbness in toes after walking for half an hour
Shape of feet changed due to bone prominence.
Will refer to podiatry as she may need special support.
Its clear that in August and September 2018, Mrs G wasnt diagnosed with a particular 
named injury, disease or condition. The x-rays made no finding of bone abnormality or of 
arthritis. Neither is there any suggestion that Mrs G had a Lisfranc fracture at that point.
What the notes do suggest though is that following the x-ray, Mrs G had continued to 
experience symptoms of numbness in her toes upon walking for half an hour and that the shape of her feet had changed due to bone prominence.
Theres no indication that Mrs G sought further medical attention for these symptoms 
between 2018 and 2022. So Ive gone to on consider the available medical evidence from 
around the time Mrs G sought medical attention in March 2022, to consider whether theres 
any indication that these symptoms continued.
In March 2022, Mrs Gs treating consultant stated in a letter:
Four years ago, she noticed some change in her left foot shape, does not recollect any 
significant trauma and ever since, a gradual lump overlying the dorsal aspect of her midfoot. 
More lately, a similar swelling over the dorsal-lateral aspect of her ankle
In May 2022, the consultant found that Mrs G was now presenting with a subtle change in 
her left foot shape, for the last six months or so
Following further follow-up, again in May 2022, the consultant said: (Mrs G) presents with 
four year history of left midfoot pain and instability.
Theres no suggestion in the consultants records that Mrs G had been diagnosed with a 
specific condition or illness prior to her diagnosis with a Lisfranc fracture. But what the notes 
do appear to show is that Mrs G had a four year history of left foot pain and instability  
which ties in with her previous consultations in 2018. It also ties-in with the previous changes 
Mrs G had noted in her foot shape in 2018, along with a lump overlying the dorsum of her 
left foot. This correlates with the GPs 2018 record of dorsal swelling.
On the basis of the available medical evidence, it does seem more likely than not that Mrs G 
had continued to experience at least some foot pain after 2018, along with instability, 
together with a dorsal lump or swelling. As such, on balance, I think the evidence points to 
Mrs G having suffered symptoms of a foot condition since 2018, even though she couldnt 
have known the cause.
Mrs Gs consultant wrote an email in support of her claim and Ive considered this carefully. 
They said:
While I appreciate the clause used for exclusion by CIGNA is entirely in keeping with your 
policy, I feel in this particular case of Ms G grossly misplaced.
It is not unusual for patients to present with a complement of symptoms in medical history to 
predate their condition and which may or may not be relevant to their diagnosis.
To my knowledge this far there does not seem to be any evidence of her foot condition being 
previously diagnosed for you to suggest this should have been declared by Ms G.
This email makes it very clear that Mrs Gs condition hadnt been previously diagnosed. I 
accept she couldnt have disclosed a condition she wasnt aware of. But neither of the 
screening questions Ive set out above require a policyholder to only declare existing
diagnoses or injury. Instead, question 1 asks whether the applicant has had symptoms of 
any MSK condition. And question 5 asks whether anyone has a symptom not already 
mentioned and asked applicants to provide details of any known or suspected issues, even if 
a diagnosis hasnt been made.As Ive explained above, the medical evidence indicates, on balance, that Mrs G had likely 
been experiencing some symptoms in her left foot for over two years at the time she took out 
the policy. And some of those symptoms appear to have matched with the symptoms shed 
exhibited in 2018.
On the basis of the available evidence then, I dont think I could safely or fairly conclude that 
Mrs G wasnt aware of at least some symptoms in her left foot at the time she went through 
medical screening. These seem to have been ongoing for over two years at the time of 
underwriting. And while no diagnosis had been made, Mrs G had had x-rays and seemingly 
was referred to podiatry. So it follows that I think, given the above, that Mrs G shouldve told 
CIGNA about her foot symptoms. I think its clear Mrs Gs symptoms of foot pain did fall 
within the scope of CIGNAs questions. Considering everything, I think those questions were 
clear enough that Mrs G shouldve been prompted to tell CIGNA what it wanted to know.
Overall, I think the available evidence suggests that Mrs G did make a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think CIGNA is reasonably entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under the Act. CIGNA considers Mrs Gs misrepresentation 
was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. I think this was a fair conclusion for CIGNA 
to reach. I dont think Mrs G intended to mislead CIGNA  but it seems she didnt take 
enough care to ensure she answered its questions correctly.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, that an insurer is entitled to rewrite the 
policy as if it had all of the information it wanted to know at the outset. If it would still have 
offered insurance, but on different terms, its entitled to retrospectively apply any relevant 
exclusions or other terms.
In this case, CIGNA says that if Mrs G had disclosed her foot symptoms, it would have 
excluded cover for her left foot. Its provided underwriting guidance which supports its 
position. While I appreciate that Mrs G may like to see this guidance, Im afraid that I cant 
share it with her. Thats because its commercially sensitive and therefore, its confidential. 
However, I do hope it reassures Mrs G to know that someone has independently and 
impartially reviewed this information. Id add too, that based on the underwriting guidance, 
Im satisfied that CIGNA has shown that it would have treated anyone in Mrs Gs position in 
the same way. So I dont find its treated her unfairly or singled her out in any way.
Based on the available evidence, I think it was fair and reasonable for CIGNA to apply an 
exclusion for Mrs Gs left foot to her policy and to decline to pay her claim. I find its actions 
are in line with CIDRA.
Mrs G has questioned why CIGNA didnt apply a similar exclusion for her right foot. It 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to speculate on CIGNAs decision in this regard here. But it 
seems to me that CIGNA is still able to consider claims for Mrs Gs right foot in the future, 
should they be necessary.
Im mindful that CIGNA didnt respond to Mrs Gs complaint within the regulators 
timeframes. I dont doubt this caused her additional frustration. However, Mrs G was able to 
bring her complaint to us, irrespective of any regulatory failing on CIGNAs part. So I dont 
think it would be appropriate for me to make any compensatory award here.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Gs position and Im aware that my provisional decision 
will come as a disappointment to her, I currently dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could direct CIGNA to remove the exclusion and pay this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to consider.
CIGNA had nothing to add.
Mr and Mrs G didnt reply by the deadline I gave, despite our investigator checking whether 
they wanted to provide anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further substantive evidence, or 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman