DRN-3841114
The complaint
B Ltd, represented by Ms D, complained because Santander UK plc refused to return all the 
direct debit payments it had made to a beneficiary.
B Ltd wants a refund for all direct debits paid, and compensation from Santander because it 
says Santander didnt honour the direct debit guarantee.
What happened
On 11 March 2022, Ms D emailed Santander and asked it to recall all direct debits to a 
payee, which Ill call P, as far back as possible. She said B Ltd had had an issue with its 
previous accountant. She said she believed the accountant had sold B Ltds account details 
to other businesses, and had run direct debits that werent B Ltds. She said shed been told 
the accountant was under police investigation. Ms D asked Santander for a refund under the 
direct debit guarantee, and asked if this was going back six years.
On 15 March, Santanders business servicing team returned all the direct debits to P as far 
back as 7 April 2021. Its adviser told Ms D that she hadnt been able to go further back and 
shed queried this with Santanders direct debit team, to ask whether she could refund the 
direct debits to P going back over the last six years.
Ms D said shed ideally like all the direct debits to P refunded, not just for the last six years.
But Santanders direct debit technical team said that a police investigation wasnt a valid 
reason for a direct debit guarantee claim to be paid. In its final response to B Ltds complaint, 
Santander said that there are certain conditions that must be meet for a direct debit claim to 
be raised under the Direct Debit Guarantee. An guarantee claim can only be raised where 
there has been an error at the time of the direct debit collection. Santander explained that 
the direct debit guarantee cant be used to settle a contractual dispute.
Ms D said that B Ltd wasnt claiming a contractual dispute, as B Ltd didnt have a contract 
with P  so there hadnt been any authority for the direct debit to have been set up. 
Santander replied that the direct debit to P had been set up in March 2014 and had been 
active for the eight years since then. Sometimes payments had been taken multiple times 
each month. So it said P would have sufficient evidence to challenge any direct debit 
guarantee claim, because it could demonstrate a contract through a signed direct debit 
mandate. Santander advised B Ltd to contact P to resolve the matter directly with them.
B Ltd wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Ms D said B Ltd wanted a full refund of 
all direct debits paid to P, plus compensation from Santander because it hadnt honoured the 
direct debit guarantee. She said P had refused to discuss it because of data protection.
Our investigator didnt uphold B Ltds complaint. She said that she thought Santander had 
acted fairly, because it had refunded payments for about a year. It had also referred the 
matter to its specialist team, and it had fairly considered B Ltds request. The investigator 
also said that a police investigation wasnt a reason for a direct debit claim. And she 
explained that the direct debit guarantee scheme isnt designed to deal with contractual 
disputes between a customer and the originator of a direct debit. Its purpose is to provide a 
full and immediate refund where what has happened is that the originator, or the bank or 
building society, has made an error in the payment.
B Ltd, represented by Ms D, wasnt satisfied. Ms D sent a number of emails. In summary, 
she said that:
- The direct debit guarantee claim doesnt have a time limit and the complaint wasnt 
about fairness. Shed raised the complaint as an unrecognised direct debit, and B Ltd 
was covered for that under the direct debit guarantee;
- It wasnt a contractual dispute as Santander had said, because Ms D had no 
knowledge or contract with P;
- She said the direct debit guarantee entitled her to a full refund of direct debits 
because she didnt recognise the direct debit claimer, P;
- If B Ltd wasnt protected by the direct debit guarantee, there was no point in the 
guarantee at all;
- Santander had admitted the claim by giving B Ltd a refund for a year;
- Santander had refunded her for a claim shed made about another organisation.
Ms D said that the questions she wanted answering were:
- Why had Santander had given her a refund on another disputed transaction for four 
years;
- Why had it decided only to pay for a year for P, and where in the guarantee did it say 
that the bank gets to decide how much it would refund; 
- She asked whether the investigator was suggesting that because of the duration, Ms 
D was committing fraud;
- She said it was her money which had been stolen.
B Ltd, represented by Ms D, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I came to the same conclusion as our investigator, but for different reasons. So I issued a 
provisional decision, so that the parties could comment on it before the final decision.
Direct debit guarantee
First, I explained that the Direct Debit guarantee covers errors made in the processing of 
direct debit payments. It doesnt address disputes between the payer and the recipient 
organisation. On the Direct Debit website the guarantee explains that:
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare 
event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
I recognised that B Ltd had said that its complaint wasnt a contractual dispute because B 
Ltd had no contract with P. Id seen the email in which Ms D first raised her complaint with 
Santander, where she reported that B Ltd had had an issue with its previous accountant, 
whom she said had sold account details to other businesses, and shed been told there was 
a police investigation. When Santander said that this wasnt a reason for a refund under the direct debit guarantee, because the direct debit guarantee doesnt cover contractual 
disputes, Ms D replied that there wasnt a contract so it wasnt a contractual dispute.
But B Ltd was disputing that it had a contract with P, for which it paid P over eight years. 
Although Ms D didnt agree, this means its a dispute between B Ltd and P  even if thats a 
dispute about whether or not it had a contract. Its not a dispute about the mechanics of 
processing a direct debit payment, which is what the direct debit guarantee covers. The 
direct debit guarantee doesnt cover everything that an organisation can ever dispute about 
payments made using direct debits.  Instead, its for if an error is made in the payment of a 
direct debit by an organisation or bank. The examples the guarantee gives are clear that this 
is intended to deal with administrative and technical problems with direct debits rather than 
underlying disputes. So I thought Santander had acted fairly when it hasnt refunded B Ltd 
under this guarantee.
Ms D had been clear throughout that what she was claiming was a refund under the direct 
debit guarantee. I thought B Ltd was fortunate that Santander refunded a years payments. 
And I couldnt comment on a different payee, which Ms D raised in her recent 
correspondence and which wasnt the subject of her complaint to Santander and wasnt 
included in the final response letter. But in relation to the payments to P, I found that they 
werent covered under the direct debit guarantee. So Santander had no obligation to refund 
B Ltd under the direct debit guarantee.
Disputed transactions
But there was another aspect to B Ltds complaint, where Ms D was saying that B Ltd didnt 
actually authorise the transactions here. 
There are Regulations which govern disputed transactions in these circumstances. The 
Payment Services Regulations 2009 cover payments up to 12 January 2018, and the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 cover payments from 13 January 2018 onwards. So 
some of B Ltds disputed transactions fall under each of these Regulations. The regulations 
are, however, similar in relation to what B Ltd is disputing.
The Regulations set out that payments must be authenticated (the technical part, which was 
met because the payments were made under a successful direct debit mandate) and also 
that disputed transactions must have been authorised  in other words, whether B Ltd 
consented to them. In general terms, the bank is liable if a customer didnt authorise a 
disputed payment, and the customer is liable if they didnt authorised a disputed payment.
I asked both sides for more information. 
I had checked the Companies House records for B Ltd, and could see that an accountancy 
firm was registered with Companies House as Secretary for B Ltd from 2014 to 2020.  So I 
asked B Ltd whether its accountant had been an authorised signatory. Ms D replied that he 
had not been. 
I also asked Santander about the setting up of the direct debit in 2014. Santander replied 
that the direct debit mandate hadnt been sent to the bank manually but had been done 
online, and was automated with the details provided by the third party merchant. 
As Santander had said here  the direct debit was set up online and was automated with the 
details provided by the third party merchant. That meant there wasnt a paper audit trail of 
the direct debit here  but thats not unusual where direct debits are  intended to be a simple 
and convenient way of setting up payments.When Santander set up the direct debit on this automated basis, it had had no notice of any 
problems. The direct debits werent raised as a problem until 11 March 2022. I appreciated 
that thats when Ms D found out about the problems with her former accountant. But 
technically, Santander did nothing wrong here in setting up the direct debit, because from 
what Ive seen - it followed its normal procedures and processed the payments in line with 
the direct debit for a number of years. Santander was clearly provided with the details 
necessary to set up the direct debit here and whoever set this up would have needed access 
to B Ltds account information to do so. Overall, I didnt think it was likely that Santander 
would have been aware of any issues with the direct debit when it was set up. It then went 
onto make regular payments for a number of years which would have only supported the 
validity of the instruction.
What matters is how Santander dealt with B Ltds complaint when it was raised. It refunded 
B Ltd going back to 7 April 2021. I cant see that it would be fair for Santander to have to 
refund B Ltd for payments made before a problem was reported to it, when it hadnt done 
anything technically wrong. So that was much as I could fairly expect of Santander here. The 
underlying dispute between B Ltd and P is better dealt with elsewhere, whereas I can only 
consider B Ltds complaint against Santander under the rules here.
Ms Ds specific points 
Ms D raised some specific points after the investigators view, which she said she wanted 
answered. My provisional decision about the payments and my reasons are above, but for 
completeness:
- Ms D said Santander refunded her for four years of payments on another transaction. 
I cant comment on this, because the rules governing this service mean I can only 
consider the matter which B Ltd originally raised with Santander, not any other 
transaction;
- As Ive set out above, I considered B Ltd was fortunate that Santander chose to 
refund B Ltd for the payments going back to April 2021, when it didnt have to under 
the direct debit guarantee or the Payment Services Regulations.
So my provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold B Ltds complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither side responded to my provisional decision by the date set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the light of neither side having made comments in response to the 
provisional decision, I consider that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman