DRN-3439026
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a business loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1988.
What happened
Mr S took out the policy at the same time as arranging the loan. The policy covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. It was a single premium policy, meaning that the 
premium amount was added to the loan at the start and attracted interest over the term of 
the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S says he was led to believe that the PPI was a condition of getting the loan agreed. He 
says he recalls asking if he had to have it because he didnt think he needed it.
Ive no doubt that Mr S has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, the sale 
was in 1988 and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat. For 
instance, Mr S thought that the sale probably took place over the phone, when the available 
paperwork shows that it was made during a meeting in branch.
From what we known of HSBCs sales process at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case. On balance, I consider that Mr S probably decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC advised Mr S to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to him, it needed 
to ensure that it met Mr Ss needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for him.
Mr S was self-employed and therefore would not have received any employer sick pay if he 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness. Mr S has said that he had a lot of equity in 
his house at the time and that his parents would have helped him financially. But having the 
PPI would have meant that he wouldnt have needed to take any drastic steps in relation to 
his property and also that he wouldnt have needed to ask his parents for money to cover his 
loan. From what we know of the policy terms, it wouldnt have been any harder for Mr S to 
claim for unemployment than it would have been for an employed person. So it seems to me 
that Mr S had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have 
been a difficult time.
HSBC also had to provide Mr S with enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the PPI was right for him.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement. The initial cost of the premium, the total interest and 
the monthly cost of the PPI were all set out. So I think that Mr S would have known what he 
would be paying for the policy.
Mr S would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early  for 
example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable for Mr S.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provided as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been 
excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr S had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I doubt that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
So he is no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have done wrong. So there is 
nothing that HSBC needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman