DRN-3869691
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Mr H says he bid for a tractor on a well-known online marketplace. The 
advert was posted by a user who had been trading since 2006 and had 100% positive 
feedback on around 600 transactions. The seller said they preferred to complete the 
transaction on the platform to keep both parties safe but then sent Mr H an invoice which 
provided account details to transfer funds. In an earlier message the seller explained that the 
invoice would show his wifes details as she held the account. The total cost, including 
delivery of the tractor by a third-party company, was £5,475. Mr H made the transfer in July 
2022 and the seller said they would arrange for the tractor to be delivered.
When the tractor wasnt delivered Mr H became concerned and visited the address on the 
advert where he found out the seller didnt live there. Mr H contacted the marketplace, 
Monzo and the police. The online marketplace told Mr H that a fraudster had hacked a users 
account to post the advert for the tractor. 
Monzo hasnt agree to provide Mr H with a refund. It says that he didnt take enough steps to 
check who he was paying and what for. Monzo also said that the online marketplace 
provides clear guidance on how to use its platform which Mr H didnt follow. Mr H was 
unhappy with Monzos response and brought a complaint to our service.
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld, and that Mr 
H be reimbursed his full loss with interest added. He said this because he didnt think Monzo 
provided Mr H with an effective warning or that Monzo had shown Mr H didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller and the goods were genuine. The investigator also 
said the payment Mr H made was unusual and out of character so Monzo should have 
intervened when the payment request was made.
Monzo didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said:
- The seller asked for payment outside of the online marketplace, so Mr H should have 
completed more checks. This is because paying outside of the marketplace means a 
guarantee offered by the marketplace is lost. Given that Mr H has used the 
marketplace for many years he should have been aware of this. 
- The advert quoted the payment method as cash on pickup. Had Mr H used this 
payment method hed have met the seller and inspected the tractor before making a 
payment. 
- The fact that a genuine sellers account was hacked by the fraudster makes no 
difference as Mr H paid for the tractor outside of the marketplace and without viewing 
the vehicle. 
- The seller claimed delivery was delayed because a family member was in hospital. 
This scenario is one the online marketplace warns about. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ive considered whether Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mr H lost in line 
with the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM 
Code (CRM Code) it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to 
protect Mr H from the possibility of financial harm from fraud
 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
which I have set out below:
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate.
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case.
It is for Monzo to establish that it can rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement set out 
in the CRM Code. In this case Monzo say Mr H ignored an effective warning it gave during 
the payment journey and that he made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods 
or services and/or the person or business he was transacting with was legitimate
Did Mr H have a reasonable basis for believing the payment he made was legitimate?
I consider the reviews and ratings Mr H saw would have given him a sense of security that 
he was dealing with someone he could trust. Of course, this was the exact intention of the 
scammer. Given the feedback, the photographs Mr H saw of the tractor from different angles 
and his previous experience of buying things on the marketplace without any issues, Mr H 
felt that he didnt need to view the tractor. With the benefit of hindsight, I agree that it would 
have been better if he had viewed it, particularly given the distance between Mr Hs address 
and the address on the advert wasnt too significant. But I can understand why Mr H felt 
confident that he was dealing with a genuine user.
  
Most of Monzos response to the investigators view centred around the fact Mr H paid the 
seller outside of the marketplace and so is not covered by the guarantee offered by the 
marketplace. But in the ways to pay section of the marketplaces website it says that 
cheques, money orders and bank transfers arent allowed for most purchases but can be 
used to buy vehicles. I think a tractor falls into this category. The money back guarantee 
offered by the marketplace also doesnt cover vehicles. So I dont consider Monzo acted 
reasonably in using Mr Hs payment method as a reason not to reimburse him under the CRM Code. I can also understand why Mr H was uncomfortable carrying such a large 
amount of cash. 
In any event, I dont believe Mr H recognised that he was being asked to pay outside of the 
marketplace. This is because the messages he received about payment and the invoice 
itself are fakes that appear to have been sent by the marketplace.
Monzo referred in its submission to this service to the fact that Mr H had failed to notice that 
he received communications from different users, and this should have been a red flag to 
him. But Mr H explained that the seller told him the invoice would come from his wife. So I 
dont consider Mr H ought reasonably to have thought anything was amiss. 
As the seller gave Mr H excuses about why the tractor wasnt delivered after hed made the 
payment, I dont think this point of Monzos has any bearing on Mr Hs reasonable basis of 
belief at the time he made the transfer. 
After carefully considering Monzos representations about whether Mr H had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine, Im not persuaded Monzo can fairly choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Did Mr H ignore an effective warning?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment (APP) scam risks in 
a payment journey, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. This should 
include appropriate actions for the consumer to take to protect themselves from scams like 
the one Mr H has fallen victim to.
Monzo has explained that it provided Mr H with a warning that said, 
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if
X You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment or to take out a 
loan
X The offer sounds too good to be true
X You havent double-checked who youre paying
X You were told to ignore warnings like this
The warning went on to say that Mr H may lose his money if hes been scammed. 
Im not satisfied this warning meets the definition of an effective warning as set out in the 
CRM Code. The warning highlights multiple potential scams and doesnt bring to life what a 
purchase scam like the one Mr H fell victim to looks like, or highlight the common features of 
this type of scam.
Given that Im not satisfied the warning Monzo gave Mr H was effective it follows that he 
didnt ignore an effective warning and so Monzo cannot reasonably rely on this exception to 
reimbursement.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr H? 
Im also mindful that when Mr H made these payments, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payment Mr H made was unusual or suspicious. Monzo has provided statements for Mr Hs account from January 2022. These show a 
limited number of transactions and a largest single payment before the scam transaction of 
under £500. In the circumstances, I think Monzo ought reasonably to have flagged Mr Hs 
payment of £5,475 to a new payee and asked him questions about the reason for payment. 
Had Monzo have done so, I think its likely Mr Hs loss could have been avoided if Monzo 
provided warnings and stressed the importance of viewing the tractor before making a 
payment. The relevance of this point is that interest should be paid from the date of 
payment. 
Recovery 
Ive also considered whether Monzo could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Monzo has shown that it contacted the 
receiving bank as soon as the scam was reported so I dont think it could have done 
anything more to recover Mr Hs funds.
Interest
Mr H transferred funds into his Monzo account from an account with another bank just 
before the scam transfer. So I think that were it not for the scam Mr H would have left the 
funds in the account with another bank. For this reason, Monzo should pay interest on the 
amount refunded at the rate that applied to the account the funds were transferred from. 
Interest is payable from the date of payment because Ive concluded that Monzo could have 
prevented the loss. 
Overall
Im not persuaded Monzo has demonstrated that it may rely on any of the exceptions to 
reimbursement in the CRM Code.
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund Mr H the £5,475 he lost as a result of this scam. 
- Pay interest on this amount at the rate set out above from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman