DRN-2136418
The complaint
Miss G says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997 in one of the banks 
branches. The policy gave Miss G protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss G says she felt pressured to take the PPI, she was told it would ensure her credit card 
application was approved. I cant know what was said during the meeting, but Ive looked at 
the available paperwork from the sale. On Miss Gs credit card application PPI was listed in 
a section headed Optional Features. And it was selected on the form Miss G signed 
indicating that she wanted it. Ive thought carefully about Miss Gs comments, but I also have 
to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. 
On balance, I think its most likely Lloyds made Miss G aware the PPI was optional, and she 
agreed to take it out. And I havent found enough evidence to support her claim that she was 
pressured to do so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss G. This means Lloyds had to make sure it was
right for her. And based on what I know of her circumstances at the time I think it was. 
Miss G told us she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for 
all successful accident and sickness claims. It also gave her 12 months redundancy cover.
This would have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from her
employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. So, overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve been useful to Miss G if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. However, it seems she wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations. And the policy was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered. Miss G says she 
told the adviser she couldnt afford it, but I havent seen any other evidence that it was 
unaffordable for her. So I think it unlikely Miss G wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G. But Lloyds
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because:
- Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) so it should have told Miss G about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss G, that
was unfair.
- To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank
PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman