DRN-2330020
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly restricted and then closed 
his current account with immediate effect. 
What happened
Following a review, Barclays blocked Mr As current account on 5 November 2019. Mr A 
went to a Barclays branch a few days later to question Barclays actions and, in the process, 
withdrew some money from his account. A few days after this Mr A, in accordance with the 
restrictions placed on the account, withdrew his remaining balance. 
Unhappy about what had happened, Mr A complained to Barclays. 
Barclays called Mr A and questioned him about a £2,000 payment that had been credited to 
his account on 21 October 2019. Mr A explained that it was a payment from his cousin to 
book a holiday together. 
The funds to Mr A were not sent to him from his cousins account  but a third party. Mr A 
says this third-party owed his cousin money, which was sent, as way of redirection, to him 
for the holiday. 
Mr A said he told his cousin the amount was too much and so he sent half of it to his 
cousins account. A few days later Mr A sent the remaining £1,000 to his cousin.  
Barclays then sent Mr A its final response to the complaint he had raised. 
On 22 November 2019, Barclays sent Mr A a letter explaining that it was closing his account 
with immediate effect. Barclays added that it regularly reviews accounts and was taking this 
action in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with Barclays final response and the outcome, Mr A referred his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. And with agreement from Barclays, they 
told Mr A the third party whos account the £2,000 had been sent from, had claimed that the 
transfer had been sent fraudulently. 
Mr A explained the police had investigated the fraud matter and subsequently he and his 
cousin had been vindicated of any wrongdoing. To support what he was saying, Mr A sent 
us a letter from the police officer who had investigated the matter for us to consider.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. In summary they said: 
Barclays fraud report showed the owner of the account from which the £2,000 was 
paid didnt recognise the payment, and Mr A wasnt entitled to the funds. Because of 
this, Barclays blocked Mr As account whilst it investigated;
The fraud claim wasnt retracted as Mr A had suggested;
The beneficiarys name for the £2,000 transfer was a completely different name to 
Mr A;
Mr A was unable to provide any evidence that he and his cousin were planning a 
holiday at that time nor that the third-party account holder owed his cousin money;
The letter from the Police didnt show Mr A was entitled to the remitters funds. 
Barclays had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And, as Mr A 
was the beneficiary of fraudulent funds, Barclays had not done anything wrong by 
ending the banking relationship with immediate effect 
Mr A was unhappy with what our investigator said. Ive summarised some of the key points 
he made in response: 
Our investigator didnt ask the police officer for further information in relation to the 
investigation that had been conducted;
The evidence he had presented proved the allegation of fraud was false;
Barclays are aware of the police officers findings;
He questioned why the investigator hadnt asked the police officer for their findings;
He doesnt have any information on the holiday booking as it was over a year ago.  
We should have asked him about this when he bought the complaint to the service, 
not over a year later
In response our investigator added the following points: 
The police officer had confirmed an investigation into Mr As account wasnt 
conducted; 
Mr A still hadnt given a reason why the recipients name on the payment was 
different to his name.
Mr A requested a final decision from an ombudsman. So, his complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I rang Mr A and he asked me to take into account some further points. He has said that our 
investigator hasnt placed enough weight on the police officers letter or followed up on the 
police investigation to reach a fair outcome for his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the much the 
same reasons. 
I note how strongly Mr A feels about his complaint, and that this will disappoint him. So Ill 
explain why. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr A had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are, and 
when Barclays can close it immediately. It is well known to both parties that the person from whose account the £2,000 payment was 
made raised a fraud claim, saying they didnt make the payment. Mr A was then questioned 
about the payment by Barclays and his account was later closed with immediate notice. 
Given the information presented to Barclays at that time and having looked at the wording of 
the applicable terms, I cant say Barclays acted unfairly in closing Mr As account with 
immediate effect. I understand its concern and why it wasnt satisfied by what Mr A had said. 
I find the payee reference unusual, and it doesnt tie in with Mr A saying the account holder 
agreed to pay him.
So it follows that Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close the account in the way that it 
has done at the time it made its decision to do so. 
Mr A has said that the account holder later retracted his fraudulent claim and that a police 
investigation exonerated him and his cousin from any wrongdoing. And I know Mr A feels 
particularly strongly about this service not putting enough weight on the evidence from the 
police officer. 
But, firstly, I havent seen anything to show the fraud claim was retracted. And in any case, I 
must consider if Barclays acted in accordance with its terms and conditions at the time it 
decided to close the account. And I find based on the information it had at the time, it did 
reasonably apply the account terms to close the account. 
Id like to assure Mr A that I have thought very carefully about what he has told me in relation 
to the police investigation. But Im not persuaded the information the police have provided 
tallies with what he says they concluded. But even if it did, the investigation was concluded 
after the fact, and Barclays couldnt have taken it into account when deciding to close his 
account.
I note Mr A says the entire matter caused him substantive trouble given he was soon to 
married. Though I can understand and empathise with this, Im not persuaded Barclays have 
done anything wrong. So it stands that I dont think Barclays needs to compensate Mr A for 
the trouble and upset he says it caused him. 
So it follows that Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close the account in the way that it 
did. I wont be upholding Mr As complaint, as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Ombudsman