DRN-3415835
The complaint
Mr H complains that the value of his Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plan held with Zurich Assurance Ltd had reduced to zero, and hadnt been told this 
was the case.
Although the FSAVC was originally taken out with Allied Dunbar Assurance PLC, Zurich are 
the business currently responsible for administering the plan. So for clarity Ill refer to Zurich 
throughout.
What happened
In July 1994 Mr H took out an FSAVC to increase his future pension provision. He was 30 
years old at the time and said he wished to retire and take the benefits when he was 55.
He made monthly contributions into the plan up to February 1997 totalling £1,089.24. But he 
wasnt able to afford to continue making the payments, so they ceased.
In June 2021 Mr H contacted Zurich to ask about his pension fund. He was told that the 
charges associated with the plan had meant that its value had reduced to zero. He 
complained that when hed decided to stop making the contributions hed been told the plan 
would be frozen so there wouldnt be any ongoing charges. And he thought it unfair that 
hed put in over £1,000 and would get nothing back. He was also concerned that Zurich 
hadnt contacted him sooner. He said although hed got divorced, moved and had had a 
house fire, he wasnt difficult to find and couldve been contacted at any time.
In its final response letter Zurich didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it had continued to 
make monthly charge deductions from the fund value after hed stopped making 
contributions. And although his fund had remained invested, the 3.5% charges associated 
with the plan meant it lapsed without value on 1 June 2018. It said it wrote to him at the 
address it had on record, informing him of this. 
Zurich also said it had sent Mr H annual statements showing the value of his plan with an 
illustration of the projected benefits at age 55. It said it had also written to him in August 
2011 informing him that because he wasnt making any contributions, the value of the plan 
would only increase if the investments grew by more than the charges it was deducting.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome so complained to our Service. But when our 
investigator had considered everything, she didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong. 
She didnt think it was likely that Zurich had agreed to freeze his account and not apply any 
ongoing charges. And she thought the level of charges were clearly laid out in the 
documentation Mr H had been given when the plan commenced. So she didnt think Zurich 
had done anything wrong in deducting the charges which, given Mr H hadnt made any 
contributions since February 1997, eventually reduced the value of the plan to zero in June 
2018.
She also thought that although Mr H had said he hadnt received anything from Zurich since 
the mid-1990s, she didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong here. He had told her that 
since his divorce 20 years ago hed lived at various addresses, and had never let Zurich 
know hed moved. So she thought Zurich was reasonable in sending its letters to the 
address that it had on file for him.
But Mr H didnt agree. He said hed never signed a contract with Zurich, and its attempts to 
track him down had been pitiful, so he asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this is a matter of principle to Mr H, and I fully appreciate that he expects the 
contributions he made to the plan, totalling £1,089.24, to be worth something now. But 
having assessed the evidence Im afraid I dont agree. I think Zurich have acted fairly and I 
dont require them to do anything further. Ill explain.
Mr H took out the FSAVC plan in 1994 and commenced monthly payments. This was a plan 
which was intended to run continuously until at least aged 55, with level monthly 
contributions. The fund would then be used to buy a retirement income in the form of an 
annuity. 
Ive looked closely at the policy provisions for this plan. The way that this FSAVC worked 
was that Mr Hs contributions in the initial two years of the plan were used by Zurich to 
purchase Capital units. These Capital units incurred a 3.5% charge over the entire 
duration of the plan. They also incur the % charge which is levied on any Accumulation 
units which are those that are purchased after the initial two years. So the Capital units are 
subjected to relatively high charges compared to those that are purchased after the initial 
two years. This means they grow at a lesser rate. 
From the dates that Mr H was making his contributions, I can see that the majority of the 
units purchased within his plan were Capital units so were subjected to the higher rate of 
charges. I understand that Mr H believes he was told that his plan would freeze and he 
understood this to mean that no further charges would be levied. Given the passage of time 
there is no definitive evidence of what was discussed and what Mr H was told would happen. 
But I dont think, on the balance of probability, he wouldve been told that no further charges 
would be taken from his plan. I think this because Zurich still had to manage the fund, and 
this management wouldve incurred costs. And these costs get paid for by charges deducted 
from the value of the fund.
So whilst I understand Mr Hs concern, I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly in deducting the 
charges from his fund, with the resultant zero value (given the lack of additional 
contributions) in June 2018.
Mr H has complained hes not received any documentation from Zurich since the mid-90s. 
But I cant fairly say Zurich have made any errors in where it has sent letters to Mr H, 
because it has sent them to the last address hed given them. He has moved several times 
since and hasnt updated Zurich. Any business is required to keep up to date records of its 
customers details, but unless Mr H informed it of his change of address, it wouldnt have any 
reason to try and trace him another way. And Ive not seen that any letters Zurich did send to 
his old address were returned undelivered. So, I cant fairly hold Zurich responsible for failing 
to update its records to reflect Mr Hs correct address, nor for the fact that Mr H didnt 
receive the letters it sent to him. I also need to address Mr Hs assertion that hes never signed a contract with Zurich. I 
understand from this that he is referring to the fact that he initially took out the FSAVC with 
Allied Dunbar. But I dont think this makes any difference to his complaint. When Zurich took 
over responsibility for administration of the FSAVC, the terms of the plan remained exactly 
the same. So the fund reduction due to the lack of contributions, and charges imposed, 
would have occurred anyway. So whether the plan was administered by Allied Dunbar or 
Zurich is immaterial. It wouldve reduced in value to zero in the same way. And because 
Mr H wasnt aware that the administration of his policy had changed hands, Im satisfied that 
this wasnt the reason he hadnt updated his address details.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman