DRN-2085597
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Oodle Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car Finance) has 
provided a car through a hire purchase agreement that wasnt of satisfactory quality. She 
wants to reject the car. 
  
What happened
 Miss C entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle in September 2019. The car she 
got through the agreement was about six years old and had covered around 64,000 miles. 
The cash price for the car was £5,795. On top of this, there was a settlement of £2,517.70 
for an existing finance agreement for Miss C, and her old vehicle was used as a £2,000 
deposit. This meant Miss C borrowed £6,312.70 under the new hire purchase agreement. 
The agreement was to last 60 months. The car was purchased through a dealer Ill refer to 
as H.
 
Miss C told us she collected the car in early October 2019. She said she soon noticed 
problems with the cars power. The car was returned to H who arranged and paid for an 
injector to be replaced. This was at the end of October 2019. Miss C also spoke to Oodle. 
She told them she was having problems with the car. She wanted to know what her options 
were and Oodle outlined some of these.
 
Miss C said she then noticed the car was pulling to the right after having to do an emergency 
stop. This was in December 2109 in the run up to Christmas. She also said that her car was 
scratched over the holiday period and when she was looking at this, she noticed the paint at 
the front of her car didnt match the rest of it. 
In early January 2020 Miss C called Oodle to complain. She said the car was still losing 
power and she thought the car had been in a crash before she bought it. Miss C wanted to 
reject the car. She then took the car to a local body shop. While it couldnt do a full 
assessment without stripping the car down it noted, among other things, both front wings 
were kinked, and the front end needed re-aligning. It quoted Miss C £1,200 to do all the 
necessary repairs. 
A few days later Miss C took her car to another garage. This garage also found various 
problems with the car including: pulling to the right; a crease to the front chassis; the bonnet 
fouling the wing tops behind the headlight when closed; light damage behind the offside 
head light under the coolant bottle; and both front tyres worn. The car was then returned to H 
who arranged for its own inspection to be carried out. Following this, Miss C told Oodle that 
H was blaming her for the faults with the car. 
Over the next few months, a stalemate was reached where H agreed to sort out the body 
damage as a gesture of goodwill, but Miss C wasnt happy that this would fix the problem of 
the car pulling to the right. Miss C also felt H was being awkward. She also got in touch with 
the cars previous owner by phone. The previous owner told her the car had been involved in 
an accident. Miss C gave Oodle a copy of the call recording confirming this. As it couldnt be 
agreed what work was needed, Oodle arranged an independent inspection to be carried out. 
The independent inspection identified various faults with Miss Cs car including, but not 
limited to: both front wings appeared to have been replaced or removed at some point; the 
bonnet seemed to have been recently replaced and was misaligned to the wings; the front 
bumper seemed to have been replaced; and the tyres were excessively worn. The report 
concluded that the evidence was consistent with frontal damage repairs, and that the repairs 
were poor and not of a commercial standard. But the report also said it couldnt confirm if 
this would have been present at the point of sale. This report was carried out in March 2020. 
Then, a further report from the same independent company was completed with largely the 
same details. But this time the report concluded the issues wouldnt have been present at 
the point of sale. Based on this, Oodle rejected Miss Cs complaint. 
So Miss C brought her complaint to our service. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators. He thought her complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said he didnt 
think the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied. Our investigator thought Miss C 
should be able to reject the car. He set out what Oodle needed to do to put things right. 
Miss C accepted our investigators view. But Oodle didnt. It made various points including: 
the independent report had said the issues werent there at the point of sale; and, H should 
have the opportunity to rectify the damage on the car. Oodle also said it didnt think rejection 
was the right resolution as Miss C had full use of the car and the damage was more 
cosmetic and didnt stop her using it. 
This didnt persuade our investigator to change his view. So, as the matter remains 
unresolved, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first. Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the 
heart of the matter here: was the car supplied to Miss C of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Miss C acquired the car using a hire purchase agreement in September 2019. As the finance 
provider, Oodle is responsible for the quality of the car provided. The relevant legislation is 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) and, in summary, this means the car provided 
using the agreement should be of satisfactory quality. Im required to take the law into 
account, but Im also required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances here. 
When deciding whether something was of satisfactory quality, there are a number of factors 
to consider, such the age and mileage of the car. This car was about six years old and had 
done around 64,000-miles, so its likely it would have shown signs of wear and tear. Such 
wear and tear wouldnt in itself automatically mean a car was of unsatisfactory quality or that 
Oodle would be responsible for this. But it would be responsible for other issues you wouldnt expect (or reasonably be aware of) with a car of this age and/or mileage, such as 
problems with durability or the appearance and finish. 
Theres quite a lot of contradictory information in this case, including the different 
conclusions of the two independent reports. But its not disputed that there was frontal 
damage to the car. This is confirmed by both the independent reports. Miss C believes the 
front of the car was already damaged in an accident, and the previous owner also said this 
was the case. So Im satisfied the crux of this complaint is whether this damage was done 
before or after the point of sale  that is, before or after Miss C got the car. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is more likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The CRA 2015 provides the right for customers to reject goods for a number of reasons, 
including if they arent of satisfactory quality. There are two ways for a customer to reject 
goods: a right to reject within 30 days; or a final right of rejection if a repair or replacement 
doesnt result in the goods conforming to contract. 
I can see Miss C entered into the agreement on 23 September 2019. Ive looked at Oodles 
records. These show Miss C first contacted Oodle about a problem with the car  the loss of 
power  on 28 October 2019. This is more than 30 days after the start of the agreement. 
I can also see from Oodles records that H arranged for an injector to be replaced at the end 
of October 2019. But this repair didnt resolve Miss Cs issues. I know Oodle has said theres 
no evidence to show the repair carried out in October was connected to the body work 
damage. But I would point out the CRA 2015 allows a single right of repair, not a right of 
repair for each different issue. As Ive just said, a repair was attempted but it didnt result in 
the car conforming to contract. 
This means, as mentioned above, the CRA 2015 allows Miss C a final right of rejection. I 
would also point out that under the CRA 2015, as the problems with the body work were 
reported within six months of Miss C entering into the agreement, its for Oodle to prove the 
quality of the car was satisfactory at the point of sale  its not down to Miss C to prove it 
wasnt.
 
Both independent reports list the same issues: 
On a visual inspection to the vehicle we found that both front wings appeared to have
been replaced or removed at some point as witness marks were clearly evident on all
the wing fixing bolts.
The bonnet also appeared to have been recently replaced with a second-hand unit.
The bonnet was misaligned to the wings. The bonnet was contacting the offside front
wing and excessive gaps between the bonnet and A post were evident.
The front bumper also appeared to have been replaced.
The radiator upper nearside plastic mounting was broken. The offside plastic
mounting was also partially broken. Both the radiator and the air condenser were
displaying light corrosion and were slightly misshapen. The radiator was also loose in
its fitment and misaligned.
The coolant fan housing has been contacting the DPF pressure hoses. This has
resulted in the cowling rubbing through the outer protection of the pressure hoses.
There was still evidence of crease marks to the offside inner wing, adjacent to the
coolant bottle area.
The offside front tyre was severely worn to the inner and outer edges, to the pointwhere the cords were almost showing through. The outer shoulder was perished.
The centre tread was at 3mm. There was also minor cosmetic damage to the
sidewall of the tyre. The wheel appeared to be damage free.
The nearside front tyre also was showing excessive wear to the inner and outer
edges and again was almost through to the cords. The outer edge of the tyre was
bald and perished. The centre tread was approximately 3mm and again there was no
wheel damage evident.
On inspection to the underside of the vehicle both nearside front and offside front
lower suspension arm bushes were worn and split. We found no evidence to suggest
any suspension components had been replaced recently and all appeared to be
original fittings.
There was no road test undertaken due to the condition of the vehicles tyres. 
The first report stated it couldnt confirm if the issues found would have been present at the 
point of sale. But a few weeks later, this had been revised to say that as the issues are 
visible to the naked eye, there is insufficient evidence to support the car was in this condition 
at the time of purchase. It went on to say it wasnt beyond the realms of possibility that the 
car had been in some form of collision since purchase, but there wasnt enough evidence to 
support that it was in this condition when it was purchased. The second report concluded 
that if the issues were present at the point of sale, the inspection company would have 
expected Miss C to have noticed the worn tyres during safety checks. 
Its not clear to me what caused the inspection company to produce a second report. Oodles 
records indicate that, after it received the initial report, it asked the inspection company to 
provide a definitive conclusion. Oodle hasnt provided our service with any additional 
evidence it may have given to the inspection company to help it reach such a conclusion. 
Shortly after Oodle received the second report, it rejected Miss Cs complaint. 
The second report states the issues identified were visible to the naked eye. But Im not 
satisfied these would necessarily have been obvious to Miss C or any reasonable person. I 
say this because the majority of these issues would only have been apparent after looking 
under the bonnet or inspecting the front suspension. 
Even if Miss C had looked under the bonnet, Im not satisfied she should have noticed such 
things as the wings having been removed, issues with the radiator mountings or that there 
were problems with the coolant fan housing rubbing through the outer protection of the 
pressure hoses. While these might all have been visible to the naked eye, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect a non-mechanic to appreciate their significance. 
The second independent report also said it would have expected Miss C to have noticed the 
worn tyres during safety checks. But Miss C was aware of the worn tyres by early January 
2020  just over three months after she got it. As this is only a relatively short period since 
the point of sale, I dont think its unreasonable that Miss C didnt notice the worn tyres any 
earlier. 
Im also mindful of the opinion given by the inspection company in the second report. It 
states there was insufficient evidence that the car was in that condition when Miss C got the 
car. Thats at odds with the inspection companys conclusion in the same report that the 
issues wouldnt have been present at the point of sale. The opinion of inspection company in 
the second report also states that although the issues were aged, it wasnt beyond the 
realms of possibility that the car had been in some form of collision post purchase. Not being 
beyond the realms of possibility is far removed from it being more likely than not that 
Miss Cs car had been damaged after the point of sale. Taking all this into consideration. Im not satisfied the second independent report shows 
Miss Cs car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. As Im not persuaded by the 
conclusions of the second report, Ive looked again at the position the inspection company 
gave in its first report. This stated that the inspection company couldnt confirm if the issues 
would have been present or developing at the point of sale. 
I can see H had the car inspected in January 2020. Ive read this inspection report. Im 
satisfied this sheds no light on when the frontal damage took place.
Ive also thought about Miss Cs testimony. She tracked down the previous owner and spoke 
to him. Ive listened to the calls Miss C had with him. The previous owner confirmed the car 
had insurance work carried out which hadnt been done to a good standard. The previous 
owner also said hed been contacted by H, after Miss C had raised these issues with Oodle. 
He said H asked him for £500 in cash as there were major problems with the car hed traded 
in. 
I see no reason to disbelieve the previous owner. On balance, if the damage had happened 
after the point of sale  that is, Miss C had caused the damage  I think its very unlikely she 
would have taken the trouble to track down and contact the previous owner just on the off 
chance hed also had an accident which she could then use to cover up any damage she 
caused. 
Also, Miss C got in touch with a dealership which previously dealt with the car before she 
bought it. She supplied evidence to Oodle that in February 2019 the dealership had ordered 
a replacement reinforcement bar, also known as an impact bar. This sits behind the bumper. 
Replacing it is consistent with the car suffering frontal damage. While Oodle dont seem to 
have confirmed this with the dealership, it hasnt disputed this. 
Miss Cs testimony has been consistent throughout. Her actions in tracking down the 
previous owner and speaking to the previous dealership back up her assertion that the 
frontal damage was caused before she had the car, meaning it was present at the point of 
sale. 
Also, both Oodle and H have had ample opportunity to send us evidence that the frontal 
damage Miss C is unhappy with wasnt present at the point of sale. No such evidence has 
been provided. As above, in the circumstances here, its for Oodle to prove the quality of the 
car was satisfactory at the point of sale  its not down to Miss C to prove it wasnt. Taking all 
the above into account, I think its more likely than not the frontal damage was present at the 
point of sale, meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Oodle has stated that, as at 25 March 2020, the car had covered 6,000 miles since the point 
of sale. It says this surely shows the vehicle was fit for purpose. Im not satisfied it does. I 
would point out that a car being able to be driven doesnt automatically prove it was of 
satisfactory quality. Miss C reported a fault within a few weeks of the point of sale. She also 
noticed further problems within the following six to seven weeks even though, due the festive 
period, it was two months after the first fault that Miss C told Oodle of the continuing 
problems. 
In summary, on balance, Im not satisfied the car supplied to Miss C was of satisfactory 
quality. As a repair has already been unsuccessfully attempted, I think the fairest remedy is 
to allow her to reject the car. 
Oodle needs to arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss C. It also needs to end the hire 
purchase agreement. As the £2,000 deposit came from the sale of the previous vehicle, this should be used to offset the finance settlement of £2,517.70 for that vehicle, leaving a 
balance of £517.70. 
Oodle should also give Miss C a refund of the payments she made under the agreement 
less a deduction for fair usage. I can see when the independent inspection was carried out 
on 25 March 2020, the mileage was recorded as 69,903  around 6,000 more than when 
Miss C got the car. She provided a photo on 23 June 2020 showing the mileage at 70,936. 
Miss C provided a further photo on 4 December 2020 showing the car had only travelled a 
further 4 miles since June 2020. Taking all this into account, I think seven months is a fair 
and reasonable estimate of Miss Cs use of the car. So its fair and reasonable for her to 
have made payments, up to and including April 2020, to reflect this. 
So, Oodle needs to refund the payments she made since then, together with 8% yearly 
simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. This is consistent 
with our investigators view in June 2020. £517.70 of this settlement can be offset against 
the remaining amount on Miss Cs previous finance agreement. 
I can also see Miss C had to pay £50 to have the car inspected on 9 January 2020. Oodle 
should refund this to her along with 8% yearly simple interest from that date to the date of 
settlement. 
The agreement on Miss Cs credit file should be marked as settled. If any adverse 
information relating to the agreement has been recorded, Oodle should arrange for this to be 
removed. 
Finally, Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Miss C has experienced by these 
issues. Ultimately, the car she took under the hire purchase agreement didnt perform as it 
should have done. Its clear shes had to spend a lot of time dealing with various parties to 
try and resolve this. Oodle should pay Miss C £100 in recognition of this.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited should:
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
arrange collection of the car at no cost to Miss C;
refund all the monthly payments Miss C made from May 2020 onwards, adding 8% 
yearly simple interest from the date of each payment to the date its refunded. 
£517.70 is to be deducted from this amount to take account of the balance of Miss 
Cs previous finance agreement; 
pay Miss C £50 plus 8% yearly simple interest from 9 January 2020 to the date its 
refunded for the inspection report; and
pay Miss C £100 for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. 
Arrange for Miss Cs hire purchase agreement to marked as settled with credit 
reference agencies and for any adverse information relating to it to be removed.
If Oodle considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman