DRN-3365220
The complaint
Ms L complains that Topaz Finance Limited unfairly recorded a default on her credit file. She 
says shes been unable to get a mortgage. She asks that the default is removed and for 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Ms L took out a joint mortgage and linked unsecured loan with another lender in 2006. Her 
debt was later transferred to Topaz. Although some of the events pre-date the transfer, for 
simplicity I will refer to Topaz throughout this decision. The mortgage and unsecured loan 
were separated in 2015 when the security property was sold.  
Ms L had financial difficulties and in 2012 entered a debt management programme. Topaz 
agreed a reduced payment plan which was reviewed yearly. A review was due in April 2018. 
Topaz was unable to get in contact with Ms L and defaulted the account in mid-2018. 
Ms L says Topaz should have recorded the default some years earlier, or not at all. She 
says Topaz should have made more effort to get in contact with her before defaulting the 
account. Ms L says although shed moved, Topaz had her email address. 
Our investigator said we wouldnt expect Topaz to record a default while an arrangement 
was in place. And it was entitled to write to Ms L using the address in its records. Our 
investigator said Topaz hadnt acted unfairly.
Ms L didnt agree. She said Topaz should have made more effort to contact her in 2018 
before recording a default. She says she didnt update her address due to health issues. And 
payments under her debt management programme continued. Ms L said she wasnt given 
clear information about the arrangement, or when it was due to end. Ms L provided a screen 
shot of information provided by a credit reference agency saying lenders can record a 
default despite agreeing to a debt management plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is whether it was right and fair for Topaz to record a default on Ms Ls credit 
file in 2018. Ms L says it should have recorded a default years earlier or not at all.
Ms L says Topaz should have recorded a default when her account was between three 
months and six months in arrears. The date that the default was recorded is important as it 
stays on Ms Ls credit file for six years. If Topaz had recorded a default in 2012 it would no 
longer be on her credit file.
Ms L refers to guidance from ICO which says in general lenders should record defaults when 
the account is in arrears of more than three months and before it reaches arrears of six 
months. I think, in many cases, that would be fair. If arrears of six months have built up on 
an account, that suggests the borrower is unable to repay the debt.
But this isnt always the case. Ms L agreed a payment arrangement with Topaz. ICOs 
guidance says if an arrangement is agreed, a default would not normally be recorded unless 
the terms of the arrangement are broken. While a payment arrangement was in place, I think 
it was fair for Topaz to record this on Ms Ls credit file, rather than recording a default. 
Ms Ls payment arrangement was in place until April 2018. Topaz was unable to get in 
contact with Ms L. It couldnt deal with the organisation managing her debt management 
plan as it couldnt pass security. Topaz was unable to reach Ms L by post or telephone as 
shed moved home and hadnt updated her contact details with Topaz.
Topaz wrote to Ms L at the address in its records. It sent letters in April 2018 about needing 
to review the payment arrangement. It sent a letter in July 2018 saying it urgently needed to 
discuss the account with her due to the level of arrears and reduced payments. This letter 
said it would record the loan as in default in 28 days time.
It was Ms Ls responsibility to update her contact details with Topaz when she moved. Ms L 
says she didnt update her contact details with Topaz due to health issues. Im sorry about 
this, and I appreciate this was a difficult time. But I think it was fair for Topaz to try to contact 
Ms L by post and telephone using the details in its records. I dont think its fair to say that 
Topaz should have tried to contact Ms L using an email address. Topaz says it doesnt use 
email as it isnt secure. I dont think Topaz had fairly to do more to try to trace Ms L at that 
time, before defaulting the account. 
Ms L says she wasnt given clear information about the arrangement to pay. A debt advice 
organisation was managing Ms Ls debt management plan between 2015 and 2018. It 
seems this worked satisfactorily until 2018, when the debt advice organisation couldnt pass 
Topazs security. Topazs records for April 2017 show it offered a payment arrangement with 
a stated monthly payment and an end date of April 2018 and this was accepted. Topaz dealt 
with the debt advice organisation, as requested by Ms L. I think this was reasonable. I dont 
know what information the debt advice organisation gave Ms L about the terms of the 
arrangement with Topaz, or if it told her it could no longer speak to Topaz on her behalf after 
failing security. If it didnt give her clear information, I dont think I can fairly hold Topaz 
responsible for this.
By August 2018 the arrangement to pay had expired and hadnt been renewed or replaced. 
Topaz was unable to contact Ms L. Topazs letter to Ms L in July 2018 also mentions the 
level of the arrears and the reduced payments. Topaz decided to default the account. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think it was unfair for Topaz to record a default on Ms Ls 
credit files in August 2018. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Topaz to remove the default from Ms Ls credit files or pay compensation for any upset this 
caused her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman