DRN-1629576
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr S says Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr S applied for mortgage from Yorkshire in 2002. At the same time, he was sold a PPI 
policy. The policy was free for the first six months. After that it would cost Mr S £12.08 per 
month. The policy covered Mr S against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness 
or unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly 
benefit of £250 for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr S recalls he was pressured into taking out the PPI. He has said it wasnt something he 
wanted or needed.
Yorkshire had to make it clear the policy was optional.
Ive looked at the mortgage application from the time and I cant see anything that shows the 
policy was compulsory. The application refers to a leaflet that gave details of the cover 
available. I can also see that the mortgage offer states that Mr S had chosen to take out the 
cover. The cover was also free for the first six months so it could be Mr S chose to take it out 
then continued with it after the free period expired.
Mr S was taking out a mortgage for the first time and in his own name. So, hed be solely 
responsible for making the repayments. Ive no doubt the Yorkshire representative told him 
he should take out the cover, but that is different to saying he had to.
All this makes me think that Mr S was made aware the PPI was optional. So, I think Mr S 
chose to take the PPI knowing he didnt have to  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this after so many years.
It is likely Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was.Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example he 
had no medical conditions that would not have been covered.
Yorkshire has shown us a copy of an employers reference which shows Mr S was entitled to 
four months full sick pay followed by four months half pay if he became too unwell to work. 
But the PPI could have paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr S could not work, so I think 
hed have found it useful particularly if he couldnt work for an extended period of time.
Mr S had some savings he could rely on. But he chose to keep the savings intact rather than 
use them to reduce the mortgage. So, the savings were likely important to him. And the PPI 
would mean he didnt have to use the savings to pay his mortgage if he was unable to work.
Its possible the information Yorkshire gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
 
In summary, I think its likely Yorkshire gave Mr S a fair choice over buying the policy. I think 
it was likely to have been right for him and even if Yorkshire had given him all the information 
it should have, hed have still gone ahead and taken it out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman