DRN-3755459
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Together Personal Finance has managed his buy to let 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr B said that when he and his late wife got a quote for a buy to let mortgage, it was 
originally at an affordable rate. But he said Together took so long to sort out the paperwork, 
that the payments tripled, and Mr and Mrs B had to take the mortgage because of the debt 
accrued in that time.
Mr B said Together then passed the mortgage account over to Law Of Property Act 
receivers (receivers) although he had offered to pay the mortgage at the rates hed been 
sent in letters from Together. 
Mr B wanted to be given time to sell the property himself, to get the best price. But he said 
Together had refused point blank. Mr B didnt want the house to sell below its true value. He 
said Together should either write off this mortgage as unsustainable or let him sort things 
out.
Together said that Mr B had taken out a buy to let mortgage in April 2019, for a little over 
£42,000. It had responded to a complaint about the cost of the mortgage in May 2021. 
Together also said it thought that the circumstances of Mr B and the late Mrs B had 
unfortunately changed throughout the loan, and thats what caused the financial difficulties. 
Our investigator said we couldnt look at Mr Bs complaint about the initial affordability of this 
mortgage, and whether delays caused by Together had increased the costs of that 
mortgage, because Mr B hadnt complained about this within six months of the letter that 
Together sent about this. Although Mr B said he felt his circumstances around this time were 
exceptional, our investigator said that he had remained in touch with Together during this 
time, so she thought he could also have complained to our service. 
Mr B didnt then challenge this further, and our investigator looked at the remaining issues of 
Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr B fell behind 
with his monthly payments, so the outstanding balance on his loan was increasing, and so 
were the arrears on his account. Mr B did take out a six-month coronavirus payment deferral 
in April 2020 and a reduced payment plan was agreed once that ended. Mr Bs income had 
been affected by the pandemic, and this was one way Together tried to help. 
Our investigator said that Mr B was in over nine months of arrears when receivers were 
appointed. She thought that was in his best interests. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he couldnt see how the appointment of the receivers, or the 
subsequent sale of the property, was right or legal. He said Together wrote to him every 
month with a statement and an offer for him to pay an extended amount until he could 
arrange the sale of the property for a reasonable amount. But Mr B said that the property 
was then sold anyway, and hed incurred a significant amount of extra costs. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I think it might help if I set out what I can and cannot consider in this case. 
Mr B complained to us in May 2022. I agree with our investigator that we cannot consider 
issues that Together responded to in its complaint letter of 24 May 2021, about the monthly 
mortgage costs increasing due to Togethers delays, and that the mortgage wasnt 
affordable. I understand that Mr B doesnt contest this. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs B took this mortgage out in April 2019. They were paying the 
mortgage each month until March 2020, when they appear to have got into difficulties. Mr B 
told us that his income was severely affected by the pandemic. No payments were made 
until May 2021, when payments below the contractual monthly payment did restart. But 
these then stopped again. In September 2021, Together wrote to Mr B to give him a last 
chance to pay off the whole of the arrears, and when he wasnt able to do that, Together 
appointed a receiver to manage Mr Bs property for him. 
I understand that Mr B was having an extremely difficult time at this point, and Id like to say 
how very sorry I have been to hear about everything hes faced in the past couple of years. 
But I do think it was an appropriate step for Together to appoint a receiver at this point, given 
that the arrears on the mortgage were increasing. 
The receiver managed the property for some time, while there was a tenant living there, then 
it sold the property. Mr B said the receiver ought not to have sold the property, because he 
was responding to Togethers correspondence by offering to pay the required monthly 
amount, and he wanted time to sell the property himself. Mr B also said he didnt know what 
had happened to the rent money, which the receivers were collecting.
I should clarify here why our service isnt allowed to consider complaints against receivers. 
Although Together appoints the receiver, its important to understand that the receiver wasnt 
acting for Together. The receiver acted for Mr B, under powers contained in legislation, and 
set out in Mr Bs original mortgage agreement with Together. That agreement sets out when 
Together can appoint a receiver to act for Mr B (and Ive said that those provisions were 
properly followed). The agreement also sets out the powers that receiver will have, including 
the power to sell the property. 
This is a complaint about what Together did. And because the receiver is acting for Mr B, not 
for Together, I cant look at what the receiver did as part of Mr Bs complaint against 
Together. 
But I can look at what Together did. And Together says it wasnt sending Mr B any request 
for monthly payments. What it was sending him was regular statements. I wouldnt expect Together to have taken the property back from the receiver just because 
Mr B said he could start making his monthly payments again. Mr B had substantial arrears, 
and I think its reasonable for Together to want to know how Mr B would address these. So I 
would have expected it to consider any offer from Mr B to make a lump sum payment, which 
would clear those arrears. But it doesnt look like Mr B offered to do this. So I dont think that 
Together had to return the property to Mr Bs control, or that it ought to have acted to prevent 
the sale by the receivers.
Mr B said he could have organised a sale at a much higher price than the receivers 
eventually obtained. Together said it looked into the offer Mr B said hed received, and this 
wasnt an offer to buy the property. Rather, it was an option to purchase, which wouldnt go 
ahead unless the business Mr B was talking to, could find a buyer. Also, Mr Bs receiver 
wouldnt have been able to continue to market the property in the meantime. I dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable for Together to turn down this suggestion.
Mr B also told us he was unhappy about the costs which were added to his mortgage. Some 
of these were costs applied by the receiver for work it did for Mr B, which our service cannot 
consider, and some were charges applied to his mortgage by Together. Our service can 
consider a complaint about charges applied to his mortgage by Together, but only after Mr B 
has complained about these costs directly to Together. Our service cannot consider this 
issue for Mr B until Together has had a chance to respond. 
I know that Mr B will be disappointed, but looking at the points I am allowed to consider here, 
I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman