DRN-4398368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Coventry Building Society misled them about being able to port 
their mortgage. They say it should refund the early repayment charge (ERC) and other 
charges and pay compensation for their distress. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Coventry. They contacted Coventry in mid-2022 to ask 
about porting as they wanted to move home. 
Mr and Mrs S say they were only told they wouldnt be able to port their mortgage on the day 
they exchanged contracts. They had to arrange alternative funding for a shortfall of about 
£45,000. They had to pay the ERC to Coventry.
Coventry said it had given Mrs S incorrect information about the porting process. It offered 
£250 for the upset caused and to port the product if Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with it 
within six months.
Our investigator said while Coventry had given Mrs S incorrect information about the porting 
process its offer was fair. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest rate product in mid-2019. There was an ERC payable if 
the mortgage was repaid before the product expired in mid-2024. Mr and Mrs S agreed to 
this when they took out the product. 
The product offer said the product was portable, subject to meeting Coventrys lending 
criteria. The product offer said the ported mortgage could only be used to buy a property, not 
to re-mortgage a property they already owned. Coventry says it sent a booklet about porting 
to Mr and Mrs S with the product offer. This also said the ported mortgage could only be 
used to buy a property, not to re-mortgage a property already owned, and that the new 
mortgage must complete within six months from the sale of the secured property.
Mr S called Coventry in mid-June 2022. Mr S said theyd sold their property  by which he 
meant theyd agreed to sell it  and asked if they could port with a smaller mortgage. Mr S 
was given correct information on this call about the porting process, including that theyd 
need to go through an application process and affordability checks. There was a discussion 
about how long an appointment with a mortgage adviser would take, and what documents 
theyd need to provide to support the application. The adviser said if Mr and Mrs S collected 
the documents beforehand this would speed up the application.
Mrs S called Coventry the next day. She said they were in the early stages of having agreed 
to sell and wanted to know what happens when they sell their property. Ive listened to this 
call and there was a significant misunderstanding between Coventry and Mrs S. The result 
was that Mrs S wasnt given clear and correct information about the porting process. 
Mr and Mrs S thought theyd have six months after their move to sort out the mortgage, and 
were shocked when their solicitor said this wasnt the case. Mr and Mrs S say they only 
discovered this on the day they exchanged contracts.
Mr and Mrs S exchanged contracts on 3 October 2022 and completed on 6 October 2022 
(their sale and purchase were simultaneous). They were short of about £45,000 for their 
purchase. This was stressful and they had to borrow from family, which they found 
mortifying. 
Mr and Mrs S say if theyd been given correct information theyd have followed the process 
to port the mortgage. They say they wouldnt have had to pay the ERC and would have used 
their savings to pay for work on the property. They made a complaint in early October 2022.
Coventry accepts it gave Mrs S incorrect information and offered to put things right. It offered 
£250 for Mr and Mrs Ss stress and inconvenience. It offered to process a re-mortgage 
application on an expedited basis and, provided this was within six months of the sale, port 
the mortgage product and waive the ERC and other charges. Coventry made the offer in a 
call on 17 October 2022 and sent a final response confirming the offer on 24 October 2022.
Mr S says this offer came too late, as theyd secured funds and didnt want to revisit 
discussions with their family. Theyd already had the embarrassment of borrowing from 
family and found the situation very stressful. By this time, their sale and purchase had 
completed and they say theyd lost faith in Coventry. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt have to accept the offer from Coventry. It was their choice not to do so, 
and it was for them to decide what was best for them. But I think Coventrys offer was fair. It 
would have put Mr and Mrs S into the position they would have been in if they had ported. 
The ERC would have been refunded, theyd have kept the benefit of the interest rate until 
the product term expired and theyd have had funds available for work to the property and to 
repay the funds borrowed from family.
I need to take into account here that while Coventry didnt give Mrs S clear and correct 
information on the call in mid-2022, it did give Mr and Mrs S correct information at other 
times, including on the call with Mr S in mid-June 2022. 
I think Coventry made a fair offer to put matters right. I dont think, in the circumstances, its 
fair and reasonable to require Coventry to refund the ERC or other costs or pay additional 
compensation. I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for the upset caused by the 
unclear information given to Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about the way Coventry dealt with their complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, which means we cant always look into it. I can consider 
how a complaint was handled in some circumstances, for instance if the way the complaint 
was dealt with delayed the underlying problem being sorted out. I dont think that was the 
case here. Coventry responded within two weeks of Mr and Mrs S making a complaint, with 
a fair offer to put things right.  
Coventry says Mr and Mrs S hadnt raised a complaint with it about it not providing call 
recordings promptly. That means I cant fairly consider that here.My final decision
My decision is that Coventry Building Societys offer to put matters right was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It should pay £250 to Mr and Mrs S, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman