DRN-2530557
The complaint
Miss Es complained about the mortgage she had with HSBC UK Bank Plc. The first part of 
the complaint was that HSBC turned down her request for a further advance for debt 
consolidation purposes in 2020. The second is that she feels the original mortgage was 
mis-sold in 2016 as the maximum amount HSBC said it would lend in 2020 was less than 
she borrowed in 2016.
What happened
In 2016 Miss E took out a mortgage with HSBC to buy her first home. It was recorded she 
was paying rent of £495 a month, and the new mortgage would be £505 a month. The 
deposit was gifted to her by a family member and she borrowed 90% loan to value.
In 2018 Miss Es preferential rate came to an end so she applied online for a new 
preferential interest rate.
In 2020 Miss E wanted to apply for a further advance to pay off some debts, but HSBC said 
it wasnt willing to lend her the money. In fact, the calculations showed it wasnt even willing 
to lend her then what it had lent her in 2016.
On 13 January 2020 HSBC issued its final response to Miss Es complaint about it not 
agreeing to a further advance to consolidate her debts. In that, it said Miss E had six months 
to refer her complaint to this service, otherwise it wouldnt give its permission for us to 
consider it.
Miss E redeemed her mortgage in July 2020, and then raised a further complaint the 
following month. This complaint was that she felt her original mortgage had been mis-sold as 
she couldnt understand why, in 2020, HSBC said it wouldnt now even lend as much as it 
did in 2016. She said she wanted all the interest shed paid over the four years shed held 
the mortgage to be refunded to her, as well as the early repayment charge (ERC) she 
incurred when repaying her mortgage.
HSBC responded to that complaint in September 2020. It said it wasnt considering the 
further advance complaint again, but that all the interest had been charged in line with the 
mortgage offer.
Miss E then referred her second complaint to us, saying the original mortgage had been 
mis-sold.
Our investigator said the information available indicated the 2016 mortgage was affordable 
and suitable. He said the mortgage payment was only slightly more than Miss Es rent, 
Miss E didnt miss any mortgage payments and her bank account seemed well run after she 
took the mortgage out, so there was no indication that this mortgage caused her any 
difficulties.
Miss E didnt agree, saying she doesnt understand how she qualified for the mortgage in 
2016. As an agreement couldnt be reached, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked 
and answered.
For completeness, I confirm that Im only considering the complaint about the 2016 
mortgage sale, not about the 2020 further advance enquiry, as the 2020 further advance 
enquiry wasnt referred to us within the time limit set out in our rules.
I appreciate Miss E feels HSBC shouldnt have lent her the mortgage in 2016. But it isnt my 
role to tell lenders how much money to lend to particular consumers. Lenders are able to use 
their commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role 
is to ensure such judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my 
judgement for the banks.
Miss E has said the decision was flawed because HSBC included her tax credits in her 
income, and it shouldnt as they wouldnt be paid for the life of the mortgage. But Ive seen 
the information that was recorded in 2016 and HSBC didnt include her tax credits. The 
figure it used for the income calculation was in fact slightly less than that shown on her 
May 2016 payslip.
HSBC didnt include the private school fees Miss E was paying out, but again that seems 
reasonable as those also wouldnt have been for the life of the mortgage, and there was a 
note recorded that they were covered by other income that Miss E received that HSBC 
couldnt use for its mortgage consideration (ie her tax credits). As her income from tax credit 
receipts was broadly the same as her outgoings on private school fees and neither would be 
a long-term consideration, it seems reasonable for HSBC to have set them both aside in its 
decision on how much it was willing to lend.
The new mortgage was only £10 a month more than the amount Miss E was paying in rent, 
and the information that was recorded about her income and expenditure indicated it was 
affordable for her. She didnt miss any payments in the four years she held the mortgage, 
and her bank accounts dont indicate any financial difficulties. A complaint was raised that 
the 2016 mortgage shouldnt have been sold as it was unaffordable only after HSBC turned 
down Miss Es request to borrow more money on her mortgage. If Miss E was struggling with 
her finances I would have expected that to have been mentioned sooner.
When deciding whether or not to lend more money, lenders have to apply the current mortgage 
rules, their current criteria and calculators, and think about whether the mortgage would be 
affordable. A lenders criteria and calculators will change slightly over the years, and whilst it 
would be willing to agree to something at a given time, doesnt mean it must always agree to the 
same. Criteria get loosened and tightened all the time. Having considered everything Im 
satisfied HSBC fairly considered Miss Es 2016 mortgage application and it was entitled to 
agree to lend that money to her at the time. The fact the 2020 calculations came up with a lower 
maximum lending figure doesnt change that. All things considered, Im satisfied the 2016 mortgage wasnt mis-sold and so there are no grounds for me to order HSBC to refund any 
interest, payments or the ERC.
Finally, Miss E initially said she wanted her interest back for the four years she held this 
mortgage with HSBC, and then when she referred the complaint to us she said she wanted 
us to consider refunding all the payments shed made (that is the capital and interest). She 
compared it to the redress for mis-sold payday loans. But even if I had decided this 
mortgage shouldnt have been arranged in 2016, that wouldnt be fair redress. We look to 
put a person back in the position they would have been in had things not gone wrong. 
Miss E has said she couldnt have bought the property if HSBC hadnt lent her so much 
money, so she would instead have remained renting at £495 a month. Instead for £505 a 
month she acquired an asset, which according to property websites is now likely to be worth 
around £178,000 rather than the £125,000 she paid for it. If HSBC hadnt arranged this 
mortgage for Miss E in 2016 she wouldnt have that increase in value, so it would be highly 
inequitable for her mortgage payments to be refunded to her, without her giving up the 
property and waiving her right to that increase in value. She also wouldnt have lived at no 
cost for those four years, so if she hadnt been paying £505 to her mortgage, she would 
instead have been paying £495 in rent.
In any event, all that is moot as Im not persuaded this mortgage was mis-sold to Miss E in 
2016. I simply mention it to explain to Miss E why it cant be compared to her example of a 
mis-sold payday loan.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman