DRN-4318021
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the quality of a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
On 25 March 2022 Mr I took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. This was for a 
brand new car with a cash price of £47,755. Mr I agreed to pay £5,825 in advance, with the 
rest repayable over 48 months using the finance agreement. 
Mr I told us hes had ongoing problems with a number of the cars features, including:
failing to lock or unlock when the button on the key fob is pressed.
doors unlocking, lights coming on, or the window opening when the key fob isnt 
present. 
the media system crashing or losing connectivity, which meant he couldnt use 
features such as satnav, radio, Bluetooth, and other technology.
the reversing camera either giving unclear images or not working at all.
Mr I said hed taken the car back to the supplying dealer several times to try to fix these 
issues. He provided a copy of the dealers estimate dated 28 June 2022, listing the following 
work:
Carry out recall Programming control units (head unit)
Mr I also showed us a copy of the dealers invoice dated 12 October 2022 and a summary 
document dated 28 October 2022 explaining work theyd carried out. It says:
Key issue: new software has been inputted into the vehicle and the keys have been 
reset and coded.
Head unit / cluster fault: Again the vehicle has new software inputted and all devices 
have been removed from the head unit / TCB.
In February 2023 Mr I complained to BMWFS that he was still having problems with the car 
despite the dealers attempts to fix it. He said he wanted to return it - either for a refund or a 
replacement vehicle. Whilst awaiting their response, Mr I took the car back to the dealer for 
further diagnostic and repair work. 
The dealers job card shows the car was returned to them on 6 April 2023. Technicians 
notes dated 14 April 2023 confirm:
Carry out touch function test  intermittent fault  requires new CID screen  
manufacturing defect  internal electrical fault.
The technicians notes confirm the CID screen was replaced on 18 April 2023.
On 20 April 2023 BMWFS issued their final response, rejecting Mr Is complaint. They said 
they were satisfied the car had been of satisfactory quality when theyd supplied it. 
Dissatisfied, Mr I brought his complaint to us. After looking into what had happened, our 
investigator said she didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr I. So, she thought it was fair for him to reject the car and get his deposit back. 
The investigator thought Mr I should receive a 10% refund of the monthly payments hed 
made since 28 June 2022 to reflect the fact that the media system and keys hadnt been 
working properly since then. She said BMWFS should pay Mr I £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused; and remove any adverse information thats 
been recorded on his credit file about this agreement. 
BMWFS disagreed. They said Mr I had returned the car for a technical update, but this 
wasnt a safety recall. They said although Mr I made several appointments with the dealer, 
on some of these occasions no work had been carried out because he hadnt turned up or 
wasnt happy with the courtesy car hed been offered. 
BMWFS felt other factors could be causing the problems Mr Is been experiencing, such as 
his phone software, or a non-genuine tint applied to the car windows. As the most recent 
appointment had been rescheduled to October 2023, they thought it would be fair to allow 
the dealer to reassess the car and confirm whether the faults were present. 
Mr I provided another update, saying he was still experiencing the same issues with the car. 
He showed us a copy of a document from the dealer dated 20 October 2023, confirming 
theyd carried out software update ref headunit issue. 
Mr I said he was happy with our investigators view of his complaint but pointed out that hed 
have to pay £80 to remove his personalised number plates from the car. As BMWFS didnt 
accept our investigators recommendations as to how this complaint should be resolved, its 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Mr I entered into was a hire purchase agreement, so Im satisfied I consider 
his complaint about it. Under this type of agreement, BMWFS is the supplier of the car, so 
theyre responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory.
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. I bear in mind this was a new car costing £47,755 - and 
that this is generally considered to be a premium brand. So, I think Mr I was reasonably 
entitled to expect all of its main features to be working properly. 
Ive reviewed all the evidence in detail. But Ill be focussing on the issues with the media 
system because Mr I told us this affects his ability to use features such as satnav, radio, Bluetooth, and other technology. I wouldnt consider the car to be of satisfactory quality if 
those features werent working properly, regardless of whether there were also other faults. 
I havent seen anything confirming the exact date the problem with the media system came 
to light. Ive seen evidence showing the car was returned to the dealer on 28 June 2022 and 
12 October 2022 for updates to the head unit. I understand this to be the interface for the 
cars various information and entertainment systems. 
Mr I has shown us a text message confirming he made the October appointment on 26 
August 2022. So, Im satisfied that he asked the dealer to look into the issue with the media 
system not working properly within six months of getting the car. Having thought about all of 
this, I think its most likely that the fault was already present or developing when the recall 
was carried out on 28 June 2022.
The CRA makes it clear that if a car isnt of satisfactory quality within six months of delivery, 
it must be taken not to have been of satisfactory quality from the start. This wouldnt apply if 
BMWFS provide evidence showing the car was of satisfactory quality when it was delivered. 
As I havent seen any such evidence from BMWFS, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr I. 
Ive seen a copy of the complaint Mr I made to BMWFS in February 2023. I think he made it 
clear in that letter that he wanted to reject the car because the dealers attempts to repair it 
hadnt been successful. 
Im satisfied that Mr I had the right to reject the car at that point. After taking it back to the 
dealer for repair in October 2022, he was entitled to expect it to be of satisfactory quality. 
And Im not persuaded that it was.
I appreciate BMWFS feel the problems Mr I has been experiencing may be due to other 
factors, such as his own phone software. But the technicians notes Ive seen dated 14 April 
2023 confirm there was at least one fault:
requires new CID screen  manufacturing defect  internal electrical fault.
The technicians notes go on to confirm the central information display (CID) screen was 
replaced on 18 April 2023.
Ive considered whether it would still be fair for Mr I to reject the car, after this repair in April 
2023. But Mr I says none of the dealers attempted repairs have resolved the problems. Hes 
shown us another document from the dealer, dated 20 October 2023, saying theyve carried 
out another software update in relation to the headunit issue.  
For these reasons, I find Mr I should be allowed to exercise his right to reject the car and 
receive a refund of the £5,825 deposit he paid. I bear in mind that Mr I is currently still using 
the car. I think its fair that he should pay for the use hes had of it. BMWFS should make 
arrangements to collect it without charge on a date thats convenient for Mr I, ending the 
agreement on the date of collection. 
I appreciate Mr I will have to pay a fee to DVLA to remove his personalised number plates 
before the car is returned. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think hes had the 
enjoyment of these number plates on the car for around 17 months. And I cant say how long 
hed have kept these plates on the car if it had been of satisfactory quality. So, I dont think 
its fair for me to direct BMWFS to cover the transfer fee. Im satisfied Mr I hasnt had full use of all the cars expected features due to the issues with 
it. So, I think its fair for BMWFS to refund 10% of the monthly payments hes made since 28 
June 2022.
Although Mr I was provided with a courtesy car whilst this one was in for repair work, I do 
think the problems with it have caused him stress and inconvenience. He told us that having 
to run it to the dealer and collect it each time its gone in for repairs has been inconvenient 
because he needs the car for work, the school run and other commitments. He said hes felt 
anxious about paying so much money for a car with the faults hes been experiencing. I 
consider £150 compensation to be fair for the stress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Make arrangements to collect the car without charge to Mr I, on a date thats 
convenient for him.
End the agreement, at no further cost to Mr I.
Refund the £5,825 deposit Mr I paid.
Refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr I has made since 28 June 2022.
Add 8% simple interest to each of the refunded and reimbursed payments, calculated 
from the date of each payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr I £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Mr Is credit file about this 
agreement. 
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of each 
payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
If BMWFS consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr I how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman