DRN-3297392
The complaint
Miss C says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss C took out two 6-month instalment loans from Lending Stream. A summary of her
borrowing follows.
loan taken out repaid valuehighest monthly 
repayment
1 06/09/2019 16/09/2019 £140 £45.11
2 15/02/2020 21/02/2019 £400 £146.27
Miss C says she was already struggling with bills and other payday loans when she applied. 
The lender didnt check her income with a payslip or her outgoings with bank statements. It 
didnt ask her to update her income and outgoings when she applied for loan 2. She was 
encouraged to borrow more than she could afford. This has affected her physical and mental 
health. She asks for all interest and charges to be refunded with interest, and the information 
about the loans on her credit file to be removed.
Our adjudicator did not upheld Miss Cs complaint. He said given the loan values and 
lending history it was fair for Lending Stream to rely on the information Miss C provided, and 
from the checks it completed there were no signs Miss C was having financial difficulties.
Miss C disagreed and sent in a bank statement from June 2020 to evidence her financial 
position.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should've carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for both loans. It asked for details of 
her income (£1,600 at the time of loan 1 and £2,000 at the time of loan 2) and expenditure 
that it checked against national statistics (£826 at the time of loan 1 and £1,075 at the time 
of loan 2). Loan 2 was taken five months after loan 2 and by then Miss C had repaid loan 1 
in full ahead of her repayment schedule.
I havent seen anything in the information it gathered, or her pattern of borrowing, that I think 
should have led Lending Stream to reach different lending decisions. Miss C says she wasnt 
asked to provide payslips or bank statements  but the lender was not obliged to ask for this 
supporting documentation. Given the value of the loans and their monthly repayments I think 
it was reasonable for it to rely on Miss Cs declarations. She also said her income and 
outgoings werent rechecked for loan but from the evidence Lending Stream has submitted 
that doesnt seem to be accurate. The application data for loan 2 shows she had declared 
revised figures, as lve quoted above.
Miss C sent in a bank statement from June/August 2020 in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. That was after her loan applications, but regardless I dont think in the 
circumstances of these applications it would have been proportionate for Lending Stream to 
carry out a full financial review that would have required sight of her bank statements. 
Overall, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give either 
loan to Miss C.My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman