DRN-4123715
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt tell him he had to take out a new 
mortgage product before a certain date to guarantee it being in place when his existing 
product expired. As a result, his mortgage was on its standard variable rate (SVR) for a 
month.
What happened
Mr Ms mortgage product was due to expire on 31 July 2022. Mr M says he wasnt told he 
had to take out a new product before 19 July 2022 for it to be in place by the end of the 
month.
Mr M took out a new product on 28 July 2022. Bank of Ireland applied its SVR to Mr Ms 
mortgage for a month. Mr M says this cost him £62 in additional interest which hed like 
refunded.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland had written to Mr M in May 2022 saying there was a 
cut-off date to take out a new product for it to be in place by the end of the month, and this 
was also stated on its website.
Mr M said this wasnt stated on the letter Bank of Ireland sent to him in early July 2022 
reminding him that his product was due to expire. He says theres no reason for the deadline 
to be omitted other than to ensure people are caught out into paying additional fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M doesnt dispute that he knew his fixed rate product was due to expire at the end of July 
2022. What he does dispute is that Bank of Ireland told him he needed to take out a new 
product by 19 July 2022 for this to be in place by 1 August 2022. 
Bank of Ireland says it sent a letter to Mr M on 10 May 2022. This letter said his fixed rate 
was ending and he could switch to a new deal. It said he could do this via a mortgage broker 
or online. The letter then said: To guarantee your new rate taking effect from the 1st of the 
month after your current deal ends (or the 1st of next month if your deal has already ended), 
we must have your Offer acceptance and anything else weve asked for by the 19th of the 
previous month. If we dont have everything by then, your product switch may not take effect 
until a month later.
Bank of Ireland provided its records showing that the letter was sent to Mr M. On balance, I 
think it did send the letter to Mr M. Bank of Ireland says this deadline is also explained on its 
website.
Bank of Ireland sent a further letter to Mr M on 3 July 2022. This said his deal was due to 
end and told him what his new monthly payment would be. It said if hed recently applied to 
switch to a new deal the letter wouldnt account for that. Otherwise, the letter didnt give 
information about taking out a new product. 
Mr M contacted Bank of Ireland on 28 July 2022. He was told that hed missed the 19 July 
2022 deadline and the SVR would apply for one month. He took out a new rate which took 
effect on 1 September 2022.
Mr M hasnt said whether or not he received the letter sent in May 2022. He says the second 
letter, sent in July 2022, should also have included the paragraph setting out the deadline. 
He says not everyone can access information on websites.
Mr M would have found it helpful if Bank of Ireland had set out the deadline in the second 
letter. But this doesnt change the fact that Bank of Ireland had told him about the deadline 
when it wrote to him in May 2022 with information about taking out a new product. 
Im sorry Mr M missed the deadline. But I dont think Bank of Ireland misled him or treated 
him unfairly. It sent information to him about taking out a new product  including the 
deadline  and gave him correct information when he contacted it. It follows that I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Ireland to refund the additional interest Mr M paid 
as a result of his mortgage being on its SVR.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman