DRN-3580926
The complaint
Mrs H complains U K Insurance Limited handled her residential buildings insurance claim 
poorly. 
Mrs Hs been represented by a loss assessor (LA) for her claim. For ease, in places I have 
referred to its actions as being her own.
UKIs had various agents involved in the claim  including a claim managing agent, a 
surveyor and a construction contractor. Again for simplicity, in places Ive referred to the 
actions of those agents as being UKIs. 
What happened
In March 2020 there was a fire at Mrs Hs property. There was extensive damage. She 
claimed for the ground floor commercial unit against a policy held with Insurer B - Mrs H 
operated her business from the premises. She claimed for the upper floor residential part of 
the building against her UKI policy.
Reinstalment works began with UKIs appointed agents leading (with the agreement of 
Insurer B) on the full building. Around late summer 2020 Mrs H became concerned with how 
the claims and works were progressing. She appointed the LA to represent her. Around the 
end of 2020 she stopped contractors undertaking any further work  citing concerns about 
quality. In early 2021 she made a couple of complaints to UKI and commissioned her own 
survey. This highlighted a range of serious concerns with the reinstatement work. 
Little more happened on the site by the time of UKIs complaint response in September 
2021. Within UKIs response it said Mrs H had delayed progress by restricting access to the 
site. It said the criticised work was satisfactory or only intended to be temporary. It said work 
would have been completed if Mrs Hs LA hadnt barred the contractors from site.  
Mrs H wasnt satisfied, so in May 2021 she came to this service. In February 2022 UKI 
issued a further complaint response. It said it had intended to address most of the issues 
raised by Mrs Hs report but she - by not allowing it to continue work - had stopped it from 
doing so. UKI added that it had initially been considered appropriate to repair the roof, but as 
works progressed more damage came to light. It accepted it now appeared likely the full roof 
would need to be replaced. 
In April 2022 Mrs H sent the results of a tender process - based on a schedule of works 
(SoW) drawn up by her own surveyor - to UKI. It considered the bids but is concerned about 
the adequacy of the tender process and costs submitted. It recently said it intends to cash 
settle the claim. Insurer B, having shared the concerns, has already cash settled the 
commercial element of the claim at the policy sum insured limit.    
Mrs Hs still unhappy with the lack of progress of the claim. She provided a detailed outline 
of the impact of UKIs handling of the claim on her. These include a negative impact on her 
business due to it having to use unsuitable alternative premises for longer than necessary; 
legal costs and distress of her involvement in a court case with the construction contractors; 
and the bill for LA. Mrs H wants her losses covered and for reinstatement work to be 
completed. 
In June 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She felt UKIs general handling of 
the claim and poor quality of works had resulted in avoidable delay. She recommended it 
pay Mrs H £1,000 compensation to recognise the impact of the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused her. 
Neither Mrs H nor UKI accepted the assessment. She felt the compensation didnt align with 
her experience. She wants to UKI to cover losses, including those set out above. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision. My reasoning forms part of this final 
decision, so Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I intended to require UKI to 
reimburse Mrs H 50% of the cost of her surveyor and engineer fees. I also said why I 
planned to ask it to pay her £4,000. 
I also invited UKI and Mrs H to provide anything they would like me to consider before 
issuing a final decision. Mrs H didnt respond. UKI objected to my proposed redress. It 
provided several questions and statements. Ive addressed those, that I feel it necessary to, 
below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a significant amount of information and detail involved with this complaint. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to address or respond here to everything. 
Instead Ive focused on the key issues. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided for the complaint by Mrs H and UKI.
In the first five or so months the claim seems to have been progressed by UKI and its 
contractors reasonably  particularly when the impact of the pandemic is considered. 
A SoW was produced with reinstatement works beginning in reasonable time. 
Unfortunately it seems the SoW was ineffective.    
It seems clear the poor planning and workmanship of the contractors has delayed the 
final reinstatement of the building. More recent reports, commissioned by both Mrs H 
and UKI, persuade me a significant portion of the initial repairs were poorly planned 
and/or executed. 
UKIs made the case that much of the work complained about, including roof 
reinstatement, was only intended to be temporary. That isnt supported by any 
records Ive seen. Theres no reference to that work being temporary until UKI 
responded to Mrs Hs concerns about the use of inadequate materials. A UKI file 
note, from September 2020 (a few months before Mrs H barred access to the site), 
states the roof will be completed in four weeks. That doesnt indicate the repairs 
being temporary. 
  
It seems to be accepted, by both UKI and Mrs H, that the building now requires a full 
roof replacement. And it seems from that UKIs own October 2001 survey that this 
should have been recognised from the outset. Im not going to get into the details 
here, but Im also persuaded by the various reports provided by Mrs H that there 
were other issues with the planning and quality of the work. So Im currently satisfied the poor workmanship involved in this claim has resulted in 
the repairs taking considerably longer than they should. Mrs H feels it will be a further 
18 months until its back in use. This will inevitably mean the building, both residential 
and commercial facilities, being out of use for longer than necessary. 
So her business will need to use the current, less suitable, alternative premises for 
months longer than should have been necessary. This premises seems likely to 
involve additional expense for the business  through additional rent or mortgage 
payments. And Mrs H says it also results in a reduced income. The residential part of 
the property will be unavailable to Mrs H and her family for longer than should have 
been the case.  
I can see the matter has already involved inconvenience for Mrs H  through the 
need to instruct various professionals to demonstrate the problems with the repairs. 
Its clearly caused her distress in both her personal and professional life. 
So I intend to require UKI to take steps to put things right. The difficulty I have here is 
apportioning it fair responsibility for mistakes and their impact. Its also a challenge to 
understand the likely impact on Mrs Hs business. 
Theres a variety of factors at play. Ive outlined some here. UKI shares liability for 
the repairs with Insurer B  the commercial buildings insurer. The same surveyor and 
construction firm was used by for both the residential and commercial parts of the 
claim. To add to the complexity theres a dispute between Mrs H and Insurer B about 
which of them instructed the construction firm for the commercial element. Either way 
UKIs only responsible for a proportion of the poor workmanship, and in turn, the 
impact of it on Mrs H. 
UKI appears to now accept mistakes were made with the repairs. But it feels Mrs Hs 
LA exacerbated matters by restricting access to the site - not allowing its agents to 
assess the work and respond to the Mrs H concerns. Having considered this I think 
its reasonable for UKI to say the LA was, as a result, responsible for some of the 
lack of progress in the claim. 
Furthermore I cant fairly say UKIs responsible for the claims lack of progress in the 
last nine months or so. Things stalled as result of its reasonable concerns (shared by 
Insurer B) about a recent tender process undertaken by the LA. 
As an added factor, Insurer B settled Mrs Hs claim with a significant cash payment - 
at her policys limit. UKIs indicated it also intends to cash settle Mrs Hs claim. In 
principle that seems a reasonable way to settle this entrenched dispute. With 
Insurer Bs payment, it should hopefully allow Mrs H to use her own contractors to 
reinstate the property. But at this point I dont know how much she would receive in 
total. This means its not clear if those total payments will be in excess of that 
required for reinstatement  and so allow a surplus to cover typical business 
interruption costs or to provide an element of compensation. 
Mrs H provided a list of losses and the impact on her shes feels UKIs responsible 
for. Ive considered them all. Im not going to address each in detail here. Instead Ill 
focus on the key ones. 
First of all, it wouldnt be fair to require UKI to pay for contents lost in the fire, as her 
policy doesnt cover contents.  Neither am I going to require UKI to reimburse her flat 
mortgage payments for the last few years. It seems likely she would have been required to pay these without any mistakes by the insurer. As far as Im aware there 
isnt any loss of residential rent. It seems a family member used the residential part at 
times, but I havent been told that rent was paid. And that family member, as a 
gesture of goodwill it seems, has had alternative accommodation funded by UKI. 
I dont intend to require UKI to contribute towards Mrs Hs legal costs for her dispute 
with the contractors. Im not currently persuaded its responsible for her involvement 
in that dispute. 
Mrs Hs commissioned various surveys and reports. Im satisfied these have 
highlighted reasonable concerns with the standard of repairs. So its fair for UKI to 
contribute towards these costs. I invite her to provide detail and evidence of her 
expenditure on buildings professional fees. Ill then require UKI to reimburse her 50% 
of those costs (a proportion based roughly on the split of responsibility between 
residential and commercial elements of the repairs). As shes been without the use of 
those funds UKI will need to add simple interest at 8% - from the date of payment to 
date of reimbursement. 
 
However, I dont intend to require UKI to make any contribution towards the cost of 
Mrs Hs LA. Im not persuaded its involvement was necessary. I think its likely she 
could have instructed engineers or surveyors to highlight issues with the work without 
its support. 
As I set out above, its difficult to say how much of the unnecessary delay, loss and 
distress is the responsibility of UKI. But its fair to say it is responsible for a 
reasonable amount of it. So in the absence of anything exact, I feel £4,000 (in 
addition to the professional fees contribution) would be a fair amount for UKI to pay 
her to recognise the impact of its mistakes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI says Mrs H didnt previously raise the engineer and surveyor fees with it  and if she 
had it could have reimbursed her interest being applied. It says its never been provided with 
invoices and feels the fees were paid by her LA.  
It may be correct that Mrs H has never specifically requested to UKI that she be reimbursed 
for these individual items  although shes certainly raised the LA charges. But UKI was 
aware of the reports. It knew they highlighted genuine issues with the planning and quality of 
its contractors work. It could have, with this knowledge and this services position, pro-
actively offered to contribute toward the costs. 
It may also be correct that the LA paid for the reports, Im not certain either way. But it 
seems likely Mrs H will be required to pay the LAs overall charge  with the report fees 
within that. Im not requiring UKI to pay the full LA fees, so theres no issue of double 
payment. So if Mrs H can provide evidence of payment of the surveyor and engineer fees 
(either directly or via the LA) then UKI will need to reimburse her the cost  plus simple 
interest from the date she paid the fees to the date of settlement.    
UKIs final point on the fees is in relation to concerns, referred to above, about the tender 
process. As far as Im aware those concerns are limited to that process, not the professional 
reports that highlighted issues with the quality of UKIs contractors work. UKI objected to my intention to require it to pay £4,000 to recognise an element of financial 
loss and compensation or distress and inconvenience. Its response focused on the financial 
loss element of the intended award. In summary it said it wasnt aware of, or provided any 
evidence of, any domestic insurance policy related financial losses. It said any financial loss 
is related to the Insurer B  the commercial insurer. Lastly it asks for explanation as to how I 
arrived at my award figure. 
I explained in my provisional decision the difficulty in coming to specific figure for financial 
loss, particularly in determining exact responsibility. Ill try not to repeat that in detail here. I 
havent requested documentary evidence of loss - beyond a statement and breakdown 
Mrs H provided for this service and UKI. 
However, Im persuaded Mrs Hs business is, and will continue to be, operating from 
alternative, smaller and less suitable premises for significantly longer than was necessary. I 
think its likely, without having to see detailed evidence, this will result in some additional 
costs (including rent) and/or loss of income (including reduced income). And as I explained 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied UKI (through the failures of its contractors) is 
responsible for a significant amount of the unnecessary extended occupation of the 
alternative premises. 
For clarity Im not saying UKI should pay this element of financial loss under the cover 
provided by Mrs Hs domestic policy  but because its poor handling of the domestic claim 
has contributed to the likely loss experienced by Mrs Hs business. As an example, its at 
least partly responsible for the contractor that mishandled the roof repair/rebuild  and that 
mishandling means Mrs Hs business will be in its alternative premises for longer than 
necessary. 
UKI says business interruption cover, provided by Insurer B, should cover financial loss. 
However, as has been explained to it previously, that provided only 24 months benefit  up 
to early 2022. As is clear, Mrs Hs business is continuing to occupy the alternative premises 
well beyond that date. Again something that I feel UKIs at least partly responsible for. So it 
should contribute towards the related financial loss. 
Id like to make it clear the award also includes compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.  UKIs previously been provided with Mrs Hs account of the impact of whats 
happened with this claim on her. So Im not going to cover that in detail here. 
A certain amount is to be expected with a claim of this nature  but UKI (again through the 
mistakes of its contractors) is responsible, for a portion at least, of the additional and 
prolonged distress and inconvenience. That includes distress caused by concern at the 
poor-quality construction work, the impact on her financial situation and her personal life. 
Theres been significant inconvenience caused by the contractors mistakes  for example 
having to instruct professionals to highlight the problems, continued lack of availability of the 
residential property for childcare and so on. 
So Im satisfied UKIs responsible for an element of financial loss and unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience. I need to come up with an amount to recognise that. For the reasons 
already given thats a difficult thing to do. With all the factors involved it wouldnt be a 
proportionate task. 
Id firstly perform a line-by-line breakdown of exact losses, distress, inconvenience. Id then 
need to compare that to all payments made by the two insurers (including one proposed but 
unknown cash settlement). Id further need to factor in any financial implications of the legal 
dispute with the contractor. Finally I would have to apportion reasonability, mistake by 
mistake, to each of those parties potentially responsible. So in line with the informal nature of this service I instead proposed a figure that seems broadly fair and reasonable to me. I still 
feel £4,000 would be a fair amount  so thats what I require UKI pay Mrs H. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require U K Insurance Limited to:
(on receipt of evidence payment) reimburse Mrs H 50% of the cost of her surveyor 
and engineer fees (adding simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to date of 
settlement) and
pay her £4,000 to cover financial loss and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman