DRN-2961134
The complaint
Mr Ws complained that American International Group UK Limited, trading as AIG UK (AIG) 
failed to replace the faulty phone they supplied to him after hed made a claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr W had a mobile phone insurance policy with AIG through his bank account.  The policy 
provided cover for his phone, and for those of his immediate family.  It states that, if a phone 
is damaged, AIGs agent  who Ill call B  would either repair the damage, or provide a 
refurbished replacement phone.  The excess is £50 for repairs, or £100 for replacement.  
Where a replacement is provided, B provides a 12 month warranty.
In September 2020, Mr W contacted AIG to make a claim for the loss of a phone belonging 
to a member of his family.  A couple of days later, he contacted them again to tell AIG the 
phone had been found, but was damaged.  AIG cancelled the loss claim and opened a new 
claim for the damage.  Mr W paid the £100 excess and received a replacement refurbished 
phone. 
Just under than a month later, one of the buttons on the replacement phone became stuck.  
Mr W contacted B to make a claim under the warranty.  But he was told the warranty only 
covered faults reported within 72 hours of him receiving the replacement  so Mr W couldnt 
make a warranty claim.  B told him that the fault would need to be considered as a new 
damage claim  which meant a second excess would be payable.
Mr W complained.  He didnt want to make a new damage claim as he said the phone was 
faulty  not damaged.  B investigated his complaint on behalf of AIG but rejected it.  So      
Mr W brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought AIG should do more to resolve it.  
They explained that warranties arent a regulated product  so we couldnt look at Bs 
decision that the phone wasnt covered by their warranty.  But they said AIG should have 
provided Mr W with a lasting replacement for the phone  not one which developed a fault in 
less than a month.   
They noted the phone hadnt been examined by AIG.  So they concluded that AIG should 
arrange for its collection and inspection to decide how the fault reported by Mr W had 
happened.  If AIG found the phone was faulty, the investigator said they should repair of 
replace it, or provide Mr W with a cash settlement equivalent to what it would cost them to do 
that.  But if AIG found the phone had been damaged, they should give Mr W the chance to 
make a new claim, subject to him paying the relevant excess.
Mr W accepted the rationale of the investigators view but told them he no longer had the 
phone  so he couldnt send it to be inspected.  The investigator revised their view to take 
account of this.  They said theyd researched the position and found the fault described by 
Mr W was a known issue with that make and model.  And they were satisfied that Mr Ws 
attempt to make a warranty claim evidenced his belief the phone was faulty not damaged.
But, because Mr W no longer had the phone, the investigator didnt think it was fair to send 
him a second replacement, as he was only entitled to one under the policy.  So they thought 
Mr W should be paid £100 compensation for not receiving a suitable replacement.
Mr W accepted our investigators view.  AIG didnt.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to expect a replacement phone to last 
beyond a few weeks.  While I cant consider any concerns Mr W may have had about the 
warranty provided by B, Ive noted theres a term in his insurance policy which states 
replacement phones come with a 12 month warranty.  So I think its reasonable to expect 
that most replacements should last at least that long.
I appreciate a phone might be damaged within 12 months  and sometimes very soon after 
its acquired.  AIGs position is that must be the case. 
Mr W says the phone wasnt damaged, but it developed a fault. The phone is no longer 
available to be examined.  So I have to decide whether Im persuaded the issue was more 
likely to be caused by damage, or by a fault.
Mr W is the only party to have seen the phone since it stopped working.  Ive no reason to 
doubt his assertion the phone wasnt damaged.  Ive weighed this against the assertion 
made by AIG.  Theyve said the issue reported indicates the faulty button had been put 
under sustained pressure, over and above what it would normally be subjected to.  
Ive thought about what AIG have said.  Theyve not explained how they reached their 
conclusion  or why they dont think there could be another cause.  And nothing Ive seen 
shows they asked Mr W for the opportunity to examine the phone before concluding the 
issue was caused by damage.  So Im not persuaded its unfair for me to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint on the basis it cant be examined now.
And Ive noted the investigator researched the issue and found it to be a known problem with 
the make and model phone Mr W had.  Thats persuaded me the problem cant simply be 
put down to one thing, as AIG have suggested.  And I think, on balance, its more likely the 
button became stuck due to a known issue than because it was somehow damaged without 
Mr Ws knowledge.  And that means AIG didnt provide him with a lasting replacement.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about how to put things right here.  I agree with our investigator that it 
wouldnt be fair to say AIG should replace the phone, as its not available for them to assess 
it to decide whether it should be replaced under the terms of the policy.
But I am satisfied that AIG didnt do what they should have done and provide Mr W with a 
lasting replacement.  I think they should compensate him for not doing that.  And I think £100 
is a fair amount of compensation for Mr W to receive. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about American International 
Group UK Limited, trading as AIG UK and directing they pay him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience they caused him by supplying a faulty replacement phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman