DRN-2794910
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc unreasonably refused to allow him to port his mortgage to 
a new property. He wants TSB to put him back in the position he would have been in and 
allow him six months to port the mortgage to another property.
What happened
Mr S took out a mortgage with TSB in 2009. It was taken out on an interest only basis and 
over a 15 year term.
Mr S contacted TSB in July 2018 as he wished to purchase a new property and wanted to 
stay with TSB. But his application was declined on affordability.
Mr S complained to TSB about the decision. And he also complained about poor 
communication from TSB. 
TSB responded to his complaint. It didnt agree that it had made an error in refusing to allow 
him to port the mortgage. But it apologised for the communication he had received and the 
time taken to deal with his complaint. And it offered him £100 compensation plus a further 
£50 for any expenses he may have incurred in getting in touch. 
TSB subsequently offered Mr S an additional £25 compensation for its delays in getting back 
to him.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt think that TSB had acted reasonably. She said, in summary:
Under the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) a business may waive the 
usual affordability requirements where the application doesnt involve further 
borrowing and there are no other changes to the terms of the mortgage likely to be 
material to affordability;
Mr S had said that he wasnt requesting further borrowing. And although TSB had 
said that Mr S was looking to borrow more than the redemption amount on his 
mortgage she was inclined to believe Mr S;
As there werent any other changes to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material 
to affordability she felt that TSB could have waived the requirement for an 
affordability check;
In deciding whether to waive the affordability check TSB must take its customers 
best interests into account. TSB had said it was prompted to carry out the 
assessment because of the changes to Mr Ss income. But she didnt feel that this 
made it necessary or in Mr Ss best interests to carry out the affordability 
assessment;
Mr S had said that as a result of the porting application being declined he had been 
unable to purchase the property he wanted, and ended up buying a smaller property. 
But she felt that, in the circumstances, there hadnt been a financial loss.
She did think that TSB should compensate Mr S for his distress and inconvenience 
caused by his application being declined. And she felt that TSB should pay Mr S a 
further £300 on top of the payments it had already offered. 
TSB didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the application was for more than 
the redemption balance of the previous mortgage and that it was therefore correct to 
consider affordability.
Mr S also didnt agree with our investigators view. He said in particular that the suggested 
compensation was insufficient to compensate for the severe disruption his family had 
suffered. And he said that TSB should have abided by the terms and conditions of its 
contract with him.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 1 April 2021. I said, in summary:
As our investigator had explained, under MCOB 11.6.3 a firm can waive its usual 
affordability requirements if:
The application doesnt involve further borrowing (except to add fees to the loan); 
and
There is no other change to the terms of the mortgage likely to be material to 
affordability.
I appreciated that TSB says that Mr S was asking for additional borrowing. It said that 
he had requested to borrow around £480,000 whereas the redemption amount for 
the mortgage was for around £460,000. But Mr S said that he hadnt asked for 
additional borrowing. And, having listened to the recording of his call with TSB I 
agreed that he made it clear he didnt want to borrow more. So I was satisfied that 
TSB made an error when it considered Mr Ss application on the basis that he would 
be taking out further borrowing.
MCOB 11.6.3 allows  but doesnt require  a lender to forego an affordability 
assessment during an application. Under MCOB 11.6.3, an affordability assessment 
is not required where the borrower wants to make a change to the terms of the 
mortgage that doesnt involve additional borrowing or is not otherwise material to the 
affordability of the mortgage.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, I was provisionally 
persuaded that it was unfair of TSB to rely on the outcome of the affordability 
assessment as a reason for declining the application. Mr S had demonstrated that he 
could maintain the mortgage payments. I didnt think the change Mr S wanted to 
make  porting his mortgage with no additional borrowing - was a change that was 
material to the affordability of the mortgage.
TSB had said that there were other changes to Mr Ss circumstances that meant it 
was justified in carrying out an affordability assessment. But I provisionally agreed 
with our investigator that these changes didnt mean that MCOB 11.6.3 could not be 
applied to allow TSB to waive the affordability checks because those changes 
werent material to the affordability of the mortgage.
Overall, I was provisionally persuaded that TSB should have relied on MCOB 11.6.3 
and waived the affordability assessment in the circumstances of this case.
Given that Mr S moved to a smaller property I agreed with our investigator that he 
hadnt suffered any financial loss as a result of TSBs error. But in order to put Mr S 
back in the position he should have been in, I was provisionally persuaded that TSB 
should allow Mr S the opportunity to apply to port his mortgage to another property if 
he chose to make an application within six months of the date of my final decision. 
And, provided Mr Ss application fell within the terms of MCOB 11.6.3, TSB should 
waive its usual affordability requirements when considering his application although it would be entitled to apply its other lending criteria to Mr Ss application, provided it 
did so fairly.
I also provisionally agreed that Mr S had suffered distress and inconvenience as a 
result of TSB failing to consider his application fairly. Our investigator suggested that 
TSB should pay him an additional £300 on top of the compensation already offered 
to him. And, although I appreciated that Mr S felt that this was insufficient, I was 
provisionally persuaded that it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has responded to my provisional decision. It says that it was correct to decline Mr Ss 
porting application as MCOB 11.6.3 does not apply where the customer is taking on 
additional borrowing beyond the amount currently outstanding. And it says that Mr Ss 
application was for more than the outstanding borrowing. It also says that the term was 
longer and the loan to value on the new borrowing was higher than on the existing mortgage.
Mr S has also responded to my provisional decision at some length. He says in particular 
that he and his family have suffered a great deal of upheaval and cost as a result of TSBs 
action.
Ive considered what TSB and Mr S have to say but, having done so, I havent been 
persuaded to change my decision. While I appreciate that the application showing on its 
systems was for more than the amount outstanding on the existing mortgage, as Ive set out 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that this was as a result of TSBs error, and that Mr S 
didnt wish to borrow more than the amount outstanding.
Equally, although I appreciate that Mr S and his family moved into rented accommodation 
and then bought a smaller property than the one Mr S originally wished to buy, I note that the 
property Mr S was interested in buying sold quite quickly. So I cant be certain that he would 
have been successful in buying that property even if TSB had agreed the porting application. 
And I remain of the view that my suggested redress is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent been persuaded to change my decision, I confirm it here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to:
pay Mr S £300 compensation in addition to the compensation already offered to him;
allow Mr S the opportunity to make an application to port his mortgage within six 
months from the date of my final decision and waive its usual affordability 
requirements when considering that application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman