DRN-4076576
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Unum Limited stopped making payments to her following a successful 
claim on a group income protection insurance policy she had the benefit of.
What happened
Mrs A had the benefit of an income protection insurance (the policy) through her employer, 
the policyholder. Subject to the remaining terms, the policy can pay out a monthly benefit if 
Mrs A was unable to work due to illness after the deferred period.
In 2019, Mrs A made a successful claim on the policy and Unum paid the monthly benefit 
until July 2022, when it concluded that Mrs A no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity. It did make an additional payment equivalent to three months benefit. Mrs A 
appealed that decision. Unum issued its final response letter in October 2022 maintaining its 
decision to stop paying the monthly benefit under the policy. However, in recognition of her 
situation and to help support Mrs A in her transition away from payments under the policy, 
and without admission of liability, it made a further one-off payment equal to three months 
worth of benefit.
Unhappy, Mrs A complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and 
didnt uphold her complaint. As Mrs A didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me to 
consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and 
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When making a claim, its for Mrs A to establish that she met the definition of incapacity. She 
was able to do that, and the monthly benefit was paid. As Unum terminated the claim - its 
for it to show that Mrs A no longer met the definition of incapacity, based on medical 
evidence. Its not for Mrs A to show that she continued to do so.
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy
Ive included below some of the terms of the policy I think are relevant to this complaint.
A member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation.
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity.
Material and substantial duties mean: the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or other 
employer.
The insured occupation doesnt include:
Work activities, contractual or not, which the member undertook for, or at, the 
employer prior to incapacity which are not a common feature of the members trade, 
profession or general role
The specific manner in which the member was expected to complete work tasks for a 
specific employer or at a specific location
Any trade, profession or general role undertaken by the member of than for the 
employer
The journey between the members normal residence and the members normal 
place of work.
The policy also lists the circumstances in which Unum will stop paying benefits under the 
policy and one of these is if the member (so in this case Mrs A), no longer meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
Did Unum act fairly and reasonably when terminating Mrs As claim?
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum reasonably terminated Mrs As claim, when it did. Having done so, for the 
reasons set out below, I think it has. 
As of July 2022, when the decision was taken by Unum to stop paying the monthly 
benefit under the policy, I dont think it unreasonably concluded that Mrs A no longer 
met the policy definition of incapacity. 
In an interview between Mrs A and Unums representative dated June 2022 (so a 
month before the decision was taken to terminate the claim), its reflected that Mrs 
As perceived barriers to returning to work are tiredness, leg pain, sweating and 
concentration. She no longer had a role with the policyholder, and she couldnt 
imagine anyone employing her in a role previous to level she was doing before she 
started sick leave. However, in the absence of Mrs As GP  or other medical 
professional  setting out the specific reasons why she was unable to return to work, 
I dont think Unum has unfairly relied on the opinion of its chief medical officer that 
the overall medical evidence doesnt indicate the ongoing presence of a medical 
condition that significantly impaired Mrs As functional capacity in relation to her role.
Mrs A was initially unable to work because she became ill with breast cancer and a 
successful claim was made on the policy for the monthly benefit. Letters from Mrs As 
consultant oncoplastic breast surgeon dated September 2021and February 2022 
reflect that there were no palpable lumps in either breast or armpit and no evidence 
of local or regional occurrence. And although, Mrs A did have a CT scan to rule out a 
relapse/secondary breast cancer, she was advised in March 2022 that her results 
were normal with no concerning features.Mrs As GP notes reflect that she was experiencing pain in her legs and hips, and 
shed initially put this down to having chemotherapy. The pain was particularly worse 
at night and could be agitated by walking her dogs. MRI results showed evidence of 
bilateral trochanteric bursitis in 2022. She was given exercises to do and prescribed 
painkillers. However, during interviews with Mrs A and Unums representatives in 
2022, Mrs A said she was able to regularly walk her dogs and although she may 
have only been able to walk at her own pace, I dont think Unum has unreasonably 
concluded that her leg pain wouldnt have prevented her from doing the material and 
substantial duties of the insured occupation as defined by the policy.
Mrs As medical records also reflect that she was very tired on a daily basis, with 
disturbed sleep at night and was experiencing hot sweats. Mrs A said this all 
impacted her concentration. And although her asthma was usually well controlled, in 
May 2022, its reflected that she was having to regularly manage this condition with 
medication. It was reported by Mrs A during this time that she felt unable to cope 
psychologically with a return to work. 
In April 2022, Unum asked Mrs As GP for a report covering five specific areas  one 
included: is there any ongoing medical reason why Mrs A should not or could not 
now engage with a phased return to work in a sedentary to light occupation? When 
responding the GP confirmed Unums summary of Mrs As medical history was 
correct and provided a report covering the areas requested by Unum. However, 
importantly in this case, the GP didnt provide an answer to whether there was any 
ongoing medical reason why Mrs A couldnt engage with a phased return to work. Or 
explain why, in their view, she wouldnt be able to return to work.
Mrs A says the decision taken by Unum was based on an incomplete job description; 
that it isnt fair for Unum to deem her role to be sedentary, and that her role involved 
UK and international travel. The job description Unum and Mrs A has provided are 
the same. Mrs As job description does list a number of key responsibilities, in line 
with her seniority but looking at the job description, I dont think Unum has unfairly 
concluded that the role was primarily sedentary  which means its desk-based, can 
be done whilst seated and doesnt require much physical activity. Whilst the job 
description lists Mrs As location as being as required, the insured occupation 
doesnt include travel from her home to her usual place of work. Mrs A says she 
travelled once a week to a particular city in the UK, and sometimes internationally, for 
work. However, the job description doesnt say travel is an essential part of her role 
and, even if it was, theres nothing to suggest that this requirement couldnt have 
been modified or adjusted if needed.
Mrs A has also asked where shes expected to find a role at a similar level, that 
requires no travel and is paid equivalent to the role shed been doing before the start 
of her sick leave, where theres a five-year gap in her CV due to ill health. I 
understand the points Mrs A makes and I know she has been through a very difficult 
time. However, whats relevant here is whether she continued to meet the definition 
of incapacity under the terms of the policy, not how likely she is to now find another 
job, with equivalent seniority, responsibilities and salary going forwards, given her 
role has now gone. 
I appreciate that Mrs A had been out of work for a few years and why she wouldnt 
have felt confident to have returned to work doing the role shed been doing 
previously. I think Unum fairly and reasonably acknowledged this by ultimately 
agreeing to pay her a sum equivalent to six months benefit in recognition that a 
return to work would initially have been on a gradual basis given her long absence 
from the workplace. I know Mrs A will be very disappointed with my decision. But I hope it helps her to know that 
her concerns have been considered by someone independent of the parties. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman