DRN-3136031
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited treated him unfairly by declining his claim under
his home insurance policy with them.
Mr B is represented throughout by his mother Mrs O.  
What happened
Mr B had an existing home insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI). In mid-May
2020, Mr B became severely unwell due to a gas entering his property from the third-party
property below his own when they were cooking using a specific type of oil.
The gas and smell permeated through Mr Bs home and contents and Mr B was unable to
return home due to a severe allergic reaction. So Mrs O contacted UKI to make a claim
under Mr Bs policy on his behalf. She asked that UKI arrange for the cleaning of the
property to remove the oily residue which had been left from when the gas had cooled down,
and the replacement of any contents which couldnt be cleaned or returned to the state they
were in before the gas had entered Mr Bs property.
Initially the claim had been made as accidental damage, however UKI felt because Mrs O
had said the damage had been caused deliberately that the insured peril would be malicious
damage. UKI reviewed the claim over an extended period and intermittently gave Mrs O
conflicting information that the claim would be paid.
However, in mid-January 2021, UKI decided the claim wasnt covered under accidental
damage as it wasnt one single event - and theyd been told by Mrs O it was likely to have
been done on purpose by the third-party. They also decided it couldnt be covered under
malicious damage as they had no way to prove the third-party had intentionally caused the
damage to Mr Bs property as there hadnt been any police charges or a conviction.
Mrs O was unhappy with this and raised a complaint. She said shed given UKI all the
information available and shed been told conflicting information about the claim being
covered.
UKI upheld the complaint in part. They agreed Mrs O had been given conflicting information
when making the claim, so they apologised and offered £200 compensation. However, they
said although both accidental damage and malicious damage were perils covered under
Mr Bs policy, they didnt think the event leading to the claim came under either of these.
They said it couldnt be accidental damage as Mrs O had told them she felt it was a
malicious act by the third party towards Mr B. And for it to be malicious damage, there would
need to be evidence to support this  such as a charge or conviction of the third party. Mrs O
didnt think this was fair, so she asked this service to look into the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said UKI had agreed that
both accidental damage and malicious damage were covered under the policy, but the
circumstances of the claim didnt meet either of these definitions.
She said although there had been well documented issues with the third-party, it wasnt
possible to say they were causing damage from the smell intentionally  which was also
confirmed in the police report of May 2020. So she thought UKI had fairly declined the claim
on the basis there wasnt sufficient evidence other than what appeared to be cooking smells.
The investigator agreed UKI had made mistakes in how theyd deal with the claim initially
and the conflicting information Mrs O had been given. However she felt the apology and
£200 compensation UKI had offered was enough to put things right.
Mrs O didnt agree. She felt it was unreasonable theyd been told theyd have to prove the
third-party had intentionally damaged Mr Bs property for it to be malicious damage.
So she asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 October 2021. I said the following: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In this case its not disputed by either party that Mr Bs policy covers both accidental damage
and malicious damage as insured perils. However, what the parties dont agree on is
whether Mr Bs claim should be covered under either peril. UKI have said they dont feel it
can be accidental damage as its more of a gradual cause, and because Mrs O told them the
damage to Mr Bs property was done maliciously by the third-party. Therefore the root cause
of the claim cant differ to what theyve been told was the cause.
But I dont agree. I say this because UKI have declined Mr Bs claim as malicious damage
because theyve said there is no persuasive evidence to prove this, and they couldnt
reasonably know the third-parties intent. They also said the only persuasive evidence they
could accept to show this was malicious was if a charge or conviction had happened to the
third-party from the police. And as there wasnt evidence of this, they didnt think Mr B could
claim under this peril.
However, Ive seen that UKI have based their assumption the damage was caused
maliciously on Mr Bs allegation, and Mrs O telling them she felt the third-party had boiled
the oil they were using purposely to create a gas rather than simply cooking with it. But I
dont think it was reasonable for UKI to do this. Firstly, Mrs O isnt a specialist and wouldnt
be aware of what caused the extreme level of gas on this particular occasion which had such
a detrimental effect to her son  not to mention the emotional position Mrs O would have felt
as her son was extremely unwell when she made the claim to UKI on his behalf.
Secondly, UKI themselves have said that as the police who attended the property havent
pressed charges, they cant say there was intent by the third-party to damage Mr Bs
property. This also means by the same measure UKI cant reasonably say the damage to
Mr Bs property wasnt caused by an accident.
I havent seen any evidence showing this wasnt an accident other than Mrs Os opinion and
statement about historical disagreements with the third-party - which still doesnt mean this
wasnt an accidental event. And because of the relationship with the third-party, I dont think
Mr B or Mrs O would have been able or inclined to question the circumstances which caused
the extreme haze and smell on this specific occasion - which then severely damaged Mr Bs
contents from the oily residue and absorption of the gas particles into the various fabrics
throughout the property.UKI have provided us with the definition of accidental damage under their policy. To meet
this definition, they say that the event causing the damage which led to the claim must be
sudden, unintentional and cause physical damage. Ive looked at the Physical Damage part
of the definition first as this seems to be clearest in this case. Both UKI and Mrs O arranged
for contamination experts to attend Mr Bs property and Ive seen a report from one of the
experts which said they could clean the property but for some items such as the sofas and
mattresses, cleaning wouldnt resolve the issue so they would need replacing.
There were also notes to say the contents smelt of the mustard gas and there was an oily
residue on Mr Bs contents. Given that Mr Bs home and contents now appear to have an
altered state because of the smell, haze and residue - which has made them less valuable - I
think its reasonable to feel there has been physical damage.
The second part of the definition Ill look at is the sudden aspect i.e. the event happened
very quickly and without warning. And I also feel this part of the definition has been met. I
say this because, although Mr B and Mrs O have said there were previous instances of
smells and some haze in the flat which they believe occurred when the third-party was
cooking, theyve both said this event was different. Mrs O has also told us that this time there
wasnt just smells but a significant amount of gas entered the property  and has shown
photographs of this.
In addition, the experts have said there was an oily residue on Mr Bs property which neither
Mr B or Mrs O have said happened previously. Ive also seen the statement from Mr Bs
friend which refers to previous smells and levels of haze being cleared by opening the
property windows but nothing about the residue. However, based on the evidence Ive seen
from all parties this was a different event with a different level of damage which based on the
experts opinion wouldnt clear just from opening the windows.
UKI have said they have statements from Mr B and Mrs O saying they feel this was
malicious. Theyve also provided a statement from a friend of Mr B saying that the damage
was taking place over a period of time rather than one event. However, all of these
statements referring to previous smells and the effect on Mr Bs property imply that this was
when the third-party was cooking, and that opening windows relieved most - if not all - of the
smell and haze in Mr Bs property.
However, I dont think these previous instances have relevance to this specific claim. I say
this because although there were previous instances where Mr B may have noticed the
smell or haze, there didnt seem to be any significant impact on Mr B. This occasion appears
to have been one large event that caused Mr B to become severely unwell and has meant
he hasnt been able to return to the property due to the damage from both the absorption of
the gas into the materials around his property, and the oily residue left across the contents,
walls and ceilings and loft insulation. So I think its more likely the event was sudden and
significant rather than something that has gradually built up over time. And Im persuaded
this claim has arisen from one event which took place in May 2020.
This leads me to the final part of the definition - was the damage unintentional. This is the
part of the claim which has generated both the most emotive response and is the most
difficult to prove. Its also the part most closely linked to the malicious damage peril  as
intent would imply the event was malicious  which as UKI have said in this case cannot be
proven and was the reason the insurer gave for declining Mr Bs claim.
So using the same rationale, this would mean UKI cant reasonably say the damage wasnt
unintentional. I think its worth noting here that although Mr B and Mrs O have said there was
a fractious relationship with the third party, theres no evidence the circumstances of theevent of May 2020 were expected. I think its entirely plausible that this was a genuine
accident, for example the oil which caused the gas may have inadvertently been left on a
cooker which then filtered through the property floors. And I havent seen any evidence
which shows this wasnt the case and the circumstances of the event was nothing more than
an accident.
UKI had concerns that if they paid Mr Bs claim as accidental damage it could prejudice any
further action against the third-party. But Im not persuaded thats reasonable, I say this
because as UKI have already stated, there hasnt been any intent proven for this specific
claim and their decision to pay this claim would be unrelated to any further action.
If another such event did take place  bearing in mind the police have already said they
would become involved should this happen  then I think it would be fair to treat this as a
separate claim, should Mr B need to raise one. However, this is speculation as there isnt
anything to suggest this would happen again as this may have just been an accidental event.
Since the complaint has been brought to the service, UKI have also said they feel another
exclusion should be applied to the claim. The insurer feels that because the policy says, we
dont cover any loss, damage or legal liability caused by pollution or contamination unless its
caused by oil leaking from any fixed heating installation in your home or from any domestic
appliance in your home that Mr Bs claim wouldnt be covered.
However, I havent seen any definition in the policy for pollution or contamination and I dont
think its fair for this exclusion to apply. I say this because a common definition of pollution is
the presence in or introduction into the environment of a substance which has harmful or
poisonous effects and the definition of contamination is making something impure or
unsuitable by contact with something unclean.
In this case the cause of the gas and subsequent oily-residue has been widely accepted as
the third-party cooking with a specific form of oil. Therefore I dont agree it meets the
definition as its not a harmful or poisonous substance, and it doesnt have poisonous effects
 unless such as in this case someone was allergic to it. Which again, its been accepted by
Mr B, Mrs O and UKI that the third-party couldnt have known Mr B would have such an
adverse reaction to the widely available cooking ingredient.
With regards to the contamination part of the exclusion, looking at the claim, I think its fair to
say that contents havent been made impure theyve been damaged by a gas which turned
into an oily residue. There is nothing to suggest that the oil was unclean when it touched
Mr Bs contents or that they are now somehow unsuitable. However what is evident is that
Mr Bs property has been damaged and although the contents are still usable, they dont
have the same value or physical state they had before the event took place.
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think UKI have treated Mr B fairly by declining his claim
under the accidental damage peril. I think it would have been reasonable for them to give the
benefit of doubt that the event that caused Mr Bs claim was an accident. I say this because
UKI had no evidence showing this wasnt the case and in their own words that couldnt prove
there was any intent to cause damage to Mr Bs property.
Putting things right
For all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think UKI have dealt with Mr Bs claim fairly
and reasonably. To put things right I am intending to say UKI should reconsider Mr Bs claim
under the accidental damage peril.
Its also clear that UKIs handling of Mr Bs claim has caused him distress and inconvenienceso I think UKI should increase the compensation theyve paid from £200 to £500 to address
this.
I invited Mr B and UKI to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Both Mr B and UKI accepted my provisional 
decision, and neither party had anything more to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both Mr B and UKI responded to say they accepted my decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, U K Insurance Limited should do the following:
Reconsider Mr Bs claim under the accidental damage peril;
Pay Mr B a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman