DRN-3521285
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK Plc registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database. He doesnt think its done so fairly. 
What happened
Mr K held an account with Barclays  he opened this at the start of June 2021. On 18 June, 
his account was credited with £5,600 through bank transfers. Immediately afterwards nearly 
all the money was withdrawn through bank transfers and paid to another business (a crypto 
currency exchange business).
Later the same day, payments into Mr Ks account were identified as fraudulent - the bank 
from which the funds had come told Barclays their customer had been the victim of a scam. 
Barclays froze the account and wrote to Mr K on 21 June asking him to contact it with 
information about the payments. Following a review, Barclays wrote to Mr K giving 
immediate notice to close the account. 
Mr K says he only discovered what had happened after the event and when other banks also 
closed his accounts. He contacted Barclays to find out what had happened and made a 
subject access request to CIFAS. CIFAS told Mr K that Barclays had placed a misuse of 
facility marker against him. 
Mr K explained he opened his Barclays account with the view to use it at university for 
student finance and therefore had no need to check or use the account until then. He said he 
didnt know anything about the fraud and didnt think Barclays had treated him fairly. But 
Barclays didnt think the fraud could have happened without Mr Ks knowledge or 
involvement. It believed it had correctly registered the CIFAS marker and closed the 
account. It wouldnt agree to remove it. Mr K also asked CIFAS to look into things - it 
concluded Barclays had enough evidence to support the loading on its database. 
Mr K referred matters to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. Ultimately, she 
thought that Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances because its evidence showed the 
payments had been made using Mr Ks mobile banking app and from a mobile device that 
matched Mr Ks number. And as hed said he hadnt disclosed his mobile banking 
information/passcodes to anyone she couldnt understand how the payments could have 
been made unless Mr K was complicit in some way. 
Mr K told us about the difficulties he had had in opening a new account and the impact this 
has had on him. He stressed he had no knowledge of the fraud and provided detailed 
information, which showed he was working on the day the payments and that he hadnt 
benefitted from the money. He felt his Barclays mobile banking app may have been hacked 
and this had happened to his Apple ID. He said this explained how the fraud could have 
occurred on a different device using his mobile and banking app details. He said the 
fraudster couldve switched off notifications, so he didnt get any information from Barclays. 
The adjudicator didnt change her mind, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, its not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K is guilty of a fraud of 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says, there must be reasonable grounds to believe that an 
identified fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted and the evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Ks account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr K was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of 
proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth 
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the 
opportunity to explain the activity on their account to understand their level of knowledge and 
intention. 
Mr K has provided a lot of detailed information about his whereabouts when the fraud 
occurred. Hes also provided information relating to his other accounts and told us about the  
impact the marker has had on him. I want to reassure Mr K that have read and considered 
all of this as part of my review. 
I note that CIFAS looked into Mr Ks case and having done so, it was satisfied Barclays had 
enough information to make the filing to it. I need to decide whether I think Barclays has 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ks account and he was complicit. 
And Im satisfied it has. Ill explain why.
 
Ive seen evidence from Barclays that it received a report from a third-party bank saying that 
the funds which entered Mr Ks account on 18 June 2021 were fraudulent. Mr K doesnt 
dispute this  but advises he had no knowledge of any of this.  
Once the funds entered Mr Ks account, a number of transfers were quickly carried out to the 
same payee/recipient (a crypto currency exchange business) using the Barclays mobile 
banking app registered to Mr Ks account.  Ive reviewed Barclays mobile banking records 
and these show that someone logged into the mobile app before, during and after the 
payments using a device registered to his mobile number. Mr K says this wasnt him and no 
one else knew his mobile banking details and passwords as hed never disclosed or shared 
them. And his phone wasnt missing.  So, I agree with the investigator in that its difficult to 
see how someone could have done this without his knowledge.
Mr K has said someone had his Apple ID (it had been hacked) and this explains how they 
could have carried out the fraud using his device and app details. So, Ive thought carefully 
about this. However, based on the available evidence Im not convinced this is how the 
transactions were carried out. I say this because, prior to the fraud on 18 June 2021, the 
only other transaction on the account was a £2.00 payment in on 4 June, which was then 
paid out the same day, to the same crypto currency exchange business. Mr Ks account was opened at the beginning of June, so this wasnt long at all before the initial payment was 
made. Mr K says he has no knowledge of this either. But if this was genuinely an unknown 
fraudster, I think its highly unlikely theyd wait 14 days before using the account again to 
move significant funds through it. Because an unknown fraudster wouldnt know if the 
account holder had checked their account and spotted the initial payment and payee details 
and reported it to the bank. It ran the risk that the account may have already been blocked, 
thus rendering the fraud redundant. Also, I cant see that any of Mr Ks other financial 
accounts were similarly targeted. So, I dont consider this likely.  
Ive considered Mr Ks explanation for where he was and what he was doing. But this doesnt 
mean he wasnt checking his account and facilitating the payments or allowing someone 
else to do so on his behalf with his permission.  The payments didnt take very long to make. 
Based on the evidence, I conclude this is the most plausible explanation and so is most 
likely what happened here. And it must be noted the funds didnt need to have been 
transferred into his currency exchange account either for a misuse of facility to occur.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ks personal situation and the difficulties hes facing, but Im not 
going to require Barclays to do anything further here. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I 
think Barclays followed the relevant guidance when loading a fraud marker against Mr K and 
closing his account in the given circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman