Complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with loans 
in 2001 and 2002. The policies covered Mr B only. Mr B and Miss P say Nationwide Building 
Society mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Miss Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI policies werent mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr B and Miss P that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr B and Miss P say they werent told they could opt-out of the PPI and 
still take the loans.
Nationwide has said both policies were sold over the phone. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest there were any systemic problems with Nationwides telephone sales practices at 
the time of the sales.
Nationwide has also sent us copies of the loan agreements for the loans. These both set out 
the monthly payment, interest charged and total amount payable both with and without PPI. 
The PPI is also described as optional.
Based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Nationwide did make it clear to Mr B and 
Miss P that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr B and Miss P chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mr B and Miss P any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to them. This means 
Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr B and Miss P. But it did have to 
make sure they got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B and Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The 
policies couldve paid out for longer than Mr B and Miss P have told us Mr B wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And Mr B and Miss P have said they didnt have any other means of 
making their loan repayments. So I think the PPI would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mr B and Miss P off taking it out.
DRN-1132663My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman