DRN-4115561
The complaint
Mr R complains about how The New India Assurance Company Limited handled a claim on 
his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to New India includes the actions of its agents.  
What happened
Mr R was driving along and hit some debris which was on the road. This caused his pickup 
to veer off to the left and it collided with a parked car. Mr R therefore called New India to 
claim on his policy. As he was unable to get through to New India he arranged for recovery 
of his pickup to a garage. Mr R then called New India the next day who said it would collect 
the pickup and deal with the claim. 
Mr R said around two weeks later the garage contacted him to say his pickup was still there. 
The garage also said that New India had sent someone to collect it but wouldnt pay the 
recovery garages storage fees and so left the vehicle with the garage. Mr R therefore paid 
the garages storage fees and for another recovery to his home address where the pickup 
stayed until New India agreed to deal with the claim. 
Mr Rs pickup was ultimately repaired under his insurance policy with New India. Once it was 
returned to him he complained to New India. He said the claim had taken too long and hed 
incurred unnecessary costs due to New Indias poor claim handling. In particular, hed had to 
pay for recovery of his pickup, storage costs, an engineers report and also to hire another 
vehicle while his was being repaired. He asked New India to cover these costs. 
New India didnt issue a response to Mr Rs complaint within eight weeks so he referred it 
here. Once the complaint was referred here New India agreed to cover some of the costs Mr 
R had incurred. It said it would pay the £886 for storage costs, £168 for recovery to Mr Rs 
home address and £216 recovery to the garage. New India said the hire vehicle costs 
werent covered under the policy and so it didnt agree to cover them. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that Mr 
R had also paid £135 for an engineers report which she thought New India should cover as 
its a cost he shouldnt have had. Our investigator also thought New India had delayed the 
claim and so hed incurred more hire costs for the replacement vehicle then he would have 
had if the claim had been dealt with promptly. She therefore recommended New India cover 
25 days of hire costs as this was the delay it had caused. She asked New India to pay Mr R 
the £36 per day hed paid for the hire vehicle, totalling £900 and also recommended New 
India pay Mr R £300 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr R responded and accepted our investigators outcome. New India responded and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. It said it didnt accept the charges but didnt give further 
reasons as to why it didnt accept them. 
As New India didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with a claim there is a requirement for New India to do so promptly and so Ive 
looked at whether its done so when handling Mr Rs claim. Mr R said when he called to 
report the accident, he was unable to get through. I can also see from the contact notes with 
New India that the first record it has for the claim is the day after the incident when Mr R did 
manage to speak with it which Im satisfied supports Mr Rs testimony. 
I can also see from the contact notes that there was some discussion about whether the 
issue with Mr Rs pickup was something his policy covered as New India thought the cause 
of the accident might be mechanical failure. Because of this Mr R had to pay £135 for a 
report to show what caused the damage to the steering. It was ultimately decided this was a 
claim his policy covered but due to the delay in this being decided the repairs to Mr Rs 
pickup didnt start until around two months after the incident. From looking at the claim 
journey our investigator concluded there were around 25 days of delays. Mr R accepted this, 
and New India hasnt disputed it. Also, from looking at the claim journey, Im satisfied New 
India has caused 25 days worth of delay and should therefore compensate Mr R for this. 
Mr R said he had to hire a replacement vehicle while his was being repaired. While I agree 
the policy doesnt cover a hire vehicle while his is being repaired, as Im satisfied New India 
caused 25 days of delays. It follows that it should pay the costs of the hire vehicle for the 25 
days of delays it caused, as Mr R wouldnt have incurred these costs if it had dealt with the 
claim sooner. Mr R paid £36 a day for the hire vehicle, therefore New India needs to pay Mr 
R £900 to compensate him for additional hire costs he incurred due to New Indias delays in 
handling his claim. New India should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount, 
calculated from the date Mr R paid the hire car costs until the date it makes payment to 
compensate him for not having the money. 
Mr R also had to pay £135 for a report to show his claim was covered. Im satisfied Mr R had 
made a valid claim for accidental damage involving a third partys car. So, while New India 
had questions over the cause of the accident it was for New India rely on a policy term and 
show it wasnt covered, rather than Mr R to show it was. And, as this is a cost he shouldnt 
have incurred, New India also needs to pay Mr R the £135 he paid for this report. As with the 
hire costs above New India should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount as 
well to compensate Mr R for not having the money. 
I can see New India has already agreed to cover the £886 Mr R paid for storage of his 
pickup; it also agreed to pay the two recovery costs of £168 and £216. As New India has 
agreed to pay these, and Mr R has accepted these costs I see no reason to make a finding 
on them here. 
When considering the overall claim handling, in my view, New India hasnt handled the claim 
as well as it should have done. Mr R has had to arrange recovery himself, pay additional 
costs he should have had to pay and also chase New India on multiple occasions. Im 
satisfied £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for this and so New India also needs to 
pay Mr R £300 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused by its poor claim 
handling. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
The New India Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr R:1. £886 for storage
2. £168 for recovery of his pickup to his home address
3. £216 for recovery to the garage
4. £135 for the report on his pickup
5. £900 towards the hire costs he paid for a replacement vehicle while his claim was 
being dealt with
6. £300 for distress and inconvenience
For items 1,2,3,4 and 5 above, The New India Assurance Company Limited also needs to 
add 8% simple interest to what Mr R paid from the date he paid it until the date settlement is 
made. If The New India Assurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman