DRN-3464384
The complaint
Mr M complains about Creation Financial Services Limiteds (Creation) management of his 
credit card account. 
What happened
Mr M says in February 2019 he arranged to transfer his credit card balance, taking 
advantage of a 0% interest rate. Mr M says Creation changed the date payment was due 
just after completing the transfer. He says as a result of this, he was late making a payment, 
lost the 0% interest rate, and was wrongly charged interest for two years. 
Creation says during a conversation in March 2019, they told Mr M to make a manual 
payment for 1 April 2019. This would allow time for the direct debit to be changed from 
taking the full amount owing to the minimum payment. Creation went on to say while a 
manual payment was made, it didnt reach Mr Ms account until 4 April 2019, and the interest 
rate was rightly removed. It thought it had acted correctly, but in June 2021 offered Mr M a 
gesture of goodwill of £300, representing half of the interest applied to his account.   
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of 
our investigators who asked Creation to provide her with a copy of the account note it was 
relying on, as it had said it no longer had a recording of the call. As it didnt do so  or 
respond to her - despite a number of requests, she upheld Mr Ms complaint.
As Creation still hasnt responded, this case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation no longer has a copy of the call in which it says it told Mr M he needed to make the 
manual payment by a particular date. Mr M says during this call he wasnt given a specific 
date and the paper statements he was sent then didnt have payment dates on. So, in light 
of the conflicting accounts of the call, Ill decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
When it sent its file, Creation included copy statements. These dont specify a date by which 
payments need to be made. It hasnt confirmed if these were like for like copies of the 
statements sent to Mr M, or copies that have been generated differently. 
Creation also hasnt provided a copy of the account notes its relying on to support its 
position it told Mr M the payment needed to be made by a specific date. Its relied on an 
extract of a note which said, advised the customer to make a manual payment for the next 
statement date. As Ive said, the statements weve been provided with didnt include a 
payment date. 
Despite a number of requests for Creation to provide this service with a full copy of the 
account notes it relied on, it hasnt done so. Mr M says he wasnt told the specific date he 
needed to make the payment by in order to protect his 0% interest rate. Creation hasnt 
satisfied me that Mr M was told the payment had to be made by a specific date, or that it 
explained the consequences of a late payment to him. 
Based on the information provided, I find myself more persuaded by Mr Ms account of 
events, in that he wasnt given a specific date by which the payment had to be made. It 
follows, Im going to require Creation to refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ms 
account from April 2019 for the duration the promotional interest rate should have been 
applied to the account. It should also correct any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file about the late payment it says was made in April 2019. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to:
- Refund all interest and late charges applied during the period of the 0% balance 
transfer promotion.
- Amend any adverse information provided to the credit reference agencies in relation 
to the April 2019 payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman