DRN-3967468
The complaint
Mr F and TM as SIPP trustees complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
used the incorrect unit price when calculating withdrawals from a Self-Invested Pension Plan 
(SIPP).
What happened
Mr F asked TM as SIPP trustees to withdraw units from his SIPP and TM as SIPP trustees 
emailed the instruction to Prudential on 16 March 2020. Prudential sold the units using the 
unit price on 17 March. Mr F and TM as SIPP trustees complained to Prudential that it 
should have used the unit price on the day it received the instruction  16 March. Mr F says 
Prudential had told him before he decided to sell the units that the unit price used would be 
the unit price on the day Prudential received the instruction. Mr F complained this had 
caused him a financial loss that he hadnt expected. 
Prudential said it couldnt trace any telephone calls from Mr F from before TM as SIPP 
trustees sent the withdrawal instruction. Prudential said it used the correct unit price as 
detailed in the terms and conditions of the SIPP but said it would pay Mr F £150 for the delay 
in dealing with his complaint. Mr F provided Prudential with further details of the dates and 
times he made his calls and Prudential reconsidered the complaint. Prudential then found a 
call Mr F made on 6 April and said that in this call Mr F had been told the unit price used 
would be the price on the date the request was received and said this was correct. 
Prudential didnt uphold the complaint but said it would arrange to pay the £150 referred to in 
its first response to TM as SIPP trustees.
Mr F and TM as SIPP trustees brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
where one of our Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the terms 
and conditions of the SIPP confirmed the unit price Prudential would use for a withdrawal 
was the price on the day it received the e-mail instruction. And as Prudential had accepted it 
received the instruction on 16 March, the unit price for this day should have been used. 
Prudential didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. Before I considered the complaint, I noted that there were three separate 
instructions sent to Prudential to sell units on 12, 16 and 19 March. All three of these 
withdrawals had unit prices calculated using the price on the day after the email instruction 
had been sent to Prudential. I therefore asked Mr F, TM as SIPP trustees and Prudential if 
they had any objections to me considering all three transactions as part of this complaint as 
all were dealt with in the same way. I received no objections, so I considered what happened 
at the time of all three withdrawals.
As I reached a significantly different outcome to the Investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision for both parties to consider. In my provisional decision I said I intended to say 
Prudential had dealt with the withdrawal requests fairly and explained why. Mr F didnt 
accept my provisional decision and provided a number of comments and documents for me 
to consider. I can confirm Ive reviewed all of these comments and documents and I will 
address the relevant comments and documents in my final decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he made his decision to withdraw funds after Prudential 
told him it would use the unit price on the day it received the instruction. Unfortunately, 
Prudential has only been able to provide recordings of calls with Mr F that took place after 
the withdrawals had completed and calls with TM as SIPP trustees on 13 and 17 March.
The SIPP invested in a Trustee Investment Account with Prudential. This was a unit linked 
growth fund and not a with-profits fund, therefore many of the documents Mr F supplied after 
my provisional decision arent relevant to this particular investment. And whilst Mr F has 
provided details of a decision made by another Ombudsman for me to consider, my decision 
is based on the circumstances of Mr Fs case.
Prudential didnt receive an authority from TM as SIPP trustees to discuss the investment 
within Mr F until September 2020. This is most likely why Mr Fs call or calls before 13 March 
werent added to the case. Mr F wasnt authorised to provide instructions and Prudential 
wasnt authorised to provide him with any specific advice about the SIPP. However, taking 
into account the strength of Mr Fs testimony I think its likely he did call Prudential before 12 
March, but without any other supporting evidence of what was said in any call, or calls, Im 
not persuaded Prudential told Mr F the unit price would be calculated on the day the 
instruction email was sent. Prudential provided some recordings of calls made by Mr F, but 
these were made after all three withdrawals had been executed. 
Ive listened to the telephone calls TM as SIPP trustees made to Prudential on 13 and 17 
March. In the call on 13 March neither TM as SIPP trustees discussed what unit price would 
be used. However, in the first telephone call on 17 March, Prudential confirmed to TM as 
SIPP trustees that the email request sent on 16 March had been received on 17 March at 
08:52 and that the email request of 12 March was received on 13 March. In the second call 
on 17 March, Prudential confirmed it couldnt give a value of the withdrawal as it hadnt been 
calculated yet. In my opinion, Prudential made it reasonably clear to TM as SIPP trustees 
that the days it treated these instructions as received were 13 and 17 March respectively. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr F says that one of the calls between TM as 
SIPP trustees and Prudential on 17 March was, by coincidence, with the first lady he spoke 
to after the unit price timing issue became apparent. Mr F says that Prudential has been 
unable to provide a recording of this call. Regardless of this, Im satisfied that as Mr F says 
this call was made after the unit price matter had arisen, I cant reasonably conclude Mr F 
used this call to make his decision to withdrawal units. 
Prudential were sent the email instructions before 5:00pm on 12, 16 and 19 March 2020 and 
used the unit prices on the day after it received the instructions to calculate the value of the 
withdrawals. So, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the SIPP to see if Prudential 
treated the requests as it should reasonably have done.
The terms and conditions of the SIPP state that withdrawals could only be accepted in 
writing and that the effective date for postal instructions is the day of receipt. Prudential said 
that at the time it was accepting withdrawal instructions by email, and that full surrenders, 
part surrenders and income requests are considered money movements. Prudential told us 
this was a concession, but that its always used the same approach as it does for emailed 
switch instructions and if these are received by 5.00pm on a working day the effective day of 
receipt is the next working day.Section 12 of the terms and conditions deals specifically with fund switches, but theres a 
separate section within the terms and conditions that deals withdrawals, section 13. Ive 
therefore considered what both section 12 and 13 say in respect of instructions received by 
email and how these sections rely on section 16.4 to determine the day a request is treated 
as received by Prudential
Section 12.2.5 (b) explains:
In the following instances we normally sell the existing units and buy the new units as at the 
same date, using the unit prices for the working day we treat the request as having been 
received by us under section 16.4:
(i) Switches between Unit-Linked Funds
Section 13 explains:
13.1 Withdrawals
 You can only ask us to sell units by sending a written request to Prudential, unless we 
agree to the request being in some other form.
13.2 Calculation of withdrawals
13.2.1 General
(a) The amount made available under section 13.1 shall  be those applying on the 
day we treat your request as received in accordance with section 16.4.
Section 16 of the terms and conditions makes it clear that all notices must be sent by post, 
unless the relevant section says that another form of communication is acceptable to 
Prudential. Sections 16.4.2(c) and (d) detail how Prudential treat notices received by e-mail:
(c) Subject to section 16.4.2(d), the effective date of any notice, request or 
information received by us by e-mail, fax or telephone by 5.00 p.m. (London time) on 
a working day, is that same working day
(d) The effective date of a request by e-mail or fax which involves switching units 
between funds (see section 12) and which is received by us by 5.00pm (London 
time) on a working day, is normally the next working day following the date of 
receipt
Although Mr F believes section 16.4.2(c) is more relevant to his withdrawals in this case, Ive 
decided section 16.4.2(d) is the section Prudential was reasonably entitled to rely on in the 
circumstances of this case. I will now explain why.
The terms and conditions dont specifically explain how Prudential would deal with a 
withdrawal request made by email  only by post - but Prudential says it was accepting email 
requests at this time. I considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
have treated the day of receipt as the day the emails were received, but Ive decided that it 
wouldnt be. This is because its reasonable to conclude that a withdrawal of funds requires a 
similar process to a fund switch, such as selling units, and, in my opinion, its reasonable for 
Prudential to have relied on 16.4.2.(d), rather than 16.4.2(c). Even though Prudential was 
accepting requests for withdrawal by email, in its telephone calls with TM as SIPP trustees 
Prudential confirmed the effective date of receipts for the instructions emailed on 12 March 
and 16 March were 13 and 17 March respectively. I appreciate Mr F says he was oblivious to this, but TM as SIPP trustee were aware of it, and Im satisfied Prudential acted fairly 
when it used the next working day after it received the email as the effective date of receipt 
and then used the unit prices for that day to calculate the withdrawal amounts.
Mr F says that the final response letter from Prudential said, You asked what date we would 
use for your withdrawal, which my colleague confirmed to you would be the date we receive 
your request to withdraw funds, which is correct. Ive seen this letter, but Im persuaded its 
more likely than not Prudential was referring to the effective day of receipt here and not the 
day the email was received. Although I acknowledge Mr F places some weight to this letter, 
and has strong views in this regard, the call referred to was made after all the instructions 
had been made and executed. Without any evidence to persuade me Prudential told Mr F 
that it would use the unit price on the day an email instruction was received, Ive decided to 
give more weight to the calls TM as SIPP trustees had with Prudential on 13 and 17 March, 
and the terms and conditions that explained to the trustees and Mr F what the effective date 
of receipt would be. 
Mr F asked me to consider that Prudential upheld his complaint on two separate occasions. 
Ive looked again at the two letters Mr F referred me to, but I dont agree that these letters 
upheld the crux of Mr Fs complaint. Instead, the response dated 24 July 2020 explains 
Prudential had identified an additional issue and was able to uphold the complaint overall. It 
then went on to say the additional issue was that it had failed to respond to Mr Fs complaint 
in a reasonable timescale. I referred to Prudentials offer of £150 for the delayed response in 
my provisional decision. Im satisfied that this wasnt an uphold of the complaint as a whole 
as it only dealt with the delay in dealing with the complaint. As complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity this isnt something I can address in my decision. Mr F says he hasnt 
accepted the £150, but if he now wishes to accept it, he can contact TM as SIPP trustees or 
contact Prudential direct. The letter Prudential sent Mr F on 17 December 2020 only referred 
to the delay in dealing with the complaint and didnt uphold of the crux of Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited acted fairly and reasonably 
when it used the effective date of receipt to calculate the unit price on Mr Fs SIPP when TM 
as SIPP trustees emailed the withdrawal instructions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and TM as 
SIPP trustees to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman