DRN-2975126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complaint about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) 
under their home insurance policy. Theyre unhappy at AA taking a payment in respect of the 
policy from Mrs Ls account rather than a direct debit (DD) from Mr Ls account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a home insurance policy with AA in August 2019, at an annual 
premium of £118.76. A deposit of £10.30 was paid by card from an account in Mrs Ls name, 
leaving a monthly premium of £9.86 to be paid through a DD on an account in Mr Ls name.
In June 2020 Mr Ls employer reduced his working hours due to the impact of the Covid 
pandemic. Because of this Mr L cancelled the DD with the aim of contacting AA later to 
discuss how he might pay the remaining premiums. However, before Mr L contacted them, 
AA attempted to take a DD for the next premium, but it wasnt collected. This led to AA 
making a £12 charge for a failed DD in line with the terms of the policy.
AA then wrote to Mr and Mrs L to say that, unless payment was made, they would debit the 
total amount due (£33.86) from the card used by Mrs L to make the initial deposit, which they 
then proceeded to do. Mr and Mrs L told us that they didnt receive the letter and were 
unhappy at the payment being taken from Mrs Ls account, which they said meant they 
couldnt make a rent payment due. Mrs L had the payment refunded to her account by her 
bank.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr and Mrs L complained to AA. AA rejected Mr and Mrs 
Ls complaint. In their final response letter, they stated that the terms and conditions of the 
policy, as well as the instalment agreement covering the monthly premium payments, 
enabled AA to debit missed payments to Mrs Ls card under a continuous payment authority 
(CPA). AA also said that they had written to Mr and Mrs L to tell them what they were going 
to do, as well as having arrangements in place to help customers experiencing financial 
difficulty because of the Covid pandemic  but Mr and Mrs L didnt contact them. AA also 
thought that they had been professional to Mr and Mrs L when they contacted AA. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy at their complaint being rejected and complained to this service. 
They said they hadnt given AA permission to use Mrs Ls card other than for the deposit and 
that AA had caused them stress by taking the payment, leaving them unable to make a rent 
payment. Mr and Mrs L were also unhappy that AA hadnt told them what they were going to 
do. Mr and Mrs L also thought AA had been discourteous to them when they contacted AA.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded AA hadnt acted outside the terms 
of the policy, which allowed AA to take an outstanding balance from the card used to make 
the deposit. The investigator also thought that while Mr and Mrs L said they hadnt received 
letters from AA, AA had shown they sent letters to the correct address for Mr and Mrs L. The 
investigator also thought AA were courteous in a call with Mr and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt think AA had acted in line with the policy terms 
and that they had been unprofessional towards them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AA have acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs L.
The main part of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that AA shouldnt have taken the payment from 
Mrs Ls card and that they werent told about what AA were going to do.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs L and AA have told us, together with the evidence and 
information theyve provided. From copies of the terms of the policy taken out by Mr and Mrs 
L in August 2019 and the associated instalments agreement covering the payment of 
monthly premiums. With reference to the payment of the outstanding balance (£33.77) to 
Mrs Ls card Ive noted that the instalments agreement states, under Section 8 Use of your 
credit or debit card details:
8.1 If you paid your advance payment by a debit or credit card in your name you 
authorise us to use the details of that card to collect repayment of any amount which is 
overdue. This is called a continuous payment authority.
8.2 We will only attempt to use your card details to collect the full amount that is overdue 
and we will do soon the first working day after the date when the amount became due.
8.3 You may cancel the continuous payment authority at any time by contacting your 
card provider or by contacting us and by informing your card provider, or us, that you wish to 
cancel the authority, so we can no longer use your card details to collect payment.
  
This makes it clear that AA were acting within the terms of the agreement when they debited 
Mrs Ls card to collect the outstanding balance. Its also clear that if Mr and Mrs L had been 
unhappy with this arrangement (the CPA) they could have cancelled it. As the policy was 
taken out in joint names, then AA were able to charge the outstanding balance to Mrs Ls 
card, even though the monthly DD payments were taken from Mr Ls account.
Mr and Mrs L also made the point that the card used to make the deposit wasnt the one 
against which AA subsequently charged the outstanding balance, as she had obtained a 
replacement card in the intervening period. However, in these circumstances, AA were able 
to link the cards by reference to the account upon which the cards were issued. This 
authority is outlined in the policy document where premiums are paid by instalments through 
DD, which provide that: If you are paying by continuous card payment and your card details 
change, your card provider may provide us with updated details which we may use at 
renewal. 
 
While this provision talks about the payment of monthly instalments and renewal, in 
combination with the instalment agreement provisions above, I think it does give AA the 
authority to have charged the outstanding balance to Mrs Ls [new] card as both are based 
on CPA arrangements. The provision is intended to ensure the continuity of the home 
insurance cover for the benefit of the policyholders.
Mr and Mrs L also told us that they didnt receive any correspondence from AA telling them 
about the overdue payment and that they would take it from Mrs Ls card. AA have provided us with copies of letters that they sent, on three occasions in June and July 2020, setting out 
details of the amounts owing. The second of the letters sets out the amount owing and that if 
payment wasnt received, they would take payment of the £33.77 from Mrs Ls card. I 
recognise that letters sent may not always be received, but Im persuaded that AA did send 
the letters, particularly as they included default notices under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
which AA were required to send to Mr and Mrs L. Ive also noted that the amount owing 
figure contained in the letters was raised specifically by Mr L in the recording of the call with 
AA (because it differed from the normal monthly instalment figure).
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded that AA acted both fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr and Mrs L, as well as in accordance with the policy terms and instalment 
agreement, when taking the outstanding balance payment from Mrs Ls card. 
Regarding the other part of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, that AA were unprofessional in 
a call, Ive listened carefully to the relevant call recording. While there was a period 
where Mr L was put on hold whilst a clarification was sought, AA explain what had 
happened and that a CPA applies to an account (not a specific card number). Ive 
also noted that AA logged the complaint Mr L wished to raise and told Mr L about the 
option to talk to another team about payment options given his difficult circumstances. 
Considering the call as a whole, I think it followed the course I would have expected 
in the circumstances and I dont agree that AA were discourteous or unprofessional.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman