DRN-2706361
The complaint
Mr T complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) overcharged him for 
damage to a car he returned at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
Mr T voluntarily terminated his finance agreement with VFS and his car was collected by an 
agent acting for VFS. He produced a report which showed damage to the front bumper and 
VFS charged him £760.21 to replace it. Mr T hasnt queried the remainder of the bill which 
totalled £955.45. Mr T considered the charge for a new bumper to be excessive and 
complained. 
VFS rejected his complaint and said he was responsible for any damage which went beyond 
fair wear and tear. Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. 
She said the industry guidelines used to establish whether damage is beyond fair wear and 
tear are provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She 
explained that this says that scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative 
to the vehicles age and mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing.
She noted the photograph of the bumper showed multiple cracks above 25mm and the 
primer and bare metal showing. She agreed the damage was chargeable Mr T was 
concerned by the amount charged, but our investigator said the car was a relatively new 
prestige model and spare parts were more expensive. 
She didnt think it was reasonable to suggest it be repaired given the amount of damage. Mr 
T didnt agree and said he had been quoted £250 to repair it, but he hadnt expected VFS to 
charge as much as it did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T signed an agreement which stated that he was responsible for any damage which went 
beyond fair wear and tear. The photograph of the bumper shows it is damaged and quite 
seriously so. I can understand why VFS considered replacement was the correct option. 
I have checked he costs for repairing and replacing a bumper for this make and model and I 
dont consider the sum charged to be excessive. The experts who examined the car have 
concluded the damage was beyond economic repair and VFS is entitled to charge the going 
rate for replacement by an approved repairer.
Mr T has said the car is for sale without the bumper having been repaired. That may be so. If 
it is it means the seller will have to ask a price that is commensurate with a damaged car. In 
short VFS calculated how much to charge Mr T each month based on a resale value of a car 
with only fair wear and tear. The damage on the car used by Mr T went beyond fair wear and 
tear and VFS Is entitled to be compensated for that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman