DRN-3622564
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M (who are father and son) complain about how Zurich Insurance PLC  
handled their travel insurance claim. As Mr M senior made the claim and complaint on his 
and his sons behalf Ive just referred to Mr M.
My references to Zurich include its agents.
What happened
On 3 March 2020 Mr M bought a single trip travel insurance policy, branded by an airline. 
The insurer was Zurich. The policy was to cover Mr M and his son for a trip to a UK city from  
20 to 22 March 2020.
On 4 March 2020 the airline cancelled the return flight so Mr M booked a return for 23 March 
2020 which meant he had to buy an extra nights accommodation.
In April 2020 Mr M told Zurich hed had to cancel the trip due to him and his son being 
seriously unwell. He was able to get a refund for some but not all of the trip costs and his 
claim is for his lost costs. 
Mr M complains about how Zurich dealt with his claim. In summary he says:
In April 2020 he tried to submit his claim online but kept receiving an error message. 
He asked Zurich for a claim form to be posted to him and emailed the evidence he 
had for the claim.
Zurich told him its representatives were working from home and so it couldnt say 
exactly when a claim form could be posted. He didnt receive a claim form until June 
2020.
Zurich told him he needed to send in medical evidence from his doctor about his 
illness to support his claim. Hes had problem getting that evidence. He delivered the 
claim form to his GP surgery premises in June 2020 but the premises were locked up 
and hes had no reply. His GP had left the surgery and Mr M had to go to a new 
surgery so the new GP may not provide the evidence. Also hed been told by one of 
the representatives at Zurich that his claim could be dealt with without the evidence 
from the GP.
Zurich has taken much too long to decide his claim and he wants his claim paid.
Zurich said:
It had sent Mr M a claim pack by email in May 2020 but he then said he needed the 
claim form posted. In June 2020 it sent a claim pack by post which Mr M didnt 
receive. It then sent the document by recorded delivery on 9 June 2020 which he 
received.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic most of its representatives were working from home 
at that time which made sending/receiving documents through the post difficult. It 
apologised for any inconvenience that caused.
It couldnt assess the claim without the medical evidence about Mr Ms illness.
Its calls from that time werent able to be listened to due to a problem with its call 
recorder. But Mr M had told it he cancelled the trip due to a serious illness so even if 
Zurich had given him wrong information about needing medical evidence that didnt 
affect Mr M being able to get medical evidence from his GP.
Our investigator said there had been some delay in Zurich sending Mr M the claim form by 
post but that wasnt the reason the claim assessment had been delayed. The assessment 
hasnt been completed because Zurich didnt have the medical evidence from Mr Ms doctor 
that it needed to assess the claim
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said he wanted to send in more 
documents but his personal circumstances meant he couldnt do so at present. Our 
investigator asked how long Mr M would need to provide the information and explained that 
if additional information hadn't been received by the time the complaint came to me for a 
decision it would be my discretion whether to allow further time. We didnt receive a 
response from Mr M as to how long he needed to send the new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about whether Zurich has dealt with Mr Ms claim fairly. Our investigator 
correctly explained that Zurich isnt responsible for the issues Mr M raised with the airline 
and the accommodation provider.
At the time of making my decision we havent received any new information from Mr M about 
his complaint with Zurich so Im making the decision on the evidence I have. I think its 
reasonable for me to make a decision now as its important to note that Zurich hasnt 
declined Mr Ms claim. Its waiting for the medical evidence from Mr Ms GP to be able to 
assess the claim so it can decide whether or not to pay. 
So if Mr M is able to get medical evidence to support his claim he can send it to Zurich and it 
will the assess and decide his claim. If Mr M is unhappy with Zurichs claim decision then he 
can make a separate complaint to us.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say Zurich should handle claims promptly and 
fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I think Zurich has acted fairly. Ill explain 
why.
There was a delay in Mr M being able to submit his claim. He originally asked Zurich to post   
the claim form to him at the end of April 2020. Zurich didnt send the claim form until the 
beginning of June 2020.
Zurich told Mr M that most of its representatives were working from home at the time due the 
pandemic which made sending/receiving documents through the post difficult. I understand 
Mr M was frustrated at not getting the hard copy of the claim form sooner. But I think Zurich 
gave him a reasonable explanation as to why it wasnt able to post the form to him 
immediately. And the circumstances causing the situation, the pandemic, were outside of 
Zurichs control.
I dont think the delay in Mr M receiving the claim form is the reason Zurichs decision about 
his claim has been delayed. The reason the claim assessment had been delayed is because 
Mr M hasnt provided the necessary medical evidence.
Mr M has said his trip had to be cancelled because he and son had a serious illness, 
I havent seen details about the illness.The policy terms say that Mr M is covered if the trip has to be cancelled due to his or his 
travelling companions illness. But the policy terms for cancellation cover also say:
Any claim resulting from  illness ..must be supported by written confirmationfrom 
a medical practitioner.
And the policy says under the what is not covered heading in the cancellation section that 
theres no cover for any claim: 
Resulting from  illness, not supported by
I. written confirmation from a medical practitioner ...
II.not substantiated by a written medical report from a medical practitioner when 
requested.
I think the policy terms are clear that as Mr M cancelled the holiday due to illness he needs 
to provide supporting medical evidence from his doctor. Thats a very common requirement 
for travel insurance policies for cancellation claims due to illness. Im satisfied its reasonable 
for Zurich to want the medical evidence to be able to assess the claim. 
Mr M says he was told on the phone by someone at Zurich that his claim could be dealt with  
without medical evidence from the doctor but was then told that wasnt correct. Zurich 
doesnt have any phone calls from the time that I can listen to. But even if Mr M was wrongly 
told Zurich didnt need the medical evidence Zurich was subsequently clear to him that it did 
need the medical evidence and has told Mr M the exact information it needs, which was 
reasonable.
Mr M has detailed why he hasnt got the medical evidence, as Ive set out above. Im sorry 
hes finding it difficult to get the information. But its still reasonable for Zurich to say that it 
wont settle the claim without supporting medical evidence. 
I note Mr M has said that public health advised against all non-essential travel at the time 
he was due travel. There were some travel restrictions from his relevant government. But 
that wasnt the main reason he gave for cancellation. And even if it was the main reason the 
policy says under the what is not covered heading that theres no cover for a cancellation 
claim due to:
Foreign and Commonwealth Office or an equivalent government or national 
authority, or the World Health Organisation issuing notice or advice against all travel 
or all but essential travel to the area in which you were due to travel to during your 
trip.
So Mr Ms claim wouldnt be covered by the policy terms if he had cancelled for that reason.
Overall I find that Zurich has fairly handled Mr Ms claim. Its reasonable for Zurich to want 
the supporting medical evidence from Mr Ms doctor before it finalises its claim assessment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman