DRN-3129314
The complaint
Mr R has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont return £200 he believes 
was lost in an automated deposit machine.
What happened
Mr R went into a Halifax branch to deposit £2,000. Hed carefully checked the money he had 
before hed left home. He had £1,000 each in new and older £20 notes. Mr R used an 
automated deposit machine to deposit the new notes first. These jammed the machine and 
were rejected. Mr R wondered whether any money had been left in the machine. He was 
reassured the machine would be checked later.
He then deposited the older notes but after theyd been entered into the machine, he 
cancelled the transaction as he wanted to pay them in over the counter. He no longer had 
sufficient money but paid in £1,900 over the counter.
At the end of the day, no cash was found in the deposit machine. Halifax told him there was 
nothing further they could do as they didnt believe Mr Rs money had been lost.
Mr R brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt the evidence didnt show Halifax had made any error. She couldnt ask 
them to pay back any money to Mr R.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I know our investigator shared Halifaxs evidence showing the transactions made at the 
automated deposit machine. These included transactions before and after Mr Rs which all 
worked successfully. The transactions relating to Mr R showed notes being inserted. These 
were the new notes Mr R inserted. They were obviously rejected by the machine as theres 
no record of their number or denomination. The next 50 older notes were counted but then 
the machine records the transaction as cancelled by Mr R.
Mr R insists £200  so ten £20 notes  was missing when he got his initial bunch of notes 
back. Thats a lot of notes to have gone missing so I think if they had got stuck in the 
machine  based on my experience  future transactions may not have worked at all and the 
automated machine would very likely have shut itself down. The machine was opened and 
checked less than 30 minutes later. No notes were stuck within the machinery and Ive seen 
evidence the machine balanced at the end of the day.
I know Mr R disbelieves what he was told and suspects Halifax of having stolen his money. I 
think this is pretty unlikely and I see no reason to see why this would be the case.
I havent seen enough evidence to suggest Halifax has made a mistake here. I wont be 
asking them to pay back any money to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman