DRN-4248873
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Standard Life disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr W says he was approached by a representative of Standard Life in 1994. He says an employee of 
the business was a neighbour of his and they had discussed financial matters at times. This led to him 
receiving financial advice from Standard Life.
Standard Life completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and
objectives. This showed that he was:
Aged 50.
Married and in good health.
Employed and he was expecting to retire at age 65, although he would consider an earlier 
retirement if possible.
Mr W had deferred benefits in a DB scheme that he had built up from a scheme membership between 
1962 and 1982. I understand he was a member of the scheme for most of this time. Standard Life 
also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it said was neutral.
In late 1994, Standard Life advised Mr W to transfer his DB pension benefits into a personal pension. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr W could improve on his retirement benefits because of the transfer.
The death benefits that the personal pension offered were greater than those the DB scheme 
offered.
His new employer did not provide a pension scheme.
Mr W accepted the recommendation, and the transfer took place in January 1995. The amount 
transferred was £33,317.84. Half was invested in the with-profits fund, and half in the mixed fund 
which was a managed fund.
Mr W took the benefits from his personal pension in April 2002 at age 58. The fund value from this 
transfer was £68,529.97. Mr W combined this with another personal pension to give a total fund value 
of £90,124.97. Both of these provided tax free cash of £13,307.37 and an annual income of 
£4,558.67. I understand Mr W took the benefits in the form of a with-profits annuity.
Mr W complained in 2022 to Standard Life saying that the transfer was not suitable for him. This was 
because Standard Life didnt:
Properly look into Mr Ws circumstances and so it did not have full knowledge when it gave 
advice. And Mr Ws attitude to risk wasnt properly established.
Make Mr W aware of the risks of the personal pension and the funds it invested in. And it 
didnt properly inform him of the fees and charges of this.
Make Mr W properly aware of the DB scheme benefits that he was giving up.
Standard Life didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that Mr W hadnt complained in time. And I can 
see that in its complaint investigation Standard Life also thinks that Mr W has benefitted from good 
growth from the personal pension. And so, his pension benefits may be greater overall. He was also 
able to retire early and use the flexibility that the personal pension offered. And he chose a different 
type of annuity than he would have been able to from the DB scheme.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended 
that Standard Life pay compensation. She said there wasnt a great deal of information from the time 
of sale and Standard Life hasnt been able to provide full documentation. But she thought it was likely 
that Mr W had a lower attitude to risk and so it wasnt demonstrated that he wanted to take on the risk 
of transferring the DB scheme to a personal pension. She didnt think that the improved death benefits 
or greater flexibility outweighed this.
Standard Life disagreed, but it hasnt said why.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
The advice was provided by Standard Life in 1994. At this time it was a member of the Life Assurance 
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO).
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required advisers to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 6 of the Code of 
Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they should not:
Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or state 
pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, occupational 
or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the consumers best interest and 
clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to all other 
relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state pensions. It 
required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing groups range which 
was most suited to the investor. However, none of this went as far as meaning that the adviser could 
just sell the least unsuitable contract from within the providers range.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr W with this in mind.Jurisdiction
Our Investigator said that she thought the complaint had been brought in time. Standard Life didnt 
raise any issues following the Investigators opinion about this, so I wont revisit their findings. But I 
will say that I think the complaint was brought in time for the same reasons the Investigator gave.
Financial viability
Standard Life carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). There is a summary of the information that was 
shown in the report on file and some of the information from it is contained in the suitability report. So, 
Im satisfied this information was provided to Mr W at the time.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' for use in 
loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the 
advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement was 
7.7% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 9.9% per year for 11 years to retirement in this 
case. I understand the DB schemes normal retirement date was age 62.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr W's attitude 
to risk and also the term to retirement. Standard Life said that Mr Ws attitude to risk was neutral. Its 
not entirely clear to me what this means but would suggest his attitude to risk was balanced or 
medium. And I note that Standard Life recommended he invested in low to medium risk funds.
At the time of sale it was reasonable to assume that an investment would grow at a relatively high 
rate. And so, the 7.7% that the pension needed to return at to replace the DB scheme benefits wasnt 
unreasonable. And this return is some distance lower than both the regulators medium growth rate 
and the discount rate. So, whilst I accept there was some risks involved with the transfer, I think it was 
reasonable for Standard Life to conclude that Mr W could likely receive benefits of a higher overall 
value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to 
risk.
I can see that the fund performed well over the time it was invested, I understand it returned over 
11.2% per year up to the point that Mr W took an annuity. And I think this further demonstrates that 
the critical yield was ultimately achievable.
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was unsuitable 
for Mr W, particularly when taking into account his other objectives. Ive thought about some of these 
below.
Death benefits
I think its reasonable to say the main reason Mr W was advised to transfer was on the basis that he 
was likely to increase the income he would receive at retirement. And this was the main driver behind 
the advice. But the information from the point of sale shows that Mr W did want to increase the death 
benefits his pension arrangements would provide.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved 
ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension could possibly have been an attractive feature to Mr W And the calculations showed that, 
given the returns needed to match the DB scheme pension were achievable, that his wife could 
effectively gain the option to take lump sum benefits or have a similar, or greater income than the DB scheme would have provided, on his death. So, I also think it was reasonable for Standard Life to 
recommend that Mr W transfer for this reason.
Flexibility
The evidence from the time of sale doesnt really show that one of the reasons for transfer was the 
increased flexibility that a personal pension would offer Mr W. The point of sale documentation said 
that Mr W hadnt indicated that he wanted to retire before age 62.
But, given what Mr W has said as part of the complaint, I think its reasonable to say that he was 
interested in retiring early if he could, as generally most people would. He has also said he was in 
receipt of some rental income and so he took the benefits from their pensions early and this was a 
longer term want of his and his wifes. Mr W took the benefits from the personal pension the DB 
scheme was transferred to in the form of an annuity at age 58.
The annuity he took provided a higher income at outset than the DB scheme would have provided at 
age 62. But this did include some other pension provision and it wasnt entirely guaranteed. Mr W 
took benefits in a slightly different form from that the DB scheme would have provided. And Im not 
sure about the spouses provision this annuity has. So, I cant make a direct comparison.
But I dont think that makes the advice unsuitable. I think the advice allowed him to take his pension 
benefits early, with what I think is a reasonable income, and some tax free cash. So, whilst it isnt 
entirely clear that Mr W was advised to start the personal pension due to the increased flexibility it 
offered, I think its likely he wanted this option at the time.
Overall, I dont think the advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was unsuitable for Mr W as it met his 
objectives, and he had a good chance of improving on his DB scheme income in retirement.
After my provisional decision
Standard Life, and Mr W, received my provisional decision. Standard Life didnt have 
anything to add to it.  
Mr W, didnt agree with my provisional decision. His representative said that Mr W should 
have been advised to stay in the DB scheme. This was because:
Standard Life approached Mr W, rather than the other way around.
This was Mr Ws main form of pension and retirement planning. 
His attitude to risk would have been very low, given his age and how important this 
DB scheme was to him. 
The regulator has made it clear that a DB transfer should only go ahead in 
exceptional circumstances and if a consumer understands it. Theres very little 
evidence that this is the case here. 
As no agreement has been reached, I've considered the above points in my final decision 
below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I have thought about what Mr Ws representative has said. I think its reasonable to 
say that they didnt really raise any new material points, or provide any new evidence, after 
receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I came to before, 
and for the same reasons.I still think the advice was suitable for Mr W. This is because it would have been reasonable 
to show him that the DB transfer to the personal pension, would potentially improve his 
pension benefits. This is because the growth rate needed to do this was relatively achievable 
at the time. There was improved death benefits, and some flexibility with the personal 
pension. And Mr W was attracted to these. 
Mr W says this was a large part of his retirement planning provision and he did not want to 
take a risk with this. I had considered the risk of the arrangement in respect of what I knew 
about Mr Ws circumstances at the time in my earlier decision. 
As I said, there is a risk to the personal arrangement. But it was reasonable to expect it to 
provide higher benefits than the DB scheme. The funds in the personal pension were 
generally regarded as having a lower to medium risk. And the critical yield is near the lower 
end of the regulators projections at the time. Also, the evidence is that Standard Life 
assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk, and then invested in line with that attitude to risk. And 
theres no evidence Mr W sought to challenge that at the time. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say this transfer carried too much risk for Mr W, especially as he appears to 
have benefitted from it as a result. 
I dont think the regulators rules that were in place at the time, or those that exist now 
essentially say that a transfer should only proceed under exceptional circumstances. That 
said, the rules and guidance are robust in terms of DB pension transfers. The transfer must 
be suitable, and the starting assumption is that it is unsuitable. But having considered 
everything, as I said above, given his circumstances and the likely opportunity to improve his 
position in retirement, I still think that it was suitable to recommend the DB transfer to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman