DRN-3733842
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by Inspirational Financial Management Ltd (IFM) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr E was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. IFM says Mr E was referred to them by another 
adviser  something Mr E disputes. But in any event, Mr E met with IFM and it completed a 
financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr E was aged 49; he was married with 
one dependent child and three non-dependent children; he worked full-time and earned 
around £47,000; his wife also worked and earned around £11,000; they had an outstanding 
mortgage on their home of around £49,000; they had no other assets or liabilities; and their 
joint income exceeded their expenditure by around £500 a month. IFM also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Es attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low.
On 9 October 2017, IFM issued a suitability letter setting out its recommendation. IFM 
recommended that Mr E transfer his pension because Mr E wanted flexibility to control and 
tailor his income as opposed to having a pre-set level of income; he wanted to ensure he 
could retire when he wanted to and not take the risk of having restrictions in place when the 
scheme either entered the PPF or it became the new BSPS; and Mr E was prepared to 
accept more risk to achieve flexibility in retirement. IFM recommended a pension provider 
and two funds (split 70/30) which it deemed matched Mr Es attitude to risk.
Mr E accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards around £464,900 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr E complained to IFM in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He raised a 
number of complaint points  but in essence he didnt think the advice to give up a 
guaranteed pension income was suitable for him.
IFM didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It provided a background to events leading up to the 
time to choose exercise as I set out above and it also set out Mr Es circumstances and 
objectives. In summary it said the transfer advice was suitable because:
Sufficient information was gathered about Mr Es general attitudes, beliefs, opinions 
and feelings in respect of his circumstances. Mr Es goals were clearly documented. 
Mr Es objectives pointed towards a transfer.
Mr E had the knowledge and experience in financial matters to support the 
recommendation.
Mr E wished to retire between 55 and 58 on an income of £26,000 once his mortgage 
was repaid. The monies were to be drawn at a higher level before his received his 
state pension.
Mr E wanted flexibility and control rather than being limited by scheme rules or those 
of the PPF. 
Death benefits were important to Mr E  the advice improved the position taking 
account of his unmarried status.
A robust approach was taken to assessing Mr Es attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss to transfer, which it believed was appropriate to justify the transfer and make the 
investments at the required level.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr E referred his complaint to us. Mr E, through his 
representative said his knowledge of financial matters was poor and his attitude towards 
investing was cautious. Mr E said he was concerned about the security of his pension yet he 
was advised to move to a pension which was at significant risk of fluctuation and loss and he 
wouldnt have time to recover from this. He said there is no guarantee that any lump sum 
death benefit payable would be greater than the 50% spouses pension lost as a result of 
transferring. Mr E also said he doesnt recall IFM completing or receiving a transfer value 
analysis report (TVAS)  the reference to the critical yields in the suitability report were a 
guide only.  
An investigator upheld the complaint and required IFM to pay compensation. In summary 
they said the advice wasnt suitable. They said that it didnt appear IFM had carried out a 
transfer analysis for Mr E - but based on what it said in the suitability report about the likely 
growth rates required to match the benefits under the existing BSPS at age 65, Mr E was 
likely to be worse off as a result of transferring.  
And they said there were no other compelling reasons to justify the transfer to outweigh this. 
For example they said, Mr E had no retirement plans  wanting to retire early was just a 
desire rather than a firm plan; nothing indicates he needed flexibility; no detailed assessment 
of Mr Es income needs was carried out and IFMs assertion in its final response letter that 
he needed £26,000 was not evidenced as being sustainable by transferring anyway; and 
better death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer. They said if suitable advice had 
been given that Mr E should retain his DB scheme benefits he wouldve likely followed that advice.
IFM didnt respond to the investigators findings. 
Because it is assumed that IFM disagrees with the investigators assessment of the 
complaint, it was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of IFM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, IFM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Es 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Im not persuaded that IFM carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) specific to 
Mr Es DB scheme benefits and his transfer value as IFM was required to do by the 
regulator. Reference in the suitability report to critical yields, or the required 
investment returns to match the BSPS benefits was based on what seems to be 
IFMs past experience and typical rates it said it had seen to date. It said investment 
returns were typically around 6-8% to match the existing scheme at age 65 and 
around 4% to match the benefits available through the PPF.Referring to approximate critical yields was fairy meaningless anyway to Mr E. But, in 
addition these rates were based on a later retirement age than it was recorded Mr E 
said was his target retirement age and so wasnt relevant to the advice Mr E had 
sought. And it was known at this point that continuing in the BSPS in its existing form 
wasnt an option for Mr E. So reference to BSPS scheme critical yields was 
somewhat redundant. Knowing they would shortly become available, I think IFM 
shouldve waited and carried out individual and specific analysis of the benefits Mr E 
wouldve been due under the BSPS2.
With only these generic critical yields to go on based on a retirement age of 65, given 
Mr Es recorded low attitude to risk, the discount rate of 3.1% for five years to 
retirement (age 55) and the regulators projection rates, I think Mr E was likely to 
receive pension benefits of a significantly lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to at age 55 under either the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. This is because with a shorter term to retirement, I 
think the critical yields were likely to be far higher than the generic figures IFM 
referred to in the suitability report analysis for age 65 even after taking account of the 
fact that under the BSPS2 the benefits were less favourable. 
For this reason alone I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Es best interests.
IFM recorded that Mr E wanted to retire around 55-57 probably and that he was 
attracted to the flexibility a personal pension could provide in terms of how and how 
when he could access his benefits. While at 49 Mr E might have given some thought 
to his retirement, theres nothing to indicate he had any firm retirement plans. I think 
the language IFM recorded in the advice paperwork about his plans indicates as 
much  the use of the word probably and then in another section of the fact-find 
maybe at 58 does not describe a firm objective.
Mr E didnt have to transfer his pension to retire early - he already had this option
available to him. While he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly, nothing 
indicates he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement and no 
apparent need for a lump sum and defer taking an income. Mr E might have been 
attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided  but I think IFMs reference to 
this was simply a feature or consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather 
than a genuine objective of Mr Es.
In any event, Mr E already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution scheme which did provide flexibility in how 
and when he could access his benefits. Given the 16% contribution being made to 
this, I think Mr Es DB scheme income along with this wouldve likely given him the 
flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
IFM says Mr E needed £26,000 a year from age 55 to live off once his mortgage was 
repaid and this wasnt achievable by remaining in the scheme. 
But this figure isnt recorded anywhere in the advice paperwork. No assessment of 
any kind appears to have been made to arrive at this figure  the retirement income 
requirements section of the fact-find was blank for example and the income and 
expenditure section was based on Mr Es current situation. I dont think Mr E 
reasonably knew at this time was his expenditure would be when he retired and so 
what his income requirement was; particularly given the range of his intended 
retirement age. So I think it was too early for Mr E to give up the guaranteed income his DB scheme would provide when he didnt know what his needs in retirement 
would be or when. I think in the circumstances Mr E stood a better chance of meeting 
his needs by remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and escalating 
income for life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think this was a 
more appropriate way for Mr E to meet his future income needs.
IFM said death benefits were important to Mr E and that the transfer improved the 
death benefit position. But the priority here was to advise Mr E about what was best 
for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a 
spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the transfer figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by the income Mr E drew in his lifetime. So, it may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr E might have thought it would. 
If Mr E had genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, IFM couldve explored 
life insurance as an alternative. Mr E had surplus income each month, so it appears 
there was capacity to meet the associated premiums. And this couldve been 
considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But Ive not seen evidence IFM did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately IFM should not have encouraged 
Mr E to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Mr E may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and he was likely worried about ending up in the PPF. But it was IFMs role 
to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr E with 
guaranteed income, the option of accessing tax-free cash and despite what IFM 
recorded at the time, he could still take early retirement. Mr E was unlikely to improve 
on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he 
mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that 
transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Es best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time when he had the option 
of opting into the BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr E 
wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme  he had little 
or no investment knowledge or experience and nothing suggests to me that he had the 
requisite confidence or skill to do so. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice 
Mr E received from IFM was unsuitable for him.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr E. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish IFM 
 which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical 
impact this had on Mr E. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr E is 
now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £200 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. While Mr E indicated a desire to retire early, because he 
had no firm plans, I think the BSPS2 was the most appropriate option in the circumstances. 
IFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
IFM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to IFM and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what IFM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr E has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Mr E should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts IFMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, IFM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd pays Mr E the balance.
Inspirational Financial Management Ltd should also pay Mr E £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Inspirational Financial 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman