DRN-4165847
The complaint
Mr P complains that Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has not treated him appropriately 
when he has been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr P took out a fixed sum loan with HFL. Under the terms of the agreement, 
amongst other things, Mr P consented to HFL taking loan repayments either via direct debit 
or under a continuous payment authority (CPA). HFL chose to take payments under a 
CPA.
At some point, Mr P does not say when, he wrote to HFL to ask it not to take the monthly 
payment from his debit card under the CPA and to set up a direct debit instead. Around this 
time Mr P had cancelled the debit card which the CPA had been set up against. He also 
obtained a new debit card with a new provider, but he did not provide these new debit card 
details to HFL Mr P tells us he received no response from HFL. Therefore he tried again, 
specifically, in June 2022 Mr P wrote to HFL to say:
Due to unemployment, he was no longer able to make his full monthly payments. 
However, he was able to pay £25 per month instead (his contractual monthly 
repayments were £77.42).
Mr P no longer wished to make his repayments under the CPA rather he suggested 
payment by way of direct debit or standing order.
He had used the loan to buy goods and services from a merchant and he was having 
a dispute with the merchant.
Mr P complained about how difficult it was to get through to HFL. Specifically, he told 
it that its online chat function did not work, and hed found it impossible to talk to an 
actual person.
Mr P asked HFL to call hm as a matter of urgency.
Mr P indicates HFL ignored his requests and took at least one further repayment via the 
CPA, which he wants refunded. Mr P also complains HFL obtained details of his new debit 
card, but he does not know how, and he suggests there is something wrong about this. 
Moreover, Mr P tells us by not following his instructions, HFL has caused his current account 
(with a third party) to become overdrawn and impacted his mental health, so he came to our 
service.
Once Mr Ps complaint was with this service HFL told us its version of events, which Ive 
summarised below:
In December 2021 Mr P missed a loan repayment and fell into arrears. Therefore, HFL sent 
Mr Ps account to its collections department, who called Mr P in January 2022. In that phone 
call, Mr P indicated he had become unemployed and as a result had been experiencing 
financial difficulties. However, nonetheless, hed be able to catch up on the arrears by the 
end of March 2022. 
In January 2022 HFL sent Mr P a notice of default.
In mid-March 2022 Mr P contacted HFL via live chat to say he was once again experiencing 
financial difficulties and therefore would not be able to catch up with the arrears by the end 
of March. HFL responded a day later asking Mr P to contact it about his financial difficulties 
and sent him a link with relevant contact details to schedule a call back. It received no 
response. At this point it issued a further notice of default.
In early April 2022 HFLs collections department called Mr P who told it his financial situation 
was improving and that hed be resuming repayments.
In early June 2022, Mr Ps debit card provider sent it new debit card details for Mr Ps debit 
card. A new CPA was set up against this card. Five days later, HFL received an email from 
Mr P in which he asked it not to take the payment that was due to that day. (But the payment 
had already been taken).  On the same day it received a second email from Mr P. In the 
second email Mr P tells it he is in financial difficulty and asks it not to take payment from his 
debit card.
In late June 2022 Mr P contacted HFL via webchat to tell it that he was unhappy with the 
merchant. It told Mr P he would need to take this up with the merchant. Then HFL issued 
another notice of default.
In early July 2022 Mr P complains to HFL. But due to an error on its part it does not at first 
treat this as a complaint.
In August 2022 HFL acknowledged Mr Ps complaint. It also called Mr P but received no 
answer.
In September 2022 HFL issued a further notice of default.
HFL said when it took payment it in June it did so in the belief that Mr Ps financial situation 
was improving. Moreover, it was not in a position to permit Mr P to make his repayments via 
direct debit.
HFL tells us Mr P has at least five months of arrears in relation to the loan by September 
2022. HFL has offered to explore different payment options with Mr P if he is still 
experiencing financial difficulties.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Our investigator did not 
recommend upholding Mr Ps complaint.
HFL accepted our investigators recommendation Mr P did not. In summary Mr P rejected 
our investigators recommendation on the basis that he had been in financial difficulties 
before his debit card details were changed. He tried to get HFL to engage with him about 
this, but it would not help. Specifically, he had wanted it to call him, but it did not. Moreover, 
HFL had not followed the complaint handling rules that apply to it. In response, to the last 
point, HFL agreed it had not at first, due to a mistake on its part, treated Mr Ps complaint as 
a complaint. Therefore, it had not followed the complaint handling rules that it must follow as 
a business regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. In recognition of this it offered to 
write £100 off the balance of the loan, provided Mr P agreed to pay off the remaining 
balance in full in one go. Mr P declined this offer.
Mr P raised a new complaint, he complained that hed only entered into the finance contract 
with HFL and the contract of sale with the merchant due to misrepresentation on the part of 
the merchant. Mr P wanted us to look at this new complaint as part of this complaint, but we 
told him we could not do this, and hed need to raise a new complaint. Mr P continued to ask 
us to look at this new issue.
Mr P asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It seems both the parties accept that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulties. Although 
Mr P suggests these financial difficulties were continuous from some unspecified point in 
time onwards whereas HFL thought Mr P went into financial difficulties briefly in December 
2021 and then came out of them and then went into financial difficulties again. In any event, 
HFL is a regulated business as such it is expected to act fairly with due consideration and 
forbearance when its customer is experiencing financial difficulties. So what Ive got to 
consider is did HFL meet this obligation in this instance.
Mr P has not told us exactly when his financial difficulties began (as Ive already mentioned) 
but he has said these difficulties were due to becoming unemployed. HFL has sent me a 
copy of Mr Ps payment history towards the loan it seems he made his repayments without a 
hitch until December 2021. That suggests to me that is when Mr P might have began to 
experience financial difficulties. But Ive not got anything to show that Mr P told HFL anything 
about this at that point. Rather, the first indication Ive got that HFL was told Mr P might have 
been experiencing money troubles in December 2021 was the call in January 2022. But 
according to HFLs records, which Ive no reason to doubt on this point, the message Mr P 
gave was rather mixed. He told HFL hed been made unemployed, but he also said hed 
make up the missed payments by the end of March. So it seems to me Mr P indicated he 
had had short term money troubles, but they were going to be over soon or were already 
over. Therefore I dont think HFL had to do anything further at this point.
The next significant contact it seems to me was mid-March when again according to HFLs 
records, which Ive no reason to doubt on this point too, Mr P told HFL he was not going to 
be able to make up the arrears by the end of March after all.  It seems that HFL then got the 
ball rolling as it should have done by reaching out to Mr P, offering to call him, 24 hours after 
he contacted it. It may not have been the immediate phone call Mr P expected but I think 
HFLs response was still an appropriate response. Mr P has not told us he did not receive 
this response from HFL, but it seems he did not take HFL up on its offer of a call back.
When a consumer is experiencing financial difficulties it is a two-way street. The business is, 
as Ive already said meant to respond fairly by showing due consideration and forbearance. 
But also the consumer is meant to respond to the business when it offers help.  The ball was 
in Mr Ps court therefore at this point, so I dont think HFL acted incorrectly in waiting for Mr 
P to respond to it.
Next the parties talked in April, according to HFLs records, Mr P told it his finances were 
improving. On balance I dont think HFLs version of events is likely to be inaccurate. So it 
seems to me HFL was left with the impression that all was well again with Mr Ps finances. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr P contacted HFL again before June when it took the 
payment from the new debit card. And given that as far as HFL appears to have known Mr 
Ps finances were once again in good order it acted appropriately in taking the payment in 
June 2022. It would potentially have made Mr Ps situation worse if it had not taken payment when it seemed that Mr P had the funds to pay it. The information Ive got about the contact 
in June indicates that by the time Mr P contacted HFL it was too late, and the payment had 
been taken. 
I recognise that Mr P does not understand how HFL got his new debit card details, and it 
concerns him, I can well understand that. HFL has told us, that it is standard practice for the 
card issuer to provide it with this information. I have no reason to doubt HFL about this and 
nothing Ive seen shows it did anything untoward or underhand to get this information which 
is what Mr P appears to be worrying about. So I hope this explanation puts Mr Ps mind at 
rest about this point. In any event, Mr P had agreed to the terms of the contract when he 
made the agreement. The contract provides that Mr P must give HFL the personal 
information it needed to take repayments from him. So I dont see that HFL acted incorrectly 
in using that information to enforce the contract.
For all of these reasons, I dont agree therefore that HFL was wrong to take the repayment in 
June and must refund it. Neither do I find that if this repayment caused Mr P to become 
overdrawn HFL must take responsibility for this.
It appears that HFL did try to contact Mr P after he once again said he had money troubles in 
June 2022, but it received no response from him. I dont find therefore that HFL failed to 
respond to Mr P, as it should have done, at this juncture.
HFL has not explained why Mr P could not pay it by direct debit instead of by CPA and I find 
this unsatisfactory given that the contract provides for payment by direct debit or CPA. 
However, this does not go to the crux of the complaint, so I mention it just for completeness.
HFL has told us that if Mr P is still experiencing financial difficulties it is ready to talk to him 
about this to see what (if anything) it can do to help. Although it seems from the payment 
history information Ive got Mr P resumed his repayments in September 2022.  If Mr P wants 
this help then he needs to get in touch directly with HFL. Mr P suggests, HFL has made it 
difficult for him to contact it in the past. Ive not seen anything to suggest that is the case. But 
we will ask HFL if it can provide contact details for a specific person or team that Mr P can 
talk to via phone as is his preference. Im not saying it has to provide this just that we will 
ask.
Ive not found that HFL has acted inappropriately when Mr P was experiencing financial 
difficulties. I realise this may well have been a difficult time for Mr P and his told us about the 
toll this has had on his mental health. But given I dont think HFL acted inappropriately I have 
no proper basis for saying HFL has to make any payment to Mr P for distress.
Mr P complained about the way HFL handled his complaint. This was not the main thrust of 
his complaint, but it was one of his complaint points. And as far as I can see he does still 
want us to look into this. 
Im sorry to disappoint him, but I cant look at that part of his complaint. Thats because 
complaint handling isnt an activity listed within the rules that govern this service. Complaints 
about how a complaint has been dealt with simply are not something that falls within the 
remit of this service. I realise this may be very galling for Mr P as he laid some emphasis on 
this issue in his complaint. But he can take this issue no further with our service.
New matter
Mr P has now also told us that the terms of the finance contract and the contract of sale 
were misrepresented to him by the merchant. This appears to be a new matter and has not 
been considered by HFL in its final response to Mr P or investigated within this complaint. It 
follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman