DRN-1882872
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her mortgage, which she thought was 
portable. Shes now found out she cant port the mortgage to her other property and will 
incur an early repayment charge (ERC) if she sells her property. Miss M is also unhappy 
about the way Santander dealt with her complaint. She asks that Santander waives the 
ERC, ports the mortgage to her other property or offers some solution.   
What happened
Miss M took out a mortgage with Santander in 2018, with a five-year fixed rate mortgage 
product. The mortgage was recommended by Santanders mortgage adviser. Miss M says 
she told the mortgage adviser that shed be buying a property with her partner in the near 
future, so she wanted a mortgage she could port. However, when she applied to port in mid-
2019 Santander said this wasnt possible. Miss M says she always intended to buy a 
property with her partner, and sell her property a year or two later. She says she wasnt told 
before she took out the mortgage that she could only port it if she bought a new property at 
the same time as she sold her existing property. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
mortgage offer says the product can be transferred to a new property you are buying. 
There was nothing in the documentation completed by the mortgage adviser about Miss M 
wanting to port the product to a property she and her partner already owned. So he couldnt 
fairly conclude that the adviser had said this was possible.
Miss M didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M re-mortgaged with Santander and took out a five-year fixed rate product in 2018. An 
early repayment charge applies if the mortgage is repaid during the product term. This isnt 
applied if the mortgage is ported to another property. 
Miss M and her partner bought a property together in May 2019. In mid-2019 Miss M applied 
to Santander to port her mortgage to the property she owns with her partner. Santander 
declined. It said its policy is not to allow porting where the new property is already owned  
in other words, porting is only allowed where the mortgage will be used to buy the new 
property. 
Miss M says she hasnt been treated fairly. She says the mortgage was mis-sold as it 
doesnt give her the flexibility she needs. 
The mortgage was recommended by Santander. So its mortgage adviser needed to ask 
Miss M for enough information to ensure it was suitable for her needs. The mortgage adviser 
carried out a fact find, and Santander provided a copy to us, as well as its recommendation 
letter, mortgage offer and mortgage conditions.
The fact find says Miss M wanted to re-mortgage with Santander as it had better rates than 
her previous lender. She wanted a fixed rate and liked the idea of not having to worry about 
rates changing for five years. The recommendation letter sent to Miss M also says this, and 
that an ERC applied during the product term. The ERC was set out in the mortgage offer. 
The mortgage Miss M took out is portable. Santander has various criteria and policies about 
porting. It should explain the relevant policies at the time  but theres no need to go through 
them all. Id expect Santander to give correct information if Miss M asked a question or 
described specific circumstances  such as wanting to port the mortgage to a property she 
already owned. But theres nothing in the fact find or the recommendation letter to suggest 
that Miss M told the mortgage adviser this was her intention. While Santanders mortgage 
adviser says Miss M told her she might buy a property with her partner in the future, theres 
nothing in the fact find or recommendation letter about Miss M intending to sell her property 
after this.
Miss M says she wasnt told that she could only port her mortgage if her sale and purchase 
happened at the same time. However, Miss Ms mortgage offer says: 
What happens if you move house? 
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to a new property you 
are buying. You must meet the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet 
under Transferring your loan to a new mortgage.
The mortgage conditions, in section 19, say that the mortgage can be transferred to a new 
mortgage with Santander on a property that you wish to buy. 
In my view its clear that the mortgage can be transferred to a new property  that is, one 
that Miss M is buying. Theres no suggestion in the mortgage offer, mortgage conditions or 
recommendation letter that Santander would transfer the mortgage to a property she already 
owns. If this was Miss Ms intention, I think she might have queried this with the mortgage 
adviser, or when she received the recommendation letter and mortgage offer. 
I agree with Miss M that the purpose of meeting with a mortgage adviser is to get advice and 
be recommended a suitable mortgage. Borrowers circumstances change over time, and 
lenders allow porting to help borrowers when they need to move. But I think its relatively 
unusual for a borrower to buy a property without a mortgage and then, some months later, 
ask to transfer a mortgage to it. On balance, having carefully considered the available 
evidence, I dont think the mortgage adviser knew this was Miss Ms intention. So I dont 
think the mortgage adviser had any reason to explain this wasnt possible, or take this into 
account when considering if the mortgage was suitable for Miss M. 
Miss M says she wasnt told she couldnt transfer the mortgage to a property thats jointly 
owned. But the reason Santander declined to port was because Miss M asked to port the 
mortgage to a property she already owned. It would still have declined to port if she owned it 
in her sole name. 
Miss M says there wouldnt be any loss to Santander if it transfers the mortgage to her other 
property. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to transfer the 
mortgage outside its lending policy. 
If Miss M sells her property shell have to pay the ERC, of about £12,000. She says this 
means she cant now sell her property, as the ERC makes the sale financially unviable. But Miss M agreed to the ERC when she took out the fixed rate product  in return for a lower 
interest rate. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander 
to waive the ERC. 
Miss M is unhappy about the way Santander dealt with her complaint. As complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, I cant look into this here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman