DRN-4328935
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs K complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt accepted a claim made 
under their home insurance policy for damage to their ridge tiles.
Where Ive referred to UKI below, this also includes any actions or communication by any 
agents appointed to act on behalf of UKI.
What happened
In November 2022 the ridge tiles on Mr J and Mrs Ks roof were displaced, which caused 
damage to the roof below. So, they contacted UKI to make a claim under their home 
insurance.
UKI said there werent storm conditions at the time. They also carried out an inspection and 
said the ridge tiles were suffering from wear and tear. In the absence of storm conditions, 
UKI said wear and tear was the main cause of the damage and displacement of the ridge 
tiles and as this is excluded under the policy, they declined this part of Mr J and Mrs Ks 
claim. They also said there was evidence of some tiles that had slipped separately too.
However, UKI said the damage that was caused to the roof by the falling ridge tiles could be 
considered under the accidental damage cover under Mr J and Mrs Ks policy. UKI also 
recognised that Mr J and Mrs K were given incorrect information about what would happen 
when their agent visited and offered £100 compensation.
Mr J and Mrs K believe a storm caused the damage to the ridge tiles, and as they remained 
unhappy with UKIs position, they approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. Taking into 
account weather reports and records from the time, she said there was no evidence of storm 
conditions. And she said the information from UKI supported that gradual damage and wear 
and tear was the dominant cause of the ridge tiles displacement and damage.
Mr J and Mrs K provided additional information and their calculations of possible wind 
speeds at the time, but as this didnt change the investigators view of things, they asked for 
a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr J and Mrs K, 
Im not upholding their complaint.
Ive considered the ridge tiles, and whether UKI has acted unfairly by declining this part of 
Mr J and Mrs Ks claim for storm damage. 
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Were there storm conditions?
When we consider this question, well generally rely on available weather data and records, 
along with any other information available which demonstrates storm conditions occurred.
Having looked at the available weather data and records, I dont think this shows a storm 
occurred. The maximum windspeeds recorded by the nearest weather stations were 
33-37mph winds, and I dont consider this to be storm conditions. And a well-maintained roof 
is unlikely to suffer damage during these windspeeds, unless there is already an existing 
problem, which is then highlighted by the weather conditions at the time.
So based on the weather data and records, Im not persuaded a storm occurred at the time 
of the damage.
Mr J and Mrs K have sent in CCTV footage of the outside of their property. I agree that its 
visibly windy in this footage, but I also already recognise there was wind on the day as 
mentioned above. But the CCTV footage doesnt demonstrate that there are storm force 
winds, rather than similar lower wind speeds noted at the nearest weather stations  which 
arent storm conditions.
Additionally, Mr J and Mrs K have also provided detailed calculations theyve compiled, 
which they say demonstrates that wind forces of 78mph would be needed to move the ridge 
tiles, and cause damage in the way that it did. So, they say this shows that there were 
significant storm winds at the time.
Whilst I recognise Mr J and Mrs Ks views on this, Im not persuaded that in direct contrast 
with all available weather records and data showing a lack of storm conditions, these 
calculations alone are sufficient in demonstrating, on balance, a storm occurred. 
Even if I was to accept this did show, on balance, a storm occurred (which Im not persuaded 
has been), all the questions would need to be answered with a yes for a claim to be 
accepted. And I dont think they can be, Ill explain why.Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Ridge tiles could be dislodged in storm conditions, if they werent suffering a pre-existing 
issue. But equally, they could also be dislodged in bad weather, which isnt a storm, if there 
was already an existing issue with them.
So, the damage could be storm type damage, but the next question is important here given 
Im not persuaded that its been shown there was a storm.
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Firstly, for the reasons outlined, I dont think its been shown that there was a storm. So, if 
there wasnt a storm, I cant reasonably conclude a storm was the dominant or effective 
cause of the damage.
But UKI also reached conclusions on why they think the damage was caused, in the 
absence of storm conditions, when declining the claim for the ridge tiles. For completeness, 
Ill consider this too.
UKIs surveyor who inspected the property concluded the ridge line was in a poor condition 
and was suffering with deterioration of mortar. They say its due to this that then resulted in 
the displacement and damage being caused.
Mr J and Mrs Ks policy has the following exclusion:
This policy doesnt cover
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
wear and tear
maintenance and routine decoration
loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance and/or routine 
decoration
.
any damage caused gradually
UKI has relied on this exclusion to decline the ridge tiles damage. Having considered the 
information provided, I dont think UKI reached an unreasonable conclusion. I say this 
because I think the images provided by both UKI and Mr J and Mrs K support that the roof 
appears to be suffering from historic wear and tear and deterioration. 
Mr J and Mrs K also said when responding to the assessment issued by our investigator:
It is clear from the photographs that some erosion of mortar has taken place 
between ridge tiles
So, it appears that Mr J and Mrs K also accept there is mortar deterioration. Albeit they say 
some tiles remained in place, so they think the mortar was adequate. But in the absence of 
storm conditions, based on all the information provided, Im persuaded on balance that wear 
and tear and gradual deterioration was the dominant cause of damage to the ridge tiles.Having taken everything into account, for the reasons outlined, I dont think UKI has acted 
unfairly by declining the claim for the ridge tiles. So, Im not going to direct them to do 
anything further in relation to this part of the claim.
Other damage
UKI recognises that there was other damage caused to the roof when the ridge tiles were 
displaced. And whilst they declined the ridge tiles for the reasons outlined, they said they 
could consider the damage caused by the falling ridge tiles under the accidental damage 
cover on Mr J and Mrs Ks policy. And I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr J and Mrs K have said they dont know what is being accepted and what 
isnt. But it appears that the exact settlement wasnt agreed at the time as they disputed the 
ridge tile declinature and approached this service instead. 
Therefore, Mr J and Mrs K would need to contact UKI to discuss the settlement due for the 
damage UKI accepts is covered. And from my understanding, Mr J and Mrs K have since 
had repairs carried out, so UKI may need additional information to consider the appropriate 
settlement.
If Mr J and Mrs K are unhappy with whatever settlement is ultimately offered by UKI, theyd 
need to raise a separate complaint with UKI about this, before referring back to this service if 
they remained unhappy - in line with our normal complaint rules and timescales.
UKI also accept that Mr J and Mrs K were given incorrect information about what would 
happen during the damage inspection and offered £100 compensation for this. I think this is 
reasonable in all the circumstances, so Im not going to direct them to increase this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman