DRN-3148865
The complaint
Ms K, on behalf of her business (which, for ease, Ill refer to as K) is unhappy 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt refunded her in full, the £28,100 lost in an 
authorised push payment (APP) impersonation / email intercept scam.
  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary:
Ms K is the director of company K. On 24 February 2021, Ks business accountant 
received an email from whom they thought was Ms K.
Unfortunately Ms Ks email account had been hacked and her emails had been 
intercepted and the email had in fact come from a fraudster.
This led to two payments being made for invoices, and to the account details 
provided by the fraudster. One payment was made on 24 February 2021 for £12,800, 
and a second payment was made on 26 February 2021 for £15,300. So in total 
£28,100 had been sent to the fraudster.
The scam was revealed when Ms K checked the account, saw the payments and 
liaised with the business accountant.
Ms K called Barclays on 1 March 2021 to report the matter. According to Barclays 
records, Ms K was kept on hold for over an hour when she phoned.
Ultimately Barclays was only able to recover £29.51 from the receiving bank account 
(the account used by the scammer).
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires Firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
The circumstances where a Firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the Firm can establish that:
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
Barclays, in reviewing what had happened, considered that K shouldve done more to check 
that the invoice and payments were genuine. It also considered that K ignored an effective 
warning that had been provided when the first payment was made. So, under the provisions 
of the CRM Code, Barclays considered K should bear some responsibility for the loss. 
However, Barclays offered 50% of the monies lost (£14,050) and this was due to the delay 
Ms K experienced in logging the fraud claim.  
Unhappy that K had not been reimbursed in full, Ms K referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. They considered the warning 
Barclays provided on the first payment wasnt effective. And they also considered Ks 
business accountant had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. So they 
didnt think it was reasonable for Barclays to choose not to reimburse Ms K in full, under the 
provisions of the CRM Code.  
The investigator said Barclays ought to refund the outstanding amount lost as a result of the 
scam and pay 8% simple interest on the amount from the date Barclays should have 
reimbursed K under the CRM Code.
Barclays disagreed with the investigators opinion and remained of the opinion that K should 
share some responsibility for the loss. 
In short, Barclays considered that K, as a business, should have had controls in place to 
double check new payees for large amounts. It also considered that there wasnt any 
protection such as cyber security on its email accounts.  
Barclays also highlighted that it provides its business customers with information and 
support in relation to scams and how to avoid and prevent them. It advised that this 
information is sent to its business customers on a quarterly basis. 
Our investigator referred Barclays concerns back to Ms K. Ms K responded advising K is a 
small company, and that in her capacity as director, she forwards any invoices to the 
business accountant to pay, and if the accountant receives an invoice directly, then the 
accountant asks before making any payment. Ms K also pointed out that normally, any time 
a new payee had been created and paid, she received a direct text message from Barclays 
alerting her. Ms K advised she didnt receive a notification in this instance. 
Our investigator reviewed the matter again and responded to Barclays advising she 
remained of the opinion the business accountant on behalf of K had a reasonable basis of 
belief when making the payment. They also considered that while Barclays provided 
information around scams on a quarterly basis, these wouldnt have been impactful as they 
contained information about multiple different types of scam. They also considered it wasnt 
provided during the payment journey  so not a timely warning as required under the CRM 
Code.
Barclays responded further explaining that the emails sent to its business customers did 
advise of the type of scam that Ms Ks business had fallen victim to. It also advised Ms Ks 
business had previously been offered to undertake a scam workshop  which it hadnt 
undertaken, so it felt K hadnt taken the precautions on offer. Barclays also considered that 
the warning that was provided during the first payment was relevant, and K failed to take the 
appropriate steps in relation to that warning which could have prevented the scam. Barclays 
asked for Ms K to provide further information around the controls she thought were in place 
by Barclays in relation to new payees.In response, Ms K provided the investigator screen shots of multiple texts showing Barclays 
contacting her confirming that a new payee had been set up and paid.
Our investigator remained of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. Our 
investigator thought that, as Ms K had never been victim of a scam before and having 
received confirmation texts from Barclays in relation to new payees previously, it was 
reasonable for Ms K to consider that she thought she had sufficient security measures in 
place. The investigator also thought it wasnt unreasonable, in light of this, for Ms K not to 
have attended a Barclays workshop on scams. Our investigator remained of the opinion that 
the scam information sent quarterly wasnt impactful and the warning that was given during 
the payment journey wasnt effective as it didnt bring to life what an email scam would look 
and typically feel like. They remained of the opinion that none of the exceptions under the 
CRM Code applied for Barclays to choose not to reimburse K in full.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 
outstanding monies lost and;
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date K should have been refunded 
under the CRM Code to the date of the settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give K a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about the warning(s) it gave and 
whether K had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do 
not persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that K failed to 
take the requisite level of care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code.
Firstly, I would like to address some of the comments Barclays has made surrounding K 
being a business and also its concerns that it provided quarterly information about scams 
and how to prevent them and also offered workshops to its business customers.
While K is a business, and I do take into consideration Barclays comments about business 
processes when making payments, I am also mindful that K is a small business. Ms K, whos 
business has been in operation for many years, has explained that she had never fallen 
victim to a scam before and was unaware that the emails could be hacked / intercepted. I 
dont find this surprising because there isnt a widespread awareness amongst the general 
public that emails can be intercepted in the way they were here. In many cases, it isnt until 
someone falls victim to a scam that they become fully aware of just how sophisticated scams 
and fraudsters can be. I am also mindful that lots of smaller business may not have additional security such as cybersecurity in place or have a more advanced cybersecurity 
than a private individual would (e.g. antivirus software). Theres also no evidence that any of 
these things wouldve made a difference here. 
Given the amount of payments K made over the years, I think it is reasonable to say that 
business K would have had confidence in its security processes  given it had no issues or 
fraud concerns in that time. And I dont think it was unreasonable for K to believe there was 
anything untoward going on with the payment requests in question here or that those 
requests were unusual in any way. I am also mindful K received text alerts from Barclays 
when new payees were set up which would reasonably have reinforced things for K in terms 
of its security and processes when making payments.
I do appreciate that Barclays, to combat the rise of fraud, provided its business customers 
with quarterly information around scam prevention and offered a workshop also. Awareness 
of scams and Prevention is a requirement for Firms as set out within the CRM Code (under 
SF1(2) a). However, I cant fairly say that this is, in itself, enough to say that Barclays has 
met the standards expected of it under the CRM Code; and that those customers who may 
not get around to reading an update or attending a workshop or dont have cyber security in 
place have failed to take the necessary steps to prevent their business from fraud. And, 
importantly, I cant say that those actions undertaken by Barclays are enough for it to say it 
has met all of the obligations required of it under the CRM Code or that a customer because 
of this has failed to take the requisite level of care when making a payment. In short, I dont 
think this is enough for Barclays to choose not to reimburse K fully under the CRM Code. 
Turning to the warning Barclays provided when the first payment was made by K to the 
fraudster. Ive reviewed this warning and Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective 
warning exception were not met. Ill explain why.
Barclays are required to take appropriate action to identify Customers and payment 
authorisations that run a higher risk of being associated with an APP scam. When Barclays 
customer is a business, as is the case here, I do accept that this can make those payments 
that are at a higher risk of being a scam harder to identify. And this can be down to the size, 
volume and frequency of the payments that its business customer makes. However, in this 
case, when the accountant set up and made a payment to a new payee  Barclays has 
confirmed that a payment purpose of paying an invoice was selected and a warning was 
provided.
The warning states:
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for 
you to protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover 
your money. Well never ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the 
police, HMRC or any trusted organisation.
Stay safe from scams
Genuine companies can be impersonated by scammers so verify their details by 
phoning them on a trusted number, especially if you receive an urgent transfer 
request by phone or email.
If youre paying for building work, check the tradesperson is legitimate by researching 
and reading reviews.
Paying for the first time? Send a small amount first, then contact the payee on a 
trusted number to make sure its been received before sending the full amount.If youve been contacted by HMRC, DVLA or TV Licensing and asked to make an 
urgent payment, it could be a scam  call them directly on a listed number to verify 
the details.
The warning initially focuses on safe account scams  and focuses on informing customers 
that Barclays and other trusted organisations will never ask customers to mover their money. 
While the warning then goes on to say that genuine companies can be impersonated, this is 
 on the whole  relating to safe account scams. The business accountant wasnt moving 
money to a safe account nor had they been contacted by the Police, HMRC or any other 
trusted organisation. 
The purpose chosen for the payment was paying an invoice. The warning Barclays 
provided doesnt bring to life what an email intercept scam would look and typically feel like. 
It doesnt highlight that emails can be spoofed / intercepted, and invoices and bank details 
can be changed  which are the common hallmarks of an email intercept scam. Ms K has 
advised that her business hadnt ever fallen victim to an impersonation / email intercept 
scam before. So when Ks business accountant received an email from whom they thought 
was Ms K, asking to pay an invoice which was a normal everyday occurrence  I can see 
why this warning wouldnt have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam. I dont 
think the warning was impactful or specific enough. 
Im also satisfied that Barclays has not shown that K lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
when making the payments. Ill explain why.
As mentioned above Ms K has explained that her business has been operating for many 
years and within that time hadnt fallen victim to a scam and wasnt aware of how email 
impersonation / intercept scams worked. I am also mindful that this was a very sophisticated 
scam. From looking at the email correspondence that has been provided, I dont find that it 
would have given the business accountant any concern that there was something suspicious 
or untoward going on. It is clear that the fraudster was seemingly able to have sight of all 
email traffic / correspondence and was able to manipulate this information to their advantage 
to aid in the fake request for the payments of the invoices.
The fraudster knew details / names of the other accounts K held  and when the business 
accountant asked which account the payment for the invoice was to be made from, the 
fraudster suggested, by name, one of the other accounts that feasibly only Ms K or the 
business accountant knew. The tone in which the fraudster communicated with the business 
accountant seemingly also matched how Ms K liaised with the accountant. 
Given the amounts of payments made, and that the instructions to make any payments 
came from Ms K to the business accountant, I can see why, in the circumstances, that the 
business accountant reasonably believed that it was an email from Ms K and wouldnt have 
had a cause for concern and ultimately had a reasonable basis of belief when making the 
payments.
All things considered, K fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Im not satisfied that Barclays has 
shown that K ignored an effective warning or lacked a reasonable basis of belief when 
making the payment. So it follows that under the provisions of the CRM Code K should have 
been reimbursed for the funds they lost to the scam.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK PLC  and I therefore require it to:Refund the remaining outstanding amount K lost as a result of the scam within 28 
days of receiving notification of its acceptance of my final decision; plus
Pay simple interest on this amount, from the date Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
reasonably have refunded the amount under the CRM Code to the date of the 
settlement. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if it asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K, on behalf of 
K, to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman