DRN-3953510
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited terminated the hire purchase 
agreement he had with them. 
What happened
On 3 December 2019 Mr W was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. He paid an advance payment of £500 and the agreement was for 
£16,775.75 over 48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £277.67 and an optional final 
payment of £7,141 if Mr W wanted to keep the car. 
Mr W first contacted BMW on 17 March 2020, to let them know that his income as a taxi 
driver was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. While the payment due for 
March 2020 was paid, Mr W missed the payments for April and May 2020, putting his 
account into arrears.
On 20 May 2020, Mr W made an online application for a payment deferral, also known as a 
payment holiday, due to the ongoing impact on his income from Covid-19. On 22 May 2020, 
BMW wrote to Mr W to confirm that a three-month payment deferral had been agreed. And 
his payments would restart in September 2020, with the payments increasing to £285.60 to 
cover the payments that had been deferred. However, this letter also confirmed that the 
payment increase didnt include the arrears. And Mr W would need to contact BMW to make 
a separate arrangement for this.
Mr W contacted BMW on 14 August 2020 to advise them of a change of address. And BMW 
used this address for all correspondence from this date.
BMW wrote to Mr W on 2 September 2020 to remind him that his next payment, at the 
increased level, was due to be paid on 23 September. They also told him that, if he was still 
having financial difficulties, he could apply for a further payment deferral if required. Mr W 
only paid £13.23 in September 2020, and he paid £315.68 in November 2020. No payments 
were made for October 2020, December 2020, and January 2021.
Mr W contacted BMW in January 2021 about a further payment deferral. BMW asked him to 
apply for this online, although he didnt do this. He contacted BMW again on 13 April 2021 to 
ask about his payments, and he said he believed there was a payment deferral in place. 
BMW advised him this wasnt the case, and it was agreed that a three-month deferral would 
be applied and backdated to February 2021.
On 14 April 2021, BMW wrote to Mr W to advise him that his next payment would be due in 
May 2021. They also confirmed the payment would increase to £308.72 (around £31 a 
month more than the original payment) to cover the deferred payment. A further letter was 
sent on 4 May 2021 where BMW reminded Mr W of the date of his next payment and that 
this didnt include anything towards the arrears on the account  Mr W would need to 
arrange this separately with BMW.
While Mr W continued to make the £308.72 payment to BMW, he didnt make any 
arrangements to repay the arrears. BMW wrote to Mr W about the arrears on multiple 
occasions, asking him to contact them. However, as Mr W failed to do this, BMW issued a 
default notice, asking Mr W to repay the arrears. And, when he didnt do this, they 
terminated the agreement and recovered the car after Mr W gave them written permission to 
do so.
Mr W complained to BMW, saying that they didnt tell him when his payment holiday was 
ending, and this caused him to miss payments. BMW didnt agree, and they thought theyd 
made sufficient attempts to contact Mr W about his arrears. And, as Mr W hadnt addressed 
this situation, they thought theyd acted fairly by terminating the agreement.
Mr W wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said he thought BMW had acted as he would expect them to, and in line 
with the necessary regulations, by keeping Mr W updated as to the situation on his case. 
And he thought theyd also treated his financial difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration; and had acted reasonably when terminating the agreement. As such, he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said he didnt receive any letters from BMW 
regarding the agreement, and that he was paying an additional £31 a month towards his 
arrears. He also said that he only agreed to sign to return the car because they had people 
at my door without my permission intimidating my wife.
Mr W said that he wanted to see proof of the letters that were sent to him, and he didnt 
believe he could be in arrears because of the additional payments he was making. Because 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr W was in arrears with BMW. And these 
arrears are in addition to the payments that were deferred. I appreciate that Mr W has said 
he was paying an additional £31 a month towards the arrears, but I cant see that this was 
the case  the additional payment Mr W was making was towards the deferred payments, 
not the arrears. And the letters BMW sent him about the payment deferrals confirmed this.
Ive also seen that BMW have regularly sent Mr W emails and letters about the arrears, 
asking him to contact them to discuss these. While Mr W told BMW in August 2020 that hed 
changed address, BMWs letters show that they were all sent to the most up to date address 
they had on file for Mr W, both before and after the address change. And I havent seen 
anything to show me these letters werent sent. Following on from his comments, Mr W was provided with a copy of the letters BMW sent 
him. He didnt provide any comments following receipt of these. So, given this, Im satisfied 
the letters are reasonable for me to rely upon.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that BMW made the arrears situation clear to Mr W 
and, despite various requests, he didnt make any arrangements to repay the arrears. The 
agreement Mr W signed on 29 November 2019 says that BMW had the right to terminate the 
agreement if you fail to pay any Advance Payment or Repayment within 30 days of its due 
date. BMW sent Mr W a Default Notice on 7 July 2022, asking him to arrange to repay the 
£1,329.18 arrears, otherwise the agreement would be terminated. 
The arrears dated back to early 2020, so Im satisfied there were payments that were more 
than 30 days overdue. As such, Im also satisfied that BMW acted reasonably and in line 
with the terms of the agreement by issuing this notice. And, when Mr W didnt contact BMW 
about the arrears, BMW also acted reasonably by terminating the agreement.
BMW sent Mr W a consent form to allow them to recover the car, otherwise theyd need to 
apply for a court order for this to happen. And, had they done this, it wouldve been 
reasonable for the costs involved to be added to any amount owed by Mr W. Mr W signed to 
agree to the car being recovered on 11 November 2022, stating that he had people at his 
door, intimidating his wife.
While I havent seen anything to show me that Mr W was visited by the recovery agent, I 
dont doubt that this was the case. Its clear that Mr W disputed that he wasnt paying 
towards his arrears, and he didnt think BMW shouldve terminated the agreement. As such, 
I accept that hed find any requests that he voluntarily allow the car to be recovered both 
unwarranted and unacceptable. 
However, Mr W wasnt required to sign to allow BMW to collect the car, and he couldve 
refused to do this, meaning a court order wouldve been required. BMW asked Mr W for his 
consent to collect the car in August 2022, and he didnt provide this until November 2022. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr W had sufficient opportunity to let BMW know if he didnt 
consent to the car being collected. And, I dont think that BMW (or the collection agent) were 
unreasonable in asking Mr W if he was prepared to provide his consent while no answer had 
been provided. 
So, for the reasons stated, I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman