DRN-4188469
The complaint
Mr A and Ms H complain that Covea Insurance plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Ms H had a landlords insurance policy that was underwritten by Covea. They 
made a claim after their tenants left the property in a poor state. Covea accepted most of the 
claim, however it declined part of the claim for stolen items of free standing furniture. It said 
Mr A and Ms H only had cover for fixtures and fittings, which only covered built in furniture.
Mr A and Ms H complained. They said that the policy wording was unclear as it said fixtures 
and fittings included cover for built-in domestic appliances, furniture and kitchen units. And 
as it didnt specifically say this only applied to furniture that was built-in, they had assumed it 
covered them for all their furniture. So they didnt think Covea had made this clear enough.
Covea didnt uphold their complaint, it said it thought the policy terms were clear. It also said 
contents is defined in the policy and this includes furniture as part of the description. But Mr 
A and Ms H didnt choose to include contents cover. So they should have known furniture 
wouldnt be covered. Unhappy with this, Mr A and Ms H brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said she thought the policy 
terms were ambiguous and that Mr A and Ms Hs interpretation was a reasonable one. She 
therefore thought Covea should consider their claim for the stolen items of furniture on 
receipt of evidence of the loss from Mr A and Ms H.
Mr A and Ms H accepted our investigators outcome. However Covea didnt. It said the policy 
documents were clear and said that Mr A and Ms H had the opportunity at the point of sale 
to take out contents insurance as an addition but decided not to. And Covea said it was clear 
that contents insurance would provide cover for furniture. It asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
On 26 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision which said:
Mr A and Ms H say that the fact the policy states it includes built-in domestic appliances,
furniture and kitchen units implies that all furniture is included in the cover. However I dont
agree this is a reasonable understanding of this term. While I appreciate built-in doesnt
prefix the word furniture, all other items contained in the term are generally built-in. And all
other points contained under the definition of fixtures and fittings in the policy also refer to
items in a house that are fixed in place, such as boilers, central heating equipment, ducts,
fires, fixed pipes, storage heaters and tanks and cables, light fittings, switches and wires. I
therefore think that when the word furniture is read in the context of the term it is clear that
this refers to built-in furniture.
Further, Mr A and Ms Hs policy schedule states as follows:
Section A  Buildings: not included
Section A - Fixtures and fittings: £30,000
Section B  Contents: Not included
So its clear that cover for contents of the property isnt included in the policy. And in the
policy document, on the page before the definition for fixtures and fittings, contents is
defined and includes furniture and furnishings. I therefore think if there was any doubt about
the description of whats included under fixtures and fittings then the fact furniture is included
under contents would provide clarity.
And in addition, Covea has provided a screenshot of what Mr A and Ms H would have seen
when taking out the policy. This gives clear options to select to include in policy cover. One
of these is contents and this is described as:
Protection if the household items that you have provided for your tenants are damaged or
Destroyed. For example: Damage to soft furnishing, furniture, appliances and decorative 
items.
Mr A and Ms H chose to select Dont include this cover. I therefore think it would have been
clear to them that the policy didnt include cover for free standing furniture.
In summary, I can see the policy doesnt include cover for free standing furniture and I think
the term was clear enough in the policy documentation and at the point of sale for Mr A and
Ms H to have been aware of this. I therefore dont think Covea has acted unfairly by
declining this part of their claim.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr A and Ms H didnt agree with my provisional findings. They responded with a number of 
points, but in summary they said:
The term can be interpreted in other ways than how it has been applied, so should be 
interpreted in the policyholders favour.
Covea changed their position on other parts of the claim which shows it was being 
dishonest. It also included curtains in the claim when this was later clarified as 
contents, which shows the policy wording is ambiguous. 
Our investigator agreed that the term isnt grammatically correct and therefore it isnt 
fair to apply it in the way it has been. 
It isnt a reasonable expectation for a policyholder to consider a word within the 
context of other words in a term, but should be considered individually. 
It isnt fair for me to rely on the journey at sale stage as Covea didnt raise this point 
before the complaint came to this service.
If I do consider the sale journey, the information provided goes on to state How 
much would it costs to replace all fixtures and fittings in the property? i.e fitted 
kitchens, bathrooms, cupboards. And cupboards would constitute furniture, so it led 
them to believe all furniture would be covered. 
The existence of other cover for furniture under contents cover, doesnt preclude it 
from cover from the main policy.
Covea didnt respond to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service, Ive not responded to each of Mr and Mrs Hs points directly. 
Instead Ive focussed on those I consider to be key to the complaint. However I want to 
reassure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve said. 
The key reason for my outcome was that I consider a reasonable understanding of the term 
in the policy to apply to fitted furniture only. And what Mr A and Ms H have provided doesnt 
change my conclusion on this. 
The phrase fixtures and fittings taken literally refers to items that are fixed or fitted. And the 
reference to furniture is in a sentence that begins with built-in, which I think reasonably 
infers the items that followed in the sentence would need to be built-in. Further the other 
items in the list of those covered under fixtures and fittings are all things that are generally 
built-in. So when read as a whole, I consider the policy term to be clear to a reasonable lay 
customer.
Ive noted what Mr A and Ms H have said about not considering the context the word is 
written in, but instead considering the word itself. But as the word would be read in the 
context of the section of the policy, I dont agree this is a reasonable way to consider how it 
would be interpreted. 
And while I appreciate the wording may not be grammatically correct  this isnt what Im 
deciding on here. I need to decide if the policy terms are clear and I think they are. 
Mr A and Ms H have also commented on whether or not I should have considered the sales 
journey or the contents cover in the policy as part of my decision. The main factor I based 
my decision on as the clarity of the policy term. However I felt that the fact they had the 
option to purchase contents cover and the description of that cover in the policy, made it 
clear that cover for furniture was available but that it wasnt included in the policy. However 
even without considering these additional points, I am still persuaded the policy term was 
clear and therefore that Covea made a fair decision to decline the claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr A and Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman