DRN-3859510
The complaint
Mrs Q has complained about the problems she experienced with her account she held with 
Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212). Amongst other points Mrs Q has said she wasnt 
able to trade, stock prices werent correct, she was unable to access her account or transfer 
her positions and was given misleading information. Mrs Q says she was misled into 
opening an account that didnt offer a full brokerage service and had arbitrary trading rules. 
What happened
Mrs Q opened her account with Trading 212 in November 2020 but started having issues 
about the communication and service she was receiving. She complained in January 2021 
and again in the February as Trading 212 hadnt responded. 
In her letter Mrs Q complained about the arbitrary prevention of trading, suspension of 
trading stock, manipulation of prices, locking of her account, inability to transfer positions, 
sudden background checks and a misleading statement about being a zero-commission 
firm. 
Trading 212 issued its final response on 12 April 2021. It didnt uphold Mrs Qs complaint 
and said;
Due to exceptional market conditions, it had identified an increased risk to its 
business and its exposure to penny stock shares.
Due to the increase in the interest in small, microcap and penny stocks, concerns 
and investigations had been triggered with regulators and liquidity providers.
This could lead to the investigation or suspension of a stock and brokers had a 
responsibility to take care that trading volumes werent disproportionate to normal 
activity.
Because of the above, Trading 212 may need to temporarily suspend buy orders of 
penny stocks that were illiquid, or it risked being suspended by the exchange or 
market makers. 
It didnt do this lightly. It referred to its terms and conditions that allowed it to do so. 
It had never offered to transfer shares in specie broker and was under no obligation 
to do so. 
Mrs Q wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Trading 212 had provided explanation as to why stocks were restricted which was 
because of unprecedented market activity and stock market volatility worldwide. It 
had been explained that smaller capitalised stocks were subject to lack of liquidity 
and extreme volatility. Stocks were suspended to avoid the risk of Trading 212 being 
suspended by exchanges and market makers over concerns about market 
manipulation.
Many of the trades Mrs Q complained about were illiquid penny stocks and the 
investigator thought Trading 212s reasoning was justified. 
Exchanges and market makers dont give advance warning about suspension so this 
wasnt something Trading 212 could make Mrs Q aware of.  And it was an execution 
only broker in any event. 
In some instances, Trading 212 had made its own commercial decision to suspend 
trading in certain shares. It was entitled to do so under clause 25.1 of its Share 
Dealing Terms of Business. 
With reference to Mrs Qs complaint about her inability to transfer her shares to 
another broker, the investigator concluded the clause allowed a customer to change 
the ownership of the shares into their own name or another nominee name. And not 
to transfer them to another broker without being liquidated. And in any event, the 
investigator didnt think it was likely Mrs Q would be able to transfer all her 
shareholdings to another broker without converting to cash first. 
Unfortunately, Trading 212 hadnt been above to provide a record of limit orders that 
Mrs Q had placed, and which hadnt been executed as it didnt hold records of 
pending orders. The Financial Ombudsman wasnt in the position to compel a 
business to provide information it didnt have.
So, the investigator considered the limit order failures on the balance of probabilities. 
Trading 212 didnt guarantee a limit order could be completed even if the price was 
achieved. So Mrs Q couldnt expect limits order to be executed as instantly and 
frequently as market orders were. 
For penny shares, markets could be illiquid and volatile. A limit order may receive a 
partial or no fill due to the timing, size of the order and overall volume of trading. So, 
although the investigator couldnt be sure, it was known that limit orders werent 
guaranteed and carried an inherent risk of not being filled. 
Mrs Q had been told by Trading 212 that the reason her limit orders werent executed 
was because they were below the value of £100 but Mrs Q had traded for less than 
that amount. The investigator thought the response from Trading 212 was probably 
incorrect, and it may have been the reason her orders werent filled. 
There were many factors involved and market risk could vary significantly from stock 
to stock. The investigator thought Trading 212s explanation as to why orders werent 
executed wasnt unreasonable. 
Mrs Q didnt agree with the investigator and made the following points;
She had provided evidence that Trading 212 manipulated a clients ability to trade 
their account by providing artificially low prices. She referred to particular examples, 
Lake Resources, which was available from all other brokers except Trading 212. And 
Galaxy where the CEO of the business had publicly said there was no reason for 
Trading 212 to halt trading. 
The investigator had accepted Trading 212s comments about its reason for 
suspending or halting trading in certain stocks. But Trading 212s actions were 
inconsistent with other brokers. Trading 212 was restricting stock arbitrarily and 
forcing sales at low prices. 
She didnt agree that Trading 212 wouldnt be given notice of stock suspensions. She 
wanted to see evidence of notification from the relevant exchanges. She thought 
Trading 212 unnecessarily suspended stock trading, and for longer, in order to accommodate its own stock lending practices. 
She wanted information and data from Trading 212 about the number of market 
orders compared to limit orders.
She didnt agree with the investigators interpretation of the terms relating to the 
transfer of shareholdings to another broker. Being able to transfer wasnt a new 
concept and was embedded in the regulators own thinking and values. The clause 
didnt make clear that a client must always hold their assets with Trading 212 or that 
in order to transfer a shareholding, it would need to be liquidated first. The benefit of 
any unclear or misleading terms should be in favour of the customer and not the firm. 
Mrs Q relied entirely on the clause when she opened her account and now cannot 
transfer her positions or would be forced to sell her positions at artificially low prices. 
And in contradiction to what the investigator thought, Mrs Q was in the position to 
transfer all of her shareholdings to another broker. 
She wasnt satisfied with how limit orders were handled and only a small portion of 
her trades were executed as limit orders rather than market orders. Delays and 
rejections were in favour of Trading 212 while other brokers were able to fill the same 
orders. Trading 212 was hiding behind its terms of business to justify its actions. She 
was concerned that Trading 212s trading hadnt been properly challenged or 
questioned about the systematic issues she hadnt experienced with other brokers.
She questioned how Trading 212 could not know a day before one of her stocks was 
executed that it was illiquid and was going to be placed on close only mode the day 
after.
Trading 212 had now placed her account on close only mode which she thought 
was vindictive. 
The second of our investigators responded to Mrs Q saying;
Under its terms Trading 212 could remove or suspend any instrument it offered but 
the investigator wouldnt expect for this to be done lightly. Trading 212 had provided 
an email conversation about some restricted stocks between Trading 212 and its 
trading counterparty who provided it with share prices. The investigator was satisfied 
that Trading 212 was justified in suspending those stocks and the reasons for it doing 
so were outside of its control. 
The investigator wasnt satisfied that Trading 212s clause gave the impression that 
customers could transfer their shareholdings in specie to another broker.
It was clear that Trading 212 couldnt guarantee that limit orders could be executed 
but it was expected that it would make every effort to do so. But it had been difficult 
to consider this complaint point any further as the information just wasnt available. 
So, it had to be considered on the balance of probabilities. And the investigator 
concluded that it was due to the volatility and restriction on the penny shares that 
meant those limit orders werent completed.
Mrs Q had made comparisons with other broker operations. But different brokers 
managed their businesses differently and its not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman to comment on the service provided by other businesses. 
The investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to say Mrs Q had 
been treated unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs Q wasnt satisfied. She said;
The restricted trades that had been referred to didnt all relate to shareholdings she 
was trying to trade in. And she referred again to the customers being locked into Trading 212 as prices were manipulated so they couldnt trade stocks they held. She 
questioned why she was able to buy a stock one day only for it to be suspended the 
next. 
She didnt agree with the investigators understanding of the transfer process for 
shareholdings to another nominee. And not being able to transfer meant customers 
were stuck with the one business and not be able to sell out of their shareholdings if 
the price was bad/suspended. The fact that the investigator interpreted the terms 
differently than her would suggest that they were unclear and misleading. If Mrs Q 
had known she couldnt transfer her shareholdings she wouldnt have signed up with 
Trading 212.
She wasnt satisfied with the checks that had been made to ensure Trading 212 
made sufficient efforts to execute limit orders. This was crucial to her complaint. She 
didnt think it was fair to make a judgement call and wanted a clearer explanation 
about what had happened on each occasion she had provided photo evidence of 
Trading 212s failings. She didnt agree with the explanation that all the stocks were 
volatile.
Mrs Q had provided evidence that no other brokers had concerns over stocks that 
Trading 212 had restricted. She said the sudden and continuous suspension of 
stocks was questionable. And that Trading 212s arbitrary decision to accommodate 
its lending practices was detrimental to its clients. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Q has requested redress for the loss she says she suffered on her positions and wants 
her account transferred to another broker or the cash equivalent of around £71,500, 
compensation for loss of trading of approximately £50,000 and £10,000 for the stress and 
anxiety she has been caused. She would like for her account with Trading 212 to be closed.
But after reviewing the complaint I agree with the outcome put forward by the investigators 
and broadly for the same reasons. So, I wont be upholding the complaint or make any order 
for redress. Ill explain why. 
I would first like to say that I appreciate that Mrs Q feels strongly about her complaint. That is 
clear from the very detailed submissions she has made, and the evidence provided to 
support her complaint. And I thank her for the efforts she has made. However, in my 
decision, I will only be addressing the points that I consider most pertinent to the complaint 
and may not be going into as much detail as Mrs Q would like. I dont mean any discourtesy 
to Mrs Q by this. 
In bringing her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, Mrs Q summarised her primary 
complaint points which were the prevention of her trading, locking of her account and the 
inability to transfer her shareholdings. She also referred to Trading 212s suspension of 
trading stock, manipulation of prices, sudden background checks and its misleading 
statement about it being a zero-commission firm.
As a background to my findings I should make clear I am aware that, in particular, towards 
the end of 2020 and going into January/February 2021 international stock markets were 
extremely volatile. This caused a strain on the entire execution system worldwide and 
affected almost all trading platforms. All participants in the stock markets had a regulatory 
responsibility to act prudently and which continued to be the case.In response, Mrs Q wasnt satisfied with the conclusion reached by the investigator about 
Trading 212s ability to restrict Mrs Qs attempts at trading as she would have liked. And Mrs 
Q has referred to her inability to trade out of stocks shortly after purchase because of 
suspension or the price being artificially reduced so as to make a sale unattractive. Mrs Q 
thinks Trading 212 manipulates prices to suit itself. 
With reference to the prevention and suspension of trading, Trading 212 has given us an 
example of email conversations it had with its intermediary about suspension of trading in a 
variety of shares. I know Mrs Q doesnt think these all relate to her complaint as some of the 
stocks mentioned in the investigators opinion werent held by Mrs Q, but I do find this 
evidence is compelling. 
Unfortunately, this evidence is confidential and restricted in its distribution so I cannot give 
details in this decision, but it does give insight into the issues Trading 212 experienced and 
which were particular to its business alone, so not comparable with other businesses who 
may have offered a similar service. Overall, I am satisfied it provides examples of evidence 
of dialogue about the suspended and buy/sell only stocks and Trading 212s attempts at 
resolution or finding reasons for any delays with its intermediary in order to inform its 
customers. So, I dont have any reason to think it didnt take the same or similar action in the 
event of the halting or suspension of any other stock. And that it was outside of its control 
and as such, its actions were in line with its terms and conditions.  
It also has to be remembered that Mrs Q traded in penny stocks. Penny stocks are usually 
associated with smaller companies with a lack of liquidity, meaning that there may be few 
ready buyers in the marketplace. As a result, investors may find it difficult to sell stock since 
there may not be enough buyers. Because of the low liquidity, wide bid-ask spreads or price 
quotes, investors might have difficulty finding a price that accurately reflects the market and 
which seems to have been the situation for Mrs Q.
This service is a quick and informal dispute resolution service and so were not here to carry 
out forensic audits. So, I havent looked at each trading example Mrs Q has provided in any 
great detail. Instead, my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of a complaint and, in doing that here, Im satisfied that Trading 212 has given a sufficient 
sample of what happens between its back offices and its intermediary when a shareholding 
is suspended or its trading is limited as well as Trading 212s attempts at resolution. 
And it is not for this service to prescribe how a firm should run its business or operate its
services, whether it be a zero commission or otherwise. We are not the regulator and we do 
not fine or punish firms. Our remit mainly relates to addressing alleged wrongdoings by firms 
and any detriments or loss allegedly associated to a complaint. Any one business will 
manage its own business differently from others, whether that be the stocks it offers, its 
pricing methods or its commission charging structure as examples.
I know Mrs Q has highlighted that she was able to carry out trades with other platforms that 
she wasnt able to execute with Trading 212. But I cant make any findings or comment on 
this. It is for any business to run its own services how it sees fit. And logically, I dont think 
its unreasonable to assume that a business would try to ensure that the services it offered 
its customers were fit for purpose in order for it to attract and retain custom.
Mrs Q has said she effectively had no choice about staying with Trading 212 as she couldnt 
transfer her account in specie and the selling prices she was being offered were unattractive. 
I address Mrs Qs comments below about the transfer of her account and I dont have insight 
into Trading 212s policy for pricing. But again, I would think Trading 212 would try to be competitive with its pricing, so I think its more likely any pricing issues Mrs Q experienced 
were caused by stock market conditions or liquidity/volatility issues particular to the stock 
she was trying to trade in. 
Mrs Q has referred to only a small number of her limit orders being fulfilled compared with 
the number of market orders executed. She said this was detrimental to her position. Mrs Q 
was told that it may have been because her orders were below £100   but she said she had 
been able to trade in those amounts, or that she was buying fractional shares  again which 
she had been able to trade. Mrs Q says many of her limit orders were rejected by Trading 
212 when the order was placed and had to proceed as market orders instead. Mrs Q wants 
details of each limit order that was cancelled and the reasons why. 
This isnt something I can look into, as quite simply, that information isnt available. I wouldnt 
expect a business to keep records of each and every limit order that was rejected, unfulfilled 
or cancelled. Clearly, I cant know the reasons why either a limit order was rejected as soon 
as it was placed or didnt complete  over and above the fact that the limit order price/size 
etc wasnt met. And in the absence of a forensic examination of each and every failed trade I 
dont think its unreasonable to conclude that this is one of the vagaries of trading in penny 
stocks and one of the risks associated with that, such as liquidity and volatility issues. 
Mrs Q has referred to her inability to purchase shares in many companies at the end of 
January 2021. As mentioned above, I am aware that in January/February 2021 in particular 
the stock market was extremely volatile, caused by social media platform comments which 
increased interest in several companies. The unprecedented market activity caused an 
extreme strain on the entire trade execution ecosystem worldwide and effected almost all 
trading platforms.
As examples, the impact of this were additional equity/liquidity requirements, FX providers 
exchanging large amounts of currencies, trading halts and market makers not willing to offer 
prices. Trading 212 was obliged to take reasonable steps to trade, but if its terms allowed, it 
had some discretion to not execute a trade. But this had to be applied fairly.
Around this time Trading 212 had said the outsized trading volumes in certain shares 
generated substantial risk exposures at firms that clear these trades. Many execution 
intermediaries, including the business used by Trading 212, had to stop accepting buy 
orders in certain stocks until additional funds were cleared and transferred. The enhanced 
funding requirements were put in place by the regulator to ensure market stability as for 
settlement purposes, the broker had to have sufficient equity in place to support the trade. 
And this volatility could impact on a brokers equity for all markets it was trading in and not 
just those shares.
And in response to stock market turbulence, on 29 January 2021 the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) made an announcement;
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw 
their services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they 
consider it necessary or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and 
therefore more likely to need to take such actions during the periods of abnormally 
high transaction volumes and price volatility.
We will of course take appropriate action wherever we see evidence of firms or 
individuals causing harm to consumers or markets.
And while it could be considered that Trading 212 was being prudent in not offering all of its 
shares for trading on its platform, I think in reality the cause was because in some circumstances was its execution intermediary restricting its access to the shares, albeit the 
outcome being the same as referenced in the regulators statement  about being prudent  
and in line with its own terms of business.
Mrs Q has referred to lack of notification in advance of a stock being suspended or limited to 
buy/sell only. She feels that Trading 212 would have been aware of this and customers were 
disadvantaged in not being given notification. Mrs Q has complained that she was able to 
buy a stock only for it to be suspended shortly after. 
My understanding of stock market notifications similar to this is that no warning would be 
given. If it were, it would be akin to insider trading where some investors were aware of 
information to the detriment of other investors. And notifications can come from several 
sources, the company itself, the exchange it is listed on, changes in regulation or 
intermediaries putting limits on trading for whatever reason, as examples. Again, I think this 
is one of the ups and downs experienced with stock market trading, and even more so for 
smaller companies such as penny stocks which might have a limited trading history and 
subject to more volatility. And Trading 212 only acted as an execution only broker. So I dont 
find that Trading 212 has acted outside of its terms and conditions with regard to the stocks 
it offers and the potential of the inability for a customer to trade.
After Mrs Q opened her account in November 2020, she was later asked for identity checks 
in March 2021, which she thought coincided with her bringing her complaint and she 
questioned this. However, while this must have been frustrating for her while her identity 
documents were checked, I wouldnt expect a regulated business to respond to a complaint 
by disrupting a customers ability to trade in such a way. So, I think it unlikely the two issues 
were connected. 
After being so dissatisfied with the service she received from Trading 212 Mrs Q considered 
transferring her account to another product provider. 
Mrs Q provided us with the terms and conditions that she said applied to her account. 
Clause 13 says;
13.1. You instruct us to hold any Investment bought on your behalf until we receive 
further instructions from you to sell that Investment or transfer it into your own name 
or to another nominee. We will hold Investment on your behalf in accordance with the 
FCAs Client Assets Rules. 
However, when Mrs Q asked about transferring her account to another provider, she was 
told this wasnt a service that Trading 212 offered and never had. She would need to sell her 
shareholdings and transfer the resulting cash. Trading 212 said it wasnt under any legal or 
regulatory obligation to do so, and that as a brokerage company, it only supported money 
transfers, due to various anti-money laundering policies as well as security compliances. 
I think the above term does potentially suggest that an in specie transfer of Mrs Qs account 
would be possible. We asked Trading 212 about this. It said that it had never been able to 
facilitate transfers of holdings in specie. Such functionality had never been developed within 
its services. 
It further said that clause 13.1 was part of its wider terms and conditions when Mrs Q 
opened her account. It was a general clause governing the obligations of Trading 212 in 
respect of client assets. Specifically, it stated that it would continue to hold client assets 
under the clients instructions until it received an instruction from a client to transfer. But that 
clause did not stipulate that Trading 212 actually facilitated the in specie transfer of a clients assets to another platform. The request for transfer to another nominee would mean the 
investment would need to be sold in order for that transfer to proceed. 
Trading 212 said that in March 2021 clause 13.14 was added to its terms. It said that clause 
specifies that in specie transfers were not currently possible and where requests were 
received from clients wishing to transfer their assets to another firm, Trading 212 would 
liquidate the assets to cash before transferring that amount to the new provider. The same 
applied to in specie transfers into a Trading 212 account  they must be in cash form. This 
all suggests to me that this wasnt a service that Trading 212 had ever offered but that it 
tightened up and provided additional wording to its clauses to better inform its customers. 
I accept its a matter for Trading 212s own commercial judgement, to decide whether it will 
or wont support account features such as in specie transfers. Trading 212 has been clear in 
its submissions that it does not and has never intended to offer this feature. And theres no 
broad requirement for the firm to support it. So, in my view, it is not unfair of Trading 212 to 
refuse Mrs Qs request to transfer elsewhere, in specie. 
However, I am, to a point, persuaded by Mrs Qs argument that Trading 212s terms when 
she opened her account potentially seemed to imply that in specie transfers were something 
it could offer its customers. Ive therefore considered whether the events of this complaint 
are likely to have unfolded any differently if the terms had been clearer from the outset.  
Mrs Q argues the presence of these ambiguous terms was a significant factor in her decision 
to open an account with the firm. And that had she been aware Trading 212 didnt support in 
specie transfers, she wouldnt have opened an account with it in the first place. I can 
appreciate Mrs Q is frustrated to learn shes unable to make an in specie transfer her assets 
away from Trading 212. But Im not persuaded by her argument here, which I think is more 
likely made with the benefit of hindsight. 
In my opinion, the factors which are likely to be significant in a persons decision to choose a 
trading platform, will be account features the platform provider actively promotes. This 
usually includes factors such as the cost of trading, the availability of assets, and the 
technology that powers the platform. 
In this case, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Trading 212 ever actively promoted in specie 
transfers as being an account feature. In my view, the only suggestion this might be possible 
is an ambiguous statement, located deep within the firms expansive terms and conditions. 
Theres nothing Ive seen which suggests this term was given any significant prominence 
elsewhere in Trading 212s literature. Because of this, Im not persuaded Mrs Q is likely to 
have placed any significant weight on this at the outset of her becoming a client with the firm. 
I think it is more likely she will have chosen to become a client as a result of the features 
Trading 212 chose to actively promote to its prospective customers. And Im satisfied this did 
not include any suggestion that it supported in specie transfers. 
It seems more likely to me, especially given that shes made an in specie transfer with 
another firm in the past, that Mrs Q likely assumed Trading 212 offered this feature to its 
customers. I can understand why she might have made an assumption like this, given the 
feature is common amongst Trading 212s competitors. But as Im not persuaded Mrs Q 
made her decision to invest on the strength of Trading 212s ambiguous term, Im not 
persuaded events would have unfolded any differently, had it been clearer at the outset. 
In light of all that Ive said above, I dont find Trading 212 to be at fault.
I dont doubt that Mrs Q will be disappointed with the outcome. But I hope I have been able 
to explain how and why I have reached my decision. And I am grateful to Mrs Q for her 
patience throughout our consideration of her complaint, and for the detailed submissions she 
has made.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Qs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman