DRN-3360680
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express services Europe Limited (Amex) recorded a payment 
arrangement on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Amex says Mr O contacted it in March 2020 to say hed lost his job. The contact notes 
provided by Amex show Mr O discussed a Care plan with it during February 2020 but he 
went on to explain it wasnt required. There was no contact recorded in March 2020. On 7 
April 2020 Mr O contacted Amex and explained that, due to the pandemic, his contract 
had been terminated and he was looking for some support. A Care Plan was discussed 
and Amex confirmed it would reduce the interest rate and fix his monthly payments for six 
months.
On 9 April 2020 Amex introduced further support options after the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) introduced Payment Deferral Guidance for borrowers impacted by the 
pandemic. The guidance said businesses could offer temporary support for three months 
with no payments. The guidance confirmed interest would continue to accrue but that 
there would be no payment arrangement or arrears recorded on the borrowers credit file. 
The FCA later issued follow up guidance that allowed lenders to extend the payment 
deferral period by three months.
Amex has confirmed it introduced the Payment Deferral Guidance on 9 April 2020. Mr O 
called Amex back on 13 April 2020 and agreed to proceed with the Care Plan option. 
Amexs evidence doesnt show it considered whether to offer Mr O support under the 
Payment Deferral Guidance. On 15 April 2020 Amex wrote to Mr O to confirm the plan had 
been set up.
Mr O cleared the outstanding balance in full in November 2020 and went on to raise a 
complaint as the Care Plan had been reported on his credit file as a payment 
arrangement. Amex didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O referred his case to this service and it was considered by an investigator. They 
thought Amex had dealt with Mr Os case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr O 
asked to appeal and said he was advised that the Care Plan would have no impact to his 
credit file in April 2020, before he decided to proceed. As a result, Mr Os case has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently asked Amex to give us some additional information as between Mr Os calls in 
April 2020 the FCA guidance concerning payment deferrals came into effect. Amex 
confirmed it offered payment holidays from 9 April 2020 onwards, in line with the Payment 
Deferral Guidance. As Ive said above, the guidance allowed businesses to offer an initial 
three month payment break but interest would continue to accrue. In addition, there would 
be no impact to the borrowers credit file. I asked Amex to explain why the Payment 
Deferral Guidance wasnt considered or discussed with Mr O.
Amexs response said there were no guidelines to offer someone enrolled on a Care Plan 
under the Payment Deferral Guidance. But Mr O wasnt enrolled on the Care Plan until 13 
April 2020, after the Payment Deferral Guidance option was put in place by Amex. And 
whilst there might not have been a specific directive to review existing plans, I think Mr O 
could reasonably have expected Amex to ensure he was on the most suitable plan 
available at the time of proceeding. And the evidence Ive seen shows the Payment 
Deferral Guidance option wasnt considered by Amex in Mr Os case.
Ive looked at whether the Care Plan was a better option for Mr O. Amex has pointed out 
the Care Plan reduced (but didnt remove) the interest rate it charged and that the Payment 
Deferral Guidance approach would have meant full interest accrued. Whilst that may be the 
case, its clear Mr O was very concerned about his credit file and the impact of any plan. I 
dont think the interest Mr O saved during the six months of the plan offset the impact to his 
credit file. And I also think its reasonable to note that if the Payment Deferral Guidance 
option had been taken up, Mr O wouldnt have had to make any payments during a period 
of temporary financial difficulty.
The Payment Deferral Guidance was intended as a short term option with a maximum of 
six months allowed without an impact to a consumers credit file. Mr O repaid the balance 
in full in November 2020, the month after the six month Care Plan ended. Im satisfied that 
shows Mr Os difficulties were temporary in nature and related to the pandemic. I think Mr 
O wouldve been a suitable candidate for the Payment Deferral Guidance issue by the 
FCA.
As a result, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint. Whilst I accept there was an interest 
saving, Im not persuaded that in itself meant the Care Plan was a better option for Mr O. 
As Amex had already introduced the Payment Deferral Guidance at the point Mr O called 
back to enrol on the Care Plan, I think it shouldve been discussed with him as well. Had 
Amex done that, I think Mr O wouldve proceeded on that basis.
Based on the information Ive seen, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Amex to 
amend his credit file to remove all adverse information, including the payment arrangement 
and any arrears, from his credit file between April 2020 and November 2020. I can also see 
this issue has caused Mr O some inconvenience with a mortgage application. And I think 
its fair to note the issues raised occurred during an already stressful time a result, I also 
intend to award £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider before 
I made my final decision. Mr O responded and confirmed he was willing to accept. Amex 
confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Os complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct American Express Europe Limited to 
settle as follows: 
- Amend Mr Os credit file to remove the payment arrangement and any arrears 
information recorded between April 2020 and November 2020. 
- Pay Mr O £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman