DRN-2664113
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has declined a claim made under 
their home insurance policy and voided their policy following a burglary at their home. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs G and Mr Gs home was burgled and several valuables were stolen. 
Mrs G and Mr G contacted QIC to make a claim under their Home Select policy and after 
considering the claim, QIC decided to decline it and void Mrs G and Mr Gs policy. It said this 
was because of a misrepresentation Mrs G and Mr G made when they failed to amend the 
value of their contents at renewal.
QIC said its valuations showed a single item worth over £2,000 and that £10,000 was not 
enough to insure all the valuables, contrary to the answers Mrs G and Mr G had given when 
they took out the policy. These answers also went unamended each time the policy was 
renewed.
Mrs G and Mr G say they were under the impression that all the jewellery was worth under 
£10,000 and were not aware that the policy replaced old items for new, which is why they 
answered the questions in the way they did, considering only the current value of the items. 
They also didnt think it was fair that QIC had only refunded 12 months worth of premiums 
when theyd held their policy since 2015.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt think QIC had done anything wrong. 
Mrs G and Mr G disagreed with our investigators assessment, and so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I do sympathise with Mrs G and Mr Gs situation, Ive decided 
not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
QIC declined the claim and voided the policy because it said Mrs G and Mr G made a 
qualifying misrepresentation at their renewal in 2019. Its also said the misrepresentation 
was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. So Ive considered whether I think thats a 
fair assessment of what happened.
Mrs G and Mr G bought their policy online through Money Supermarket in August 2015. 
After selecting QICs Home Select quotation, they were asked to confirm some details on the 
Policy Expert website. This included confirming that £10,000 would be enough to cover all 
the valuables and that there were no valuables worth over £2,000 each. I appreciate at this 
stage, Mrs G and Mr G may not have been aware that the policy provided new replacements 
for old items, and so may not have been aware what figures to use when valuing their items, 
but by the time Mrs G and Mr G renewed the policy in 2019, Im satisfied theyd been given 
the relevant information regarding the way claims would be paid and the new for old term.
This is because the renewal invitation stated Please check your cover levels carefully to 
make sure they still meet your needs which wouldve indicated to Mrs G and Mr G that 
theyd need to check this information at each renewal. The relevant law Ive considered is 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA says 
that as well as needing to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, a failure to 
comply with a request to confirm or amend particulars previously given can also constitute a 
misrepresentation. CIDRA also says the insurer can take certain actions as long as the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying one. So Ive thought about whether what happened here 
can be considered a qualifying misrepresentation.
A qualifying misrepresentation occurs when the insurer can show that it wouldnt have 
offered cover if the misrepresentation hadnt been made. And Im satisfied based on the 
underwriting evidence QIC has provided, that it wouldnt have insured Mrs G and Mr Gs 
contents within the home had it been told accurately that these were worth more than 
£10,000.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs G and Mr G took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation, and in doing so Ive considered everything Mrs G and Mr G have said 
about not being aware of the new for old replacement term of their policy. 
But I dont think QIC has been unfair in saying they didnt take reasonable care not to make 
the misrepresentation. The policy document says the following under What are my 
obligations?
When you take out, renew or make changes to your policy, you must take reasonable care 
to provide complete, accurate and up-to-date answers to all the questions we ask you and 
You must keep to all the terms and conditions of the policy, otherwise the contract may not 
be valid and you may not be able to make a claim. 
Further, the Home Select policy wording document also says its important that the insured 
tells the insurer if anything is incorrect. And the policy specifies under How much we will 
pay, that lost or damaged contents will be replaced as new and that it is the insureds 
responsibility to make sure the contents sum insured reflects the full value of the property 
insured. This is how much it would currently cost to replace each item as new.
Im satisfied therefore that Mrs G and Mr G ought to have been aware at the time of 
renewing the policy in 2019 that the policy replaced old for new and that giving inaccurate 
answers to the questions asked of them in 2015 and not amending these answers at each 
policy renewal would constitute a careless misrepresentation and would result in a declined 
claim and the policy being voided.
Mrs G and Mr G are unhappy that only 12 months worth of premiums have been refunded, 
when the policy has been voided as if it never existed. While I appreciate this point and have 
thought carefully about it, I dont think thats unreasonable because each year on renewal of 
the policy, a new policy contract was entered into. So the insurance contract that was held 
when the policy was voided was a one year contract and the notice of intention to void the 
policy gives a policy start date of 7 August 2019. This means QIC only voided the last year of 
the policy and therefore only had to refund one years worth of premiums. I think it was 
entitled to do this, because its shown a qualifying misrepresentation occurred at renewal in 
2019. So I dont think QIC has acted unfairly by refunding 12 months worth of premiums to 
Mrs G and Mr G.In response to our investigators view, Mrs G and Mr G have said the watch was bought pre-
owned for around £1,800 so they do not understand how it can be valued at over £6,000. 
While I appreciate Mrs G and Mr Gs comments, I have to consider whether QIC has acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And the policy says old items will be 
replaced for new. So Im satisfied this meant the price of a brand new watch would be the 
correct sum to insure, and not the current value of it. This is because, as QIC has explained, 
theres no guarantee that an older, pre-owned watch would always be available to purchase 
as a replacement, which is why the policy provides for new replacements only.
I know this isnt the answer Mrs G and Mr G were hoping for, and I appreciate that theyve 
had difficulty obtaining insurance elsewhere because of this. But I hope my explanation will 
help Mrs G and Mr G understand that QIC hasnt done anything wrong here, and why Ive 
made this decision.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G and Mr G, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman