DRN-2792221
The complaint
Mrs H complains about retirement projections supplied by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
(Aviva).
What happened
Mrs H said she was given a pension quote in 2017. After double checking by Aviva it
showed a terminal bonus of 206% and an annuity income of circa £31,000 per annum. In
2019 her retirement quotation showed a terminal bonus of 70% and an annual annuity
income of around £20,000 plus £60,000 tax free cash. She complained that the 2017 figures
mustve been incorrect as the difference in figures was so significant.
Aviva said there was no mistake. Mrs H complained that based on market performance there
seems no obvious reason for such a significant reduction in terminal bonus. Aviva didnt
agree and said it was affected by a number of issues.
Mrs H said that in the light of the 2017 figures her financial adviser said she had no option
but to stay with Aviva rather than explore transferring her benefits.
While producing retirement quotes in 2019 Aviva at one point produced one that quoted a
fund value in excess of £500,000 but later said that was an error. Mrs H said it made it very
difficult for her to plan as she couldnt be confident what income she would receive. She felt
the higher figure should be honoured, or compensation awarded. She also said they were
slow in producing retirement figures and in the form requested.
Aviva said it hadnt issued inaccurate figures and provided a note explaining the change in 
terminal bonus rate, while this was less than Mrs H hoped it didnt mean the actuary had
made an error in 2017. It apologised that some of the quotes requested didnt include the
benefits her IFA requested. It hadnt made a mistake in relation to the final bonus rates. It
didnt prevent her taking benefits at her retirement date. It wrote several months in advance
but didnt receive the information it needed to enable it to do this.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In summary I said that I had considered the papers and the 
2017 quotation which suggested an annual income of around £31,000 which was based on a 
guaranteed annuity rate and a terminal bonus of 206%.
Aviva had confirmed on several occasions that this was a correct projection of the position at
the time. I noted that the papers stated clearly these figures are estimates so it was clear 
they could be subject to change and were never guaranteed.
Mrs H said she relied on that quote and decided not to transfer to another provider and
wanted to be compensated by getting the higher figures. But the figures were estimates and
not guaranteed and so couldnt have been accepted even at that time. I didnt have any
evidence to show the figures quoted were a mistake. That meant I had no power to make
an award for financial loss or distress and inconvenience associated with the information
provided in 2017, even if she did rely on the information at the time.
I agreed that Aviva provided incorrect information during 2019 when Mrs H was issued a
quote with an income similar, to that in 2017. But Aviva quickly advised the 2019 figures was
not correct and issued in error. That was clearly a mistake.
Where there is a mistake the law would seek to put Mrs H back in the position, she wouldve
been in but for the mistake, which is the position she was now in. Not the position as if the
mistaken higher 2019 quote was correct, which would be the position if she was given the 
higher incorrect pension quoted in 2019. So, I dont think there is any financial loss because 
of the erroneous quote in 2019 as she was never entitled to the higher amount so hasnt lost 
out.
However, given the error in the 2019 figures and lack of clear explanation for the significant
change in the figures between 2017 and 2019 I could understand that Mrs H felt concerned
and upset that she was being deprived of what she had hoped to get back in 2017.
I noted also that the 2016 figures were much more in line with the 2019 figures and the 2017
figures represented a significant leap in value. I could understand why they were questioned 
at the time when she was considering moving away. It must have been frustrating that Aviva 
didnt clearly explain why the 2017 figures were so much out of line with the position before 
and after that date but maintained there was no error.
I could understand Mrs Hs disappointment that the figures changed so significantly by the
time she wanted to retire two years later.
I thought the receipt of incorrect information in 2019 mustve compounded her sense of
disappoint or left her feeling she was being denied something she thought she was entitled
to. I thought she suffered distress and inconvenience which was greater because of the 
higher historic figures which she says she relied on in deciding not to move away, and the 
lack of clear explanation. In the light of this I thought an award of £400 for distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should
pay Mrs H £400.00.
Aviva said it appeared the compensation had been based on the disappointment that Mrs H 
may have suffered when the value of her policy dropped between 2017 and 2019 due to the 
final bonus rate change. It said the final bonus was contractual and there was no error. It felt 
including this in the decision for the level of compensation was unfair to Aviva and was too 
high. It said correct values were provided to Mrs H in 2019. There was an error in providing a 
quotation in 2019 but this was quickly corrected. It didnt think £400 was fair and reasonable 
for a small delay in providing the correct values. The drop in the final bonus rate was correct 
and as such shouldnt form part of the decision as a basis for the level of compensation as it 
could only pay the fair value for the policy, based on the final bonus rate applicable at the 
time. It appreciated that Mrs H may have been disappointed with the drop in rate, but it 
wasnt an error and it didnt feel Aviva should be held accountable for the disappointment 
she suffered due to the difference in the values.
Mrs H said she would like this service to get Aviva to confirm the figures quotes in 2017 were 
correct. It seemed very unlikely there could be such a huge difference between the income 
quotes in 2017 and the final income figure provided in 2019, particularly when there was no 
such reduction in the fund value.
When she challenged the income figure in 2017, she highlighted that a much higher fund value would be needed to support that level of income. But she was assured the figure was 
correct. Aviva expressly confirmed that the figures were accurate, and they had been 
reviewed by its senior actuaries who had confirmed they were correct. She was therefore 
surprised by the 2019 income figures particularly when the fund value was higher than in 
2017. She challenged the 2019 figures and was assured they were correct despite the 
income being considerably lower than the figures from 2017. But in October 2019 they 
completely contradicted themselves by sending a quotation stating that the fund value was in 
excess of £500,000. This proved to be incorrect. If Aviva were unable to provide correct 
figures in 2019 it made her question whether the 2017 figures were correct.
Mrs H wanted Aviva to categorically confirm that: -
The fund value and income quoted in 2017 were both correct (i.e. no mistake was 
made at the time)
The reason there was such a big reduction in the income figure quoted in 2017 and 
the lower income figure offered in 2019, when the fund value had increased
The reason the incorrect fund value was quoted in October 2019
In light of the above, she believed Aviva should offer something considerably greater than 
the £400 suggested in the provisional decision. The difference between the income figure 
quoted in 2019 and what she was quoted in 2017 is £6,920 pa. She felt that if Aviva were to 
offer the sum of £6,920, this would be a more appropriate way to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience she has suffered. She felt this was reasonable, particularly 
considering this only represents the reduction in income for the first year, whereas she was 
led to believe she would receive this extra income each year for the rest of her life.
She appreciated the income figure quoted in 2017 was not guaranteed, but such a huge 
reduction between 2017 and 2019 seemed extremely unlikely, particularly when the fund 
value had increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Aviva has said.
The purpose of an award for distress and inconvenience is to reflect the impact on Mrs H. 
This will be affected by her personal circumstances and as such means that awards cannot 
be directly compared between cases where personal circumstance will differ.
The error in the 2019 quotation was quickly corrected. But it showed a potential income at a 
much higher level than other quotes issued in 2019. Her reaction to the 2019 quote error 
needs to be looked at in the light of her personal situation. To have a higher quote issued in 
2019 undermined her trust that she was being given the correct income that she was entitled 
to in 2019. As she said in her reply to my provisional decision, if Aviva were unable to 
provide correct figures in 2019 it made her question whether the 2017 figures were correct 
and therefore created a sense of distrust about all the figures supplied by Aviva. So, the 
context of the error is relevant to the impact on Mrs H. It is for this reason that I felt an award 
greater than I might have awarded for a simple administrative error was fair and reasonable. 
I note what Mrs H has said, but Aviva has already confirmed there was no error in the 2017 
figures and there is no need to ask for further confirmation that the figures were correct. I understand her frustration about the 2019 error and her desire to understand why the 
mistake was made and to get a further explanation for the reasons there was such a 
difference between 2017 and 2019. But even if Aviva gave a further explanation it would not 
make a difference to my decision. I say that because the 2019 quote was an error and Mrs H 
wouldnt have been entitled to the higher 2019 figure. Further my award for distress and 
inconvenience is based on the impact of that error on Mrs H. So for those reasons I have not 
asked Aviva for a further explanation. 
If Mrs H remains dissatisfied with Avivas explanation for the difference in the figures, she 
could refer the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority. While this will not bring her a 
personal resolution it would draw the issue to their attention.
Mrs H suggests a much higher figure for my award. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, she is receiving the income she is entitled to. The purpose of my award is not to 
compensate for financial loss nor to punish Aviva, but to reflect the impact of the error in 
2019 having regard to her personal context at the time. 
My award for distress and inconvenience is based on the non-financial impact on Mrs H so 
does not bear any relation to the amount of her perceived financial loss when compared to 
the 2017 figures. So, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I think the 
award of £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In the light of my reasons award of £400.00 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs H 
£400.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman