DRN-1866586
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a number of disputed transactions that 
debited his account.
What happened
Mr J contacted Santander on 17 November 2019 to report numerous fraudulent transactions 
totalling around £5,250 which were made from his account between August and November 
2019. The transactions were card not present payments, of differing amounts  both low and 
high value transactions. Mr J says he doesnt recognise the transactions and he didnt make 
or otherwise authorise them himself. He also doesnt know how anyone could have got 
access to his card details. 
When reporting the transactions to Santander Mr J explained hed lost his old phone and 
had got a replacement. So, hed only logged onto the mobile banking app the day before his 
call on 17 November 2019 to report the transactions. The mobile number Mr J provided to 
Santander in this call was the mobile it had registered for him.
In this call the agent mentioned text messages sent to Mr J due to flagged payments. Mr J 
said hed not received these. He referred to a previous complaint hed made  where 
genuine transactions were stopped but he didnt receive any messages from Santander. In 
relation to the previously stopped genuine transaction Santander said it was unclear why 
contact was not made with Mr J in relation to those flagged payments. It paid Mr J £75 
compensation in recognition for the inconvenience caused.  
Mr J provided Santander with an email from his mobile phone provider dated 19 November 
2019 which referred to network issues during Mr Js phone upgrade and technical difficulties 
in receiving messages on the phone number. It also said Mr J didnt receive any text 
messages from Santander over the last few weeks due to this. 
Santander said it wont refund the transactions made from Mr Js account. In its final 
response letter, it said the transactions were made using multiple internet protocol (IP) 
addresses and a device which has been used for genuine spending. Santander say the IP 
addresses used are linked to Mr Js mobile phone and internet providers and, have been 
used to log onto his online banking on a number of occasions. It added itd seen transactions 
where a One Time Passcode (OTP) was sent to Mr Js registered mobile number. Santander 
say this level of authentication would have required a unique code  sent to the registered 
mobile number to be input to authorise the particular payment which had flagged. Santander 
reviewed the email provided from the phone provider and didnt consider this to be sufficient 
to overturn its decision. 
Mr J didnt agree with what Santander said and so he brought the complaint to our service.
Mr J in his contact with our investigator told us he had his old phone during September and 
October 2019, which had the SIM card inside it. He said he applied for a phone upgrade but 
was delivered an empty box  with no phone or SIM. After getting in touch with his phone 
provider a new phone was sent to Mr J. Hes told us no SIM was delivered at this point and 
so he put his old SIM inside the new phone. Mr J confirmed to us that he was living alone at 
the time (in August 2019 at the time of the first disputed transaction and for the rest of the 
year). He added that his card was with him all the time within his wallet and he doesnt know 
how anyone could have obtained it without his knowledge. When speaking with our 
investigator Mr J commented his card could have been hacked or compromised. 
Our investigator, having considered the available evidence was persuaded the transactions 
were more likely made and authorised by Mr J. 
Mr J didnt agree with our investigators assessment, although no specific points have been 
made by him in response. Hes asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done so, my review of the available evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for broadly the same reasons. I will 
now explain why. 
Were the transactions authorised?
Our investigator already explained in his view the regulations that we consider when looking 
at a case like this. To briefly re-cap: -
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the 
payer (in this case Mr J) has consented to it. The payment service provider (in this case 
Santander) must show the payment was authenticated. But its not enough for Santander to 
simply rely on the fact that Mr Js card details were inputted to make the transactions. 
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because Mr J is liable for
payments he has authorised and, generally speaking, Santander is liable for unauthorised 
payments. Although account holders can become liable for unauthorised payments when 
they havent met certain obligations. 
Mr J told us that at the time of the first disputed transaction in August 2019 and for the 
remainder of 2019 he was living alone. Hes also said that to his knowledge there was no-
one who couldve gained access to his card which was kept within his wallet. Given this, Ive 
needed to consider how plausible it would have been for an opportunistic fraudster to gain 
access to Mr Js card details and mobile devices in order to have been able to make the 
disputed transactions. 
Santander has provided information that shows the IP addresses used to make some of the 
disputed transactions have been linked to Mr J. And within call notes between Santander 
and Mr J, he confirmed he is a customer of the phone network provider and home internet 
provider that has been linked to the IP addresses. Further, Santander has given us 
information which shows OTP codes were sent on two occasions to the registered phone 
number it had for Mr J  the same number he confirmed within his call to report the transactions with Santander  to which it received responses from confirming the 
transactions which flagged were genuine. Mr Js said he didnt receive these messages.  
Ive thought about what Mr J has said around not receiving the messages from Santander 
and, in turn, the responses confirming the payments to be genuine not coming from him.
There has been differing information provided to Santander and our service around what 
happened in relation to Mr Js phone. In the call to report the disputed transactions with 
Santander Mr J said his phone had been lost. But in a discussion with our investigator, he 
told us the phone hadnt been lost and that he was having a phone upgrade. He explained 
hed initially received an empty box, and after contacting the phone provider, a replacement 
phone was sent to him, which he placed his old SIM into. 
Based on what Ive seen and been told, its unclear what happened at the time with the 
phone upgrade and around the empty box that was received. However, even if I consider 
that an opportunistic fraudster was able to gain access to Mr Js phone, I have to keep in 
mind that he told us he placed his old SIM into the replacement phone  I cant see how the 
fraudster would then have been able to go on to make the transactions which are in dispute. 
I say this because, even if a third- party had gained access to the phone they would still 
have needed to know Mr Js card details. This doesnt seem plausible given hes told us he 
was living alone and that his card was kept in his wallet which he has no knowledge of 
anyone being able to have access to. 
With this in mind, Im not persuaded that an opportunistic fraudster was able to intercept the 
phone which wasnt delivered and, who had also managed to gain knowledge of his card 
details in order to be able to carry out the transactions. 
Mr Js provided an email from his phone provider which refers to network issues during the 
phone upgrade and, technical difficulties in receiving messages on the phone number. It also 
says Mr J didnt receive any text messages from Santander over the last few weeks due to 
this. Having considered the email provided, Im afraid I cant be as sure as Id need to be to 
say this evidence on its own supports that the transactions werent made by Mr J. I say this 
because there are some peculiarities within the email - for example, it doesnt contain a 
signature of the person who sent it from the phone provider and while the email says over 
the last few weeks - this doesnt specify the period of time which was affected by the network 
issues. Given this, Im not persuaded this in isolation is enough to make me as sure as Id 
need to be, that on balance, it is more likely than not that the messages werent received by 
Mr J or that the transactions in dispute where carried out by a third party. Further, Mr J has 
told us he placed his old SIM into the new phone he received, so in the absence of any other 
evidence, Im not persuaded the messages werent received. I also have to keep in mind that 
the notes of telephone calls between Mr J and Santander in November 2019 document that 
he made incoming calls from the registered mobile number Santander had on file, which was 
the number the OTP codes were sent to.  
From my experience and what Ive seen in cases such as these, I find it unlikely that an 
opportunistic fraudster - who had gained access to Mr Js phone and who then was 
somehow able to have knowledge of his card details, went on to make numerous 
transactions over such a prolonged period of time. In situations such as these, a fraudster 
generally looks to spend as much of the funds as quickly as possible. 
Mr J has said his card couldve been hacked or compromised. Ive thought carefully about 
this, but Im not aware of any mechanism by which a fraudster could hack his card remotely. 
And even if a third party managed to obtain Mr Js card details by phishing it still wouldnt 
explain how they managed to carry out the transactions. So, this point doesnt persuade me 
to come to a different finding to the one Ive explained above.  Taking all the above points into consideration and in the absence of a more likely 
explanation, I find, on balance, that Mr J authorised the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman