DRN-3709468
The complaint
Miss F complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) didnt communicate with her about a 
direct debit set up to repay a loan. Miss F was also unhappy with the service provided by 
Ikano. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
key events here. 
Miss F bought a sofa from a furniture retailer, which was financed through Ikano. Ikano sent 
Miss F a letter on 20 December 2021 outlining the loan and direct debit details. 
Miss F received a text message from Ikano at the end of January 2022 that said she missed 
the first direct debit payment. So Miss F called Ikano. The Ikano adviser told Miss F that a 
welcome pack was sent to her in December 2021, but Miss F said she didnt receive this. 
Miss F agreed to pay the amount of the outstanding monthly payment while on the phone. 
Miss F raised a complaint during the call, as she was unhappy with her contact with Ikano.
Ikano phoned Miss F on 1 February 2022. It acknowledged the welcome letter was sent 
during the busy Christmas period. It also said it could see Miss F was on hold on two 
occasions for a total of 15 minutes and apologised for this, although it said this didnt exceed 
the allowed wait time. Ikano thought the call with the adviser could have been handled better 
and offered £10 compensation. Miss F said the call wait time was 38 minutes, said she 
would try to provide more information about this and declined the compensation. The 
complaint was escalated. 
Ikano looked at Miss Fs complaint again. It wrote to her and reiterated what it said during 
the call on 1 February 2022. It said no further information about the length of time Miss F 
was on hold had been provided, but it increased the offer of compensation to £30, as it 
thought it could have handled her complaint better. Miss F declined the compensation. 
Miss F remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this Service. She said she had 
never heard of Ikano bank and so found it confusing that it was communicating with her. She 
said the adviser wasnt helpful when she called, and complaint handling was very poor. 
Miss F thought Ikano should have apologised to her and compensated her £250 for the poor 
service provided. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. He said this Service cannot consider 
Ikanos handling of Miss Fs complaint as this is not an activity that was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He said he couldnt see that Ikano had done anything 
wrong as, although Miss F didnt receive it, Ikano had sent the welcome letter indicating 
when payments would be taken to Miss F in December 2021. When the first payment was 
missed, it contacted her to let her know, which it was obliged to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue here is that Miss F said she wasnt aware that the direct debit had been set up, 
much less that it had been cancelled. So she was surprised to receive a text message from 
Ikano saying she had missed a loan repayment. 
Miss F said she didnt receive the welcome letter sent by Ikano in December 2021. This 
might well be the case. But in looking at whether Ikano did anything wrong here, I need to 
consider whether the letter was sent by Ikano. 
Ikano provided this Service with a copy of the letter, which I can see was correctly 
addressed. So Im satisfied its likely this letter was sent to Miss F back in December 2021. I 
take on board that Miss F said she didnt receive it, but Ikano has no control over what 
happens to letters once they are posted. So, for the purposes of considering whether Ikano 
made any errors here, its enough for it to show that the letter was sent. 
Miss F also complained about the service she received when she spoke to an Ikano adviser 
on 27 January 2022. She was unhappy about the length of time she was placed on hold. I 
appreciate it can be frustrating to have to wait for some time before speaking to an adviser.  
But Ive listened to the call in question, and I can see that the adviser told Miss F that if she 
wanted to speak to a manager at that point, then it might take some time to arrange that, if in 
fact it could be arranged. The adviser took time to explain an alternative process that would 
have meant Miss F didnt have to wait. But Miss F said she was willing to stay on hold while 
the adviser tried to get hold of a manager. As I said, waiting can be frustrating and time 
consuming, but I dont think Ikano made any errors here, as the situation was clearly 
explained to Miss F.
Miss F also complained about how her complaint was dealt with, including how the manager 
who called her on 1 February 2022 dealt with matters. But, as our Investigator explained, 
this Service is not able to deal with every complaint thats brought to us. The rules under 
which we operate  the dispute resolution (DISP) rules  outlined in the FCA handbook, 
dont allow us to consider how a business has handled a complaint, as its not an activity 
regulated by the FCA. So I cant consider this complaint point.
I know my decision will disappoint Miss F, but I am not asking Ikano to take any further 
action here.  
I can see that Ikano has already offered Miss F £30 compensation and I will leave it to 
Miss F to decide if she would like to accept this. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman