DRN-3959259
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc trading as The One Account (RBS) 
hasnt done enough to protect her against the loss of money to a scam.
What happened
Mrs B says that in 2016 she was cold called by a company that I will call C. She 
subsequently signed up with it and opened an account. Once this account was opened she 
made a number of payments from her RBS account and her credit card account over a 
period of ten months totalling over £70,000.
Some months later after failing to be able to withdraw her funds from C, Mrs B discovered 
that she had been scammed. Mrs B says she also queried this in 2017 but my understanding 
is that she was told that she would not be offered a refund but she did not actually raise a 
formal complaint at this time.
Mrs B reported to RBS that shed been scammed in 2022 via her representative. RBS 
declined to refund Mrs Bs transactions. Mrs B remaining unhappy and referred her 
complaint about RBS to us. Our investigator did not recommend that RBS refund the 
transactions. Mrs B did not agree with this outcome and therefore the case has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think RBS could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mrs B says 
she lost to a scam. This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process 
payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations 
and terms and conditions of the account, Mrs B is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, RBS should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
I can see that at the time of the transactions Mrs B had received a large amount of money 
into her current account on several occasions and had made several large purchases and 
transfers. In relation to the credit card account the payments were not so large that I wold 
consider an intervention was needed. In this context the payments to C would not stand out 
sufficiently for me to conclude that RBS should have intervened when they were made. The 
payments were spread out over a large period of time and size wise they were not 
sufficiently large on their own at the start to have prompted intervention from RBS. By the 
time the payments were larger and closer together Mrs B had been making payments to C 
for several months. So, I dont think an intervention was warranted.  
RBS do not have any records of contact between it and Mrs B at the time the payments were 
made. Mrs B says she was contacted via text but only to confirm that she had made the 
payments.
This means that as RBS didnt interact with Mrs B at the time of the payments  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say RBS ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mrs B about them  Im satisfied RBS didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payments being made before they were sent.
Additionally, I am not sure whether any intervention would have changed Mrs Bs decision to 
carry on with the transactions. I say this because investment scams such as the one that 
Mrs B has described were not as common in 2016 and there were no warnings about C at 
the time the payments were made so all RBS could have done if it had intervened was 
provide a generic warning. Given what Mrs B has said about her interactions with C she 
seems to have been completely convinced that C was genuine. So even if I thought that 
RBS should have intervened and provided a generic warning, I dont think that it would have 
made a difference.
In relation to the debit card payments the only recourse to recover the funds would be a 
chargeback. But given the timescales involved I dont think that RBS could have attempted a 
chargeback for these transactions, so I dont think RBS did anything wrong in relation to this. 
I note that Mrs B says that she contacted RBS around the time of the scam but I cant see 
any record of Mrs B making a formal complaint or fraud claim at this point. By the time I can 
see that she did contact RBS the timescales exceeded those for a chargeback.
In relation to the credit card payments potentially there could be some recourse to recover 
the funds under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act but Mrs B has not provided enough 
to demonstrate that there was either misrepresentation that persuaded Mrs B to enter into a 
contract with C nor that there was any breach of contract either.
Overall, I have great sympathy for Mrs B and I understand that this will be really 
disappointing for her. But I can only recommend RBS refund the transactions if I think it did 
anything wrong and for the reasons above, I dont think that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman