DRN-2928721
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by Mr O, complains about the progress on a claim under a buildings 
insurance policy. 
What happened
There is a detailed history and indeed one of my ombudsman colleagues issued a final 
decision on certain matters in October 2019. In that decision he required the insurer to do 
two things;
- Pay the cost of Mrs Cs engineer to report on the causes of subsidence and the 
efficacy of the piling system;
- Pay Mrs C £1,000 compensation.
Those issues are not matters that we can look at again.
The complaint Im looking at now was initially presented by Mr O as Fairmead refusing to 
make payment for the engineer and failing to formally assess the efficacy of the piling 
system. As stated, these are not matters we can look at.
In setting out the scope of the investigation for this new complaint the investigator identified 
the following issues;
- Delays and issues about works themselves required a site visit which Fairmead 
would accommodate after Covid restrictions were lifted,
- Mrs Cs fall in the garden and whether Fairmead was responsible for leaving the 
garden with uneven paving slabs,
- A short delay in providing a report to Mr O (4  5 weeks).
The investigator concluded that Fairmead accepted it had erroneously declined a quote for a 
report it had obtained. While drains had been identified as a possible cause for subsidence 
this wasnt followed up when it could and should have been causing delay to the overall 
remedial completion. And paving flags were identified as needing to be reinstated as they 
were uneven and a trip hazard.
The investigator didnt think that Fairmead should be held responsible for Mrs Cs trip in the 
garden as the state of the garden was known and shed been asked not to use it. But he did 
think compensation was warranted for not being able to use the garden in its full capacity 
and recommended Fairmead pay £400.
Fairmead accepted the compensation, albeit reluctantly, and said it would instruct an agent 
to consider a temporary option to mitigate the paving stone hazard.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator saying there had been no investigation into the piling 
system. He didnt think the compensation was enough for leaving an unsafe garden and the 
upset this caused. Mr O later gave us information about two falls that Mrs C allegedly had in 
her garden (March and June 2020). He says these were due to an exposed trench left by 
contractors. Mr O has outlined the impact of the falls on Mrs C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As can happen with complex buildings insurance claims, Mrs Cs is taking some time to 
resolve. Im not able to look again at issues weve already determined and so like the 
investigator will focus on new aspects that have arisen since my ombudsman colleagues 
final decision in October 2019.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Cs garden issues and considered the information and 
photographs provided. And like the investigator Im not persuaded that within this complaint 
it would be fair to hold Fairmead liable for Mrs Cs alleged falls.
Its apparent the garden wasnt in a pristine condition and there were piles of 
gardening/construction material/debris. From photographs Ive seen there were routes of 
access and egress, and while paving slabs may have been uneven all parties were aware 
(including Mr O) of the garden issues and for some time. And the pandemic effectively 
denied Fairmead of an opportunity to assess and put temporary measures in place if needed 
after the initial lockdown in March. 
Fairmead would have been able to assess the garden prior to the pandemic, as could Mr O 
and Ive taken that into account. Ive also factored in that the relationship between Mr O, who 
was effectively dealing with the claim for Mrs C, and Fairmead and its agents wasnt without 
its challenges and disagreement which prevented the claim from moving on.
All that being said, Fairmead could have done something more to make the garden, or at 
least part of it more amenable to be used by Mrs C. And Im satisfied that £400 reflects the 
inconvenience of the limited use Mrs C had.  
Ive considered the information Mr O has sent about Mrs C falling in the garden. The 
information isnt contemporaneous to the alleged dates of the falls and theres nothing of a 
persuasive nature that Mrs C fell in the garden or that it was due to something Fairmead 
could be held liable for. While I acknowledge the pictures show some minor injuries, and I 
trust Mrs C has made recovery, theyre not of such evidential weight that I can reasonably 
link them to something Fairmead did or didnt do.
To move the entirety of the claim forward, if there remain outstanding issues, Mr O acting on 
Mrs Cs behalf and Fairmead and its agents will have to work together in a meaningful way. 
Insurance companies are experts at dealing with claims within the confines of an insurance 
contract. They have access to relevant professionals in their field and understand that 
theyre required to perform a lasting and effective repair. Sometimes consumers and 
insurers disagree with what needs to be done to put damage right, or the method of putting it 
right. But that doesnt mean an insurers preferred method is wrong. Of course, theyre not 
infallible and sometimes things go wrong, or structurally theres an overwhelming body of 
disagreement with an insurers proposal. Where there is disagreement that one method of 
repair may be better than another, provided the insurer can demonstrate their proposal will 
be lasting and effective, their obligation is usually fulfilled. It seems to me that Mrs Cs 
interest is best served by expediting the repair and/or putting right any outstanding issues. 
And both Mr O and Fairmead should bear this in mind rather than let continued 
disagreements delay Fairmead providing a lasting and effective repair.Putting things right
Pay Mrs C £400 compensation for the impact of the restricted use of her garden. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C £400 
compensation.
The compensation must be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell Fairmead 
Insurance Limited Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman