DRN-2861294
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited is failing to provide her with an item 
she believes she is entitled to receive. That item is a copy of a recorded call from June 2020.
 
What happened
Mrs S took loans from Provident in or around 2017. The details of those loans are not 
relevant to this complaint. When Mrs S completed and sent her complaint form to this 
Service in September 2020 she explained that she was repaying Provident at £20 a week. 
So, the relationship between Mrs S and Provident existed then, and likely remains now. 
Mrs S moved address and in her complaint form Mrs S has said that for some reason my
address did not get changed. A letter Provident sent Mrs S to her old address in or around 
June 2020, is the root of the upset here. Later in that complaint form Mrs S explained that 
she was not going after Provident. Mrs S has not complained about Provident sending the 
letter to the wrong address. 
A third party obtained the opened letter and telephoned Provident about it. Mrs S maintains 
that laws have been broken as that third party pretended to be her and was getting 
information from Provident about her. 
Provident has responded to Mrs S complaint and its final response letter (FRL) explains that 
the recorded call between a Provident representative in June 2020 and a third party had 
been listened to by the complaint handler. That person confirmed to this Service  
no Data Protection Breach, occurred during the conversation with our call handler.
Since then Provident has explained to our adjudicator that 
A letter was received by a third party at their address which is the former address of 
the customer. They rang Provident to confirm they have received a letter from 
Provident but the customer no longer resides there. We thanked them for letting us 
know, asked if there was a forwarding address which there wasnt and asked the 
letter be securely destroyed. Absolutely no discussion took place about the 
customers personal details as we abide by GDPR.
Providents reference to GDPR is the General Data Protection Regulations. 
These facts are a part of the background as Mrs S complaint form makes it clear she wants 
a copy sent to her of the June 2020 telephone call between the Provident representative and 
the third party. Mrs S said on her complaint form 
I would like the recording so I can hear who it was on the phone.
Our adjudicator, having obtained additional information from Provident, wrote to Mrs S to say 
that Provident was not going to do that. It had explained to our adjudicator 
..this is with a third party so for their data protection rights were unable to provide 
the call.  
Our adjudicator explained to Mrs S that the Information Commissioner (IC) at the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) deals with alleged data breaches and it would be an option for 
Mrs S to report it to the IC at the ICO. 
 
Mrs S has said:
I feel that not only opening my letter then getting someone to be me is very wrong 
and breeches [sic] my private business and security. It is against the law to open 
other peoples mail and dangerous to make out your [sic] someone when your [sic] 
not. Im grateful for your time but I want this matter taken further because they have 
broken the rules and my private business.
And 
I feel it is very serious when someone pretends to be you and ask your information.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken time to give a lot of detail in the what happened section of this decision. 
I have considered the GDPR and the relationship between the actions of the parties on the 
date the June 2020 telephone call took place and the background to the complaint as 
described by Mrs S and Provident. 
Mrs S has not actually complained about the letter being sent to the incorrect address. I do 
not know the background of how and why Provident were not informed of her new address. 
The events of the day on which the June 2020 telephone call was made to a Provident 
representative may never be totally clear. The persons who will know what was said during 
the call are the persons involved and the Provident investigator who has listened to that call 
recording. 
I do not have the call recording evidence. What I do have is an assertion by the Provident 
complaints department investigator that having listened to the call then no data breach in 
respect of Mrs S data occurred. I have no reason to disbelieve that assertion, but I have not 
heard the oral evidence myself. 
Even if the call had been sent to me to listen to, this Service is not able to make any 
determinations about alleged data breaches and if Mrs S wishes to report that element 
I must reiterate what our adjudicator has said which is that the IC at the ICO is the person to 
investigate that. So, I leave that element of the complaint there.  
I do think it was unfortunate that Providents representative said in its FRL that it would send 
a copy of the call recording to Mrs S and then altered its view. Provident thinks its not able 
to release a copy of that call recording to Mrs S. Provident is concerned about the very same sets of rules and regulations about which Mrs S is concerned  protection of personal data. 
Provident thinks those GDP rules would likely be breached if that call recording was 
forwarded to anyone else. This is Providents explanation as to why it has not, and will not, 
send that call recording to Mrs S or to this Service. 
The grounds for its change in opinion (to not send the recording to Mrs S) appear sound as 
to do so, in its opinion, would have led to a breach or potential breach of the GDP 
regulations. It is not within my remit to determine whether Provident is right or not as the ICO 
is the body to investigate that.   
I would be going beyond my remit to conclude and direct that Provident must do an action 
which is contrary to a set of regulations and so I am not going to do that. 
And for those same reasons, it does not seem fair or reasonable to contemplate awarding 
any compensation against Provident for that change of opinion (that is  saying it would 
send a copy of that call and then deciding not to send it to Mrs S) when the grounds for its 
change in opinion appear sound. 
The background to the complaint is that the reason for Mrs S wanting that call recording is 
not to establish that Provident has done something wrong, but that, in her view, the third 
party has done something wrong. I say that for two reasons:
A) because Mrs S in her complaint form has explained, I did tell them it was not them 
that I was going after, the them in this sentence referred to Provident; and 
B) because Mrs S explanations to our adjudicator as to why she wished the complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman was because she feels that the third party has done 
wrong.
Having thought about this carefully then I do not think I can make any findings on this aspect 
as the respondent to this complaint is Provident. The issues Mrs S has are in relation to a 
third party, but this complaint has been brought against Provident which is what I have been 
asked to deal with. So, for all of these reasons I do not uphold Mrs S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman