The complaint
Mr B complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his chargeback.
What happened
Mr B says he hired a car in 2018 that he returned during the hire period as he could smell 
smoke. He says the car hire company charged him over £1,000 which it should not have 
done as he didn't damage the car. Mr B says he shouldn't have to pay for 
maintenance issues and complained to Lloyds. He says Lloyds told him he authorised the 
payment and didn't uphold his complaint. He also complains about how Lloyds handled his 
complaint.
Lloyds accepts it didn't deal with parts of Mr B's complaint as it should and gave him 
incorrect information about amounts credited to his account. It has apologised for that and 
paid £150 compensation. Lloyds says it raised a chargeback that the car hire company 
defended and it provided evidence that Mr B had agreed to the charge and so couldn't take 
the complaint any further.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator explained the chargeback rules. The 
investigator thought Mr B had been charged for a new clutch for the vehicle, and he had 
agreed to the hire company's terms and conditions. In those circumstances the investigator 
thought Lloyds had acted fairly by concluding that it couldn't take the chargeback any further.
The investigator accepted Lloyds had given incorrect information to Mr B but thought the 
£150 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr B doesn't accept that view and says the hire car wasn't road worthy, and he shouldn't 
have to pay for maintenance problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by 
my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
The investigator has explained that  the chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by 
the card providers with no guarantee of the recovery of money. Lloyds is not responsible for 
its rules or how it is run, but we would expect a chargeback to be raised if there are 
reasonable grounds for doing so. I'm satisfied that Lloyds did raise a chargeback, but it was 
defended by the car hire company, And the car hire company provided evidence that Mr B 
agreed to its terms and conditions which included a charge for a replacement clutch. So I 
DRN-1504172don't think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by reasonably concluding that it had 
taken Mr B's chargeback as far as it could and there were no longer any reasonable 
prospect of recovering Mr B's money.
I appreciate that Mr B says the vehicle was not roadworthy and that he should not have to 
pay for its repairs. But I think those are matters he will need to take up with the car hire 
company, and those are not issues Lloyds can fairly decide upon.
There is no doubt that Lloyds did give Mr B incorrect information during the chargeback 
process. I  have no doubt that caused Mr B inconvenience and distress. But I'm satisfied 
Lloyds has apologised for those mistakes and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation.
Overall I'm satisfied Lloyds raised a chargeback and did what it could to help Mr B recover 
his money. But it was given evidence that meant it was entitled to conclude there was no 
longer a reasonable prospect of a successful outcome for Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman