DRN-2570498
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt given him 
clear information about how his motor insurance premiums have been calculated. 
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr Y contacted LV after receiving a quote to renew his motor insurance policy. 
The charge for his protected no claims discount (NCD) was showing separately on the 
quote. It was also showing as a separate item on quotes for the previous two years. But prior 
to that Mr Ys premiums hadnt been itemised and he was concerned that he might have 
been overcharged for his protected NCD. So, he asked LV for the historical cost of his 
protected no claims discount.
LV said it couldnt provide Mr Y with the information hed asked for. But it had looked into his 
previous claims. Two collisions occurred on the same day in September 2017. LV said they 
had been correctly recorded as two incidents on the claims database, but as a gesture of 
goodwill, LV had removed one of them. This had reduced Mr Ys renewal premium by 
£29.57.
Mr Y remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was 
unusual for LV not to hold a breakdown of premium costs for previous years. He also 
thought there wasnt enough evidence to say LV had unfairly applied extra charges to Mr Ys 
premium in relation to his protected NCD in previous years. He thought LV had acted fairly 
by making a favourable amendment to Mr Ys records, even though incidents had been 
reported in line with industry practice.
Mr Y disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think LV was being open and 
transparent about how it had calculated his premiums. So, his complaint was passed to me 
to decide.
While LV had removed one of the non-fault accidents of September 2017 from the claims 
database, it had only reduced Mr Ys premium for 2020. I explained to LV why I thought it 
would be fair to reimburse Mr Y the extra he paid in 2018 and 2019 as well  with 8% per 
annum simple interest from the date the premium was paid until the date it refunds the 
money.
Although LV didnt agree with my reasoning, it said it was willing to reimburse the previous 
years premiums. Weve been in touch with Mr Y, who said he would accept this. But he still 
wanted a final decision on his complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ys complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr Y initially complained to LV because he wanted to know how much hed been charged for 
his protected NCD prior to 2018. LV says it isnt able to provide the historical cost. I 
appreciate this is frustrating for Mr Y. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr Y 
was overcharged for his protected NCD in previous years.
Mr Y would also like to see how LV has calculated his premiums. He says he wasnt aware 
he was being charged for accidents he hadnt claimed for. 
Insurers take a number of factors into account to assess the risk of a policyholder claiming 
and the likely cost of a claim. They use this information when setting premiums. Its up to 
each insurer to decide which factors to take into account and how much weight to place on 
them. 
It isnt this services role to tell an insurer how to calculate its premiums. But we would expect 
it to treat consumers fairly and consistently with its general approach to pricing.
Mr Ys insurance schedules for 2018 and 2019 show three accidents under claims or 
accidents in the last 5 years. One was in July 2018 and two in September 2017. LV says 
these were all recorded as non-fault claims. In 2020, LV removed one of the September 
2017 accidents and this resulted in Mr Ys premium being reduced by £29.57.
 
LV says that although the September 2017 accidents happened on the same day, they were 
separate incidents, meaning that they were recorded correctly at the time. But as no costs 
were recorded on the second claim, LV was able to remove one from the database in 2020. 
It says it took into account that there was very little chance of receiving any kind of the 
dispute from the third party insurer in relation to the second area of damage. LV has recently 
agreed to adjust the premiums back to the first renewal after the incident and refund Mr Y 
the difference. I think this is fair.
I understand Mr Y would like to know how the two accidents that remain on his policy have 
affected his premiums. LV has provided us with confidential business sensitive information to 
explain how Mr Ys price increase was calculated. This isnt something we are able to share 
with Mr Y. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Y has been treated unfairly. All LVs 
customers in Mr Ys position are likely to have been charged a similar premium.
Although Mr Y wasnt found to be at fault for the accidents he was involved with, its not 
unusual for insurers to take these into account when assessing the risk of future claims. I 
understand Mr Y thinks this is unfair. But as Ive said, its not this services role to tell an 
insurer which factors to take into account when calculating premiums. NCD protection also 
wouldnt stop premiums from rising in the event of a claim. The base premium would 
increase before the NCD is applied.
I appreciate Mr Y feels LV should be open and transparent about how it sets its prices. But 
LV isnt required to detail how its premiums are worked out as long as its given clear 
information about the cover. Mr Y is under no obligation to remain with LV when his policy 
term comes to an end. The insurance market is very competitive, and Mr Y has the freedom 
to choose a different insurer if he finds one that he believes provides better value for money.
Putting things right
LV should:Reimburse Mr Y for the extra he paid in premiums for 2018 and 2019 as a result of 
two non-fault accidents being recorded for September 2017, rather than one.
Add 8% per year simple interest to the above from the date the premiums were paid 
until the date the payment is made*. 
*If LV considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from the interest it should let 
Mr Y know how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Y a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ys complaint and direct Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman