DRN-3063369
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Campania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) declined his 
claim for stolen items and voided his home contents insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr A and his family went on holiday. While they were away their home was burgled and 
jewellery was stolen. Mr A made a claim to Ocaso and provided a breakdown of the stolen 
items along with his valuation, which he said was circa £19,000. 
Ocaso referred to the policy terms that say, High Risk Items: are covered up to 30% of your 
contents limit shown in your schedule With a single high-risk item limit of £2,000. It said Mr 
A didnt accurately disclose the value of the jewellery, as in his insurance claim he valued 
individual items in excess of £2,000. 
The company decided to void the contents insurance policy, treating it as though it had 
never been in place. Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to this service. 
This resulted in Ocaso reviewing its decision. 
Ocaso then reinstated the insurance policy. In its response the company says it initially 
considered Mr As valuation of several gold chains and pendants as one article. This meant 
its single high-risk item limit was exceeded. However, it says these should have been treated 
as separate items. 
Ocaso reconsidered Mr As claim for losses and arranged for the stolen jewellery to be 
valued. The valuation came in at close to £43,000 with several individual items exceeding 
the policy limit. Because of this, Ocaso reinstated its earlier decision to avoid the contents 
policy from inception and decline the claim. Mr A complained to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this. She decided that although the valuation estimate 
given by Mr A was found to be inaccurate, it did not constitute a qualifying 
misrepresentation under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Because of this she felt Ocaso had had acted unfairly in declining the claim 
and avoiding the policy. 
The investigator recommended Mr A should receive the full sum payable for the jewellery 
according to the policy term limits. Ocaso disagreed and a further review was completed. 
The investigators decision was maintained. 
Ocaso remained unhappy with the decision and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am minded to uphold Mr 
As complaint. Let me explain.
Firstly, the approach taken by Ocaso to consider several gold chains as one item of jewellery 
and the same with several pendants, appears unfair and unreasonable. In his initial claim Mr 
A grouped together six gold chains valued at £3930 (£655 each) and four pendants valued 
at £3,800 (£950 each). However, it was made clear this was a combined value. Its not 
obvious why Ocaso decided the combined value should be treated as one item. 
The company initially concluded that the combined value of the gold chains and the 
pendants exceeded the £2,000 single high-risk item limit. Because of this it declined the 
claim and voided the policy. 
The company later wrote to Mr A in August 2020 to explain it had reversed this decision after 
assessing his argument that the items should be considered separately and not as part of a 
set. 
I havent seen anything that shows the chains and pendants should reasonably have been 
valued as one item. Because of this I think it was correct for Ocaso to reverse its decision 
and reinstate the policy and consideration of Mr As claim. However, its actions did clearly 
cause a delay in its handling of the claim. 
Ocasos second decision
Ocaso wrote to Mr A again in December 2020. In this letter it explains its reasons to 
reinstate its original decision to decline the claim and void the policy. I note our reference to 
CIDRA when assessing his complaint. However, the business does not refer to this in its 
reasoning. My focus here is to consider the reasons the company gave in support of its 
decision and decide whether this was fair.
In its letter from December 2020 Ocaso says there was a breach of Mr As duty to disclose 
correct information relating to high risk items valued over £2,000. It says the sum insured for 
£50,000 in respect of contents cover, is deemed to be underinsured. It then goes on to talk 
about the Statement of Fact document it sent to Mr A. It says it relies on this information to 
decide whether to agree insurance and on what terms.      
 
Ocasos letter includes the following:
As shown under section Your Contents of your Statement of Fact, you answered the following 
questions:
Question Answer
Cost to replace all your contents £50,000
High risk items valued over £2,000 No
Total High Risk items limit Up to £15,000
Individual high risk items details Blank
The statement of fact sent to Mr A with his renewal notice in August 2019, includes the 
information set out in the above table. 
I have thought about whether this is a true reflection of the information Mr A gave. 
Mr A first applied for the policy using a price comparison website. He followed this up with a phone call to Ocaso directly. I have listened to the recording of this call. 
At the start of the call Mr A is asked if hes sure the information he provided, on the 
comparison website, was accurate. He said no, which resulted in the call handler going 
through the application questions again and recording Mr As responses.  
He was subsequently asked if he had any individual items valued over £2,000, to which he 
replied no. It was explained to him what a high-risk item was, such as jewellery, furs, 
watches, pedal cycles etc.  
Later in the call Mr A is told the policy provides contents cover up to £50,000. The call 
handler then says if he is happy, she will get the policy set up for him. Mr A asks some 
questions. After this he is told the policy covers valuables up to 30% of the contents sum 
insured. With a single item limit of £2,000.
 
I have not had sight of what Mr A was asked within his web application. However, during the 
call it is not accurate to say he was asked a question about the total high-risk item limit of 
£15,000. Rather he was told what the policy provided, which was 30% of the total sum 
insured. It appears this limit was implemented based on the answers Mr A gave on the price 
comparison site. 
Although Mr A did not answer a question in the call about the total high-risk item limit - it is 
true to say he made no comment to query the sum insured, or single item limit when this was 
mentioned. It is also reasonable to assume the call handler was referring to information Mr A 
had already given on the price comparison website. 
Considering all this, I think it reasonable to conclude Mr A understood the total and single 
item limits that form part of the policy. He did not think he had individual items worth more 
than £2,000. And he was aware that valuables were covered up to 30% of the total sum 
insured, which equates to £15,000.    
Valuation
When Mr A first claimed for his loss, he provided a list of the stolen jewellery and confirmed 
what he thought the value of each item was. Ive seen the information he sent to Ocaso. This 
includes weblinks against each item to show comparable jewellery he found available on the 
internet. I understand this approach to valuing his stolen items was suggested by the 
company.
Mr As calculation came to circa £19,000, using online comparables as he had been asked 
to do. None of the items he valued was over £2,000. He describes difficulties finding exact 
matches for the jewellery that was lost.
Ocaso arranged a professional valuation of the stolen jewellery in July 2020. The report 
identified several items had a value in excess of £2,000 with a total valuation circa £43,000.
In its decision letter in December 2020 Ocaso refers to its policy terms that say:
High risk itemsThese are the items that are more at risk than other general household 
goods, they are usually targeted when there is a burglary or theft and commonly have a 
higher cost than most other general contents.
High risk items are covered up to 30% of your contents limit shown in your schedule. With a 
single high-risk item limit of £2,000The company then explains it was Mr As duty to take reasonable care when taking out the 
policy to ensure he was not mispresenting his circumstances. It says:
Should you have been unsure as to whether your high-risk items needed to be disclosed or 
their value then you would have been expected to take reasonable steps to establish the 
necessary information, or alternatively spoken to your insurance broker for information. 
In its letter Ocaso says its final stance is to uphold its original decision to remove contents 
cover with effect from inception of the policy. It says it will process a refund of premiums 
paid. 
The rationale Ocaso gave for voiding the policy is that Mr A did not take reasonable steps to 
establish the value of his jewellery. I have thought about what reasonable steps means, and 
what this means in relation to the information Mr A provided to Ocaso.
The valuation for circa £43,000 was made by a professional jeweller. I dont think take 
reasonable steps can mean that Mr A should have expected to arrange a professional 
valuation in advance of his application. If this was expected by Ocaso it wasnt explained to 
him.       
At the time of the initial claim Ocaso gave instructions for Mr A to itemise the stolen items 
and provide weblinks to comparable goods. It is reasonable to expect this exercise took 
some time and effort to complete. If this was the approach Ocaso expected Mr A to take at 
the time of his application, again this wasnt explained to him. Im not persuaded that this is 
what the average person would expect to do when applying for this type of insurance.
Based on the information I have seen, it wasnt mentioned in either the initial call or 
subsequent communication, what steps Mr A should take to value his jewellery. In its 
decision letter Ocaso says he should have spoken to his broker for guidance.
If the company expected a specific approach to valuing high-risk items, it did not make this 
clear. Mr A explains most of jewellery was bought abroad some time ago. He says he did not 
think its combined value was greater than £15,000 and no single item was likely to be worth 
over £2,000. As a result, he felt the sum insured and individual item limit covered him should 
he suffer a loss. 
I think its fair to say Mr A was not expecting the expert valuation to come in at the level it 
did, as he genuinely didnt know his jewellery was worth that much. But based on the 
questions asked, I dont think this means he didnt take reasonable steps to provide 
accurate information. 
As above Mr A bought most of his jewellery abroad, some time ago. He based his 
understanding of its value on what he bought it for. He explains it was difficult to find close 
comparisons online, when making his claim. However, when doing so, he still did not value 
any item above £2,000 and the total value, although higher than the £15,000 policy limit, was 
far closer to this, than the jewellers expert valuation of £43,000. 
I dont think reasonable steps for the average person applying for a home insurance policy, 
can mean a professional valuation is expected. Similarly, I dont think a detailed review of 
online comparisons is something the average person expects to do when making an 
application. 
Mr A based his valuation on what he paid for the jewellery. I dont think this was 
unreasonable. If Ocaso expected reasonable steps to mean something more specific for 
high risk items, I think it fair for this to be made clear at the time the policy was taken out.    In considering all of this, I think Mr A did take reasonable care to provide accurate 
information, based on what he thought his jewellery was worth. I dont think Ocaso acted 
fairly in voiding his policy and declining his claim. This means it should reassess Mr As 
claim based on the limits set out in the policy. In addition, it should acknowledge the 
inconvenience and hassle caused by the delays in handling this claim with a payment for 
£200.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Ocaso SA, 
Campania de Seguros y Reaseguros to:
reconsider the claim based on the terms and limits agreed at the inception of the 
policy; and 
pay Mr A £200 for the inconvenience and hassle caused by the delays in handling his 
claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Ocaso responded to say it accepted my provisional decision, as did Mr A.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr A and Ocaso accepted my findings, so my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I decided Mr A had taken reasonable care to provide accurate information about 
what his jewellery was worth. I didnt think Ocaso acted fairly in declining the claim and 
avoiding the policy. 
To be clear Im not instructing Ocaso to accept the claim  Im asking Ocaso to reconsider 
the claim based on the terms and limits agreed at the inception of the policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As 
complaint and Ocaso SA, Campania de Seguros y Reaseguros must:
reconsider the claim based on the terms and limits agreed at the inception of the 
policy; and 
pay Mr A £200 for the inconvenience and hassle caused by the delays in handling his 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman