DRN-2589506
The complaint
Mr A says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
  
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr A between December 
2018 and May 2019. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate Repaid InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Combined 
Repayment
1* 13/12/2018 22/12/2018 6 £300.00 £94.80
2 29/12/2018   01/01/2020 12 £800.00 £132.80
3* 26/02/2019 28/02/2019 3 £100.00 £182.00
4 10/03/2019 17/05/2019 3 £300.00 £280.40
5 16/05/2019 Outstanding 3 £100.00 £329.60
* Loans one and three were cancelled.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint about loan 5 and said that loan shouldnt have been 
given. Mr A disagreed and said he didnt consider any of the loans should have been given. 
Satsuma agreed with the adjudicators conclusions. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
The adjudicator concluded that they hadnt seen enough to say it was unreasonable for 
Satsuma to arrange loans one to four for Mr A. I agree with those conclusions. The loans 
were arranged during the early part of the lending relationship, and loans one, three and four 
were for relatively small amounts.
Loan two was for a higher amount than loan one. But Mr A had withdrawn from loan one 
within a few days of taking it out. So Im not persuaded that the increased amount for loan 
two meant that Satsuma had to carry out detailed checks of Mr As finances before arranging 
that loan. From what Ive seen, I think the information available to Satsuma meant it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to arrange loan two. 
I think Satsuma ought to have done more before agreeing loan four and, for example, 
verified Mr As financial information. Had it done so, Satsuma wouldve seen that Mr A had 
other open forms of longer term lending and some credit card debt. And even though Mr A 
had previously made use of short term lending, at the time he arranged loan four it seems he 
didnt have any other outstanding short term debt, other than his second loan with Satsuma. 
So from what Ive seen, even if Satsuma had carried out more detailed checks on Mr As 
finances, Im not persuaded there was enough evidence to suggest to the business that it 
wasnt appropriate to arrange loan four. 
And so Im not upholding Mr As complaint about loans one to four. 
When Mr A applied for loan five I think it wouldve been reasonable for Satsuma to verify 
what hed told it about his income and outgoings. Had it done so, I think Satsuma wouldve discovered that by that time Mr A had three other short term loans with other lenders, as well 
as loans two and four that remained open with Satsuma. He was also managing two long-
term loans and three credit card debts. And with that knowledge, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Satsuma to conclude that loan five was unlikely to be sustainable for Mr A.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr A, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that the overall number of loans or the period of time 
over which they were taken meant there was a pattern that shouldve been of concern to 
Satsuma.
Im upholding the complaint about loan five and Satsuma should put things right. 
Putting things right  what Satsuma needs to do
In deciding what redress Satsuma should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not given Mr A loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr A may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr A would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Satsumas liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right Satsuma should
refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on loan five; 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr As credit file.
I understand there was an outstanding balance on loan five when Mr A brought his 
complaint to this Service. I dont know if that loan remains outstanding or if Mr A has 
since repaid it or its been written off. If there are amounts remaining, Satsuma 
should remove any interest and charges that make up the balance, and treat the 
payments Mr A made as payments towards the capital amount. If Mr A has made further payments, Satsuma should refund any payments above the original capital 
amount to Mr A, along with 8% per annum simple interest.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part. I direct Provident Personal Credit 
Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Mr A compensation as set out above  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman