DRN-3331703
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way 1825 Financial Planning and Advice Limited (1825) has 
managed his investment portfolios. He feels that no work or active management was carried 
out during the periods of 2017 to 2019. Hes also unhappy that the Woodford Equity Income 
Fund (WEIF) remained a part of his investments even after it started to drastically 
underperform. Mr P has also complained that 1825 failed to act in a timely manner in 
transferring one of his pensions which he feels lost him the opportunity of growth on that 
pension.
What happened
Mr P, along with his wife, had been customers of 1825 (and its predecessor firm) since 2007. 
Mrs P has also brought a similar complaint against 1825 which is being dealt with 
separately.
Mr P seems to be a relatively experienced investor holding pensions and investments with a 
number of different firms. He held a couple of portfolios with 1825 and also used the adviser 
from 1825 for his overall financial planning. The management of these portfolios as well as 
the advice Mr P sought regarding transferring one of his pension plans is the focus of this 
decision.
Mr P feels that during the period of 2017 and 2019, when he terminated his relationship with 
1825, the stock market had performed well but this wasnt reflected in the growth of his 
portfolios. He feels 1825 failed to manage his investments to ensure they were in a good 
position to grow in value. He has said he also raised concerns about the continued inclusion 
of the WEIF in the portfolios when it started to underperform towards the end of 2017 but 
again no action was taken by 1825 to rebalance or amend his holdings.
Mr P has also explained that around March 2017 he approached 1825 as his financial 
adviser to review his pension arrangements and that he wanted to transfer one of his defined 
benefit pension schemes held with a previous employer (DB pension). He wanted to do this 
because he had been notified that it had a significantly enhanced transfer value at that point 
in time. However, Mr P has said that 1825 failed to progress this matter and even by the time 
he decided to leave 1825, some two years later, 1825 hadnt made any progress on this nor 
was it in a position to provide any advice in relation to his pension arrangements or indeed 
process the transfer request.
Throughout the first half of 2017 Mr P (and his wife) appear to have written to their adviser at 
1825 on a number of occasions to chase the work regarding the pension review and 
transfer.
Between June to September of 2017 Mr P and his wifes personal circumstances became 
temporarily difficult so they did not chase 1825 for progress during that time. And during that 
time Mr P didnt hear anything further from 1825.
In October 2017 1825 still didnt have all the valuations of all the pensions plans and the 
transfer value for the DB pension Mr P wanted to transfer had run passed its validity date. 
However due to their personal situations at that time Mr P asked 1825 to temporarily 
suspend this activity for a short time.
In May 2018 Mr P asked for this work to start again. And he has explained that until the point 
he decided to terminate his relationship with 1825 in June 2019 1825 continued to reassure 
him his investments were being actively managed and the pension work was underway and 
being reviewed but was never in a position to review Mr Ps pensions arrangements or 
advise on the transfer.
Mr P is unhappy that no progress was made on this matter for almost two years and feels 
that 1825 clearly didnt act in a timely manner. He said had it done so his DB pension would 
have been transferred before it had timed out and before he had asked 1825 to suspend any 
further work.
1825 responded by stating the suspension of the WEIF couldnt have been foreseen but 
acknowledged that reviews and the pension transfer didnt take place as they should have 
done. It acknowledged the level of service provided was not what it would normally expect a 
client to receive. It offered Mr P (and his wife) a total of £806.47 which comprised of 50% of 
the advice fee received for both Mr and Mrs Ps pension review along with £250 for the 
trouble and upset incurred. In relation to the overall management, or lack thereof, of the 
portfolio 1825 didnt feel it had acted incorrectly.
Unhappy with the response Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was assessed 
by one of our investigators. She was of the view that the fees charged for the pension advice 
should be refunded in full as she couldnt see what work 1825 had done to warrant those 
fees. The same applied to the management fees of the portfolio because again she wasnt 
persuaded 1825 had actively managed it. In relation to Woodford she didnt think its 
inclusion in the portfolio made it unsuitable so felt 1825 didnt need to do anymore in this 
regard.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 where I set out why I felt the complaint 
should be upheld. An extract is below and forms part of this decision.
Its first important for me to point out that this decision is made difficult by the lack of 
information from 1825. I did ask 1825 to provide further information about its relationship 
with Mr P along with evidence of what actions it took in relation to the management of Mr Ps 
investments during the time in question but 1825 hasnt provided anything further than its 
original file submission which isnt very detailed. So much of this decision is based on what I 
can glean from the little information that has been provided by 1825.
Management of the overall portfolios
I asked 1825 for full details of its relationship with Mr P and its terms of business so I could 
identify whether Mr P was paying for an actively managed service which would have 
included regular reviews and regular rebalancing of the portfolios in times of 
underperformance. But as mentioned above 1825 didnt provide any of this information. So, 
from the information I do have I have to assume that the relationship was as Mr P has said it 
was  the portfolios should have been actively managed and regularly reviewed.
Over the period of time in question the value of Mr Ps portfolios didnt change. This is 
unusual given he was obviously investing for growth. So with an actively managed service I 
would have expected to see 1825 address underperformance of the portfolios and amending 
it to provide more favourable growth. However this information hasnt been provided so I 
cant be satisfied that 1825 did this which in turn leads me to currently think that it wasnt 
managing the portfolio in line with its terms of business.I therefore think the total Mr P has paid for the management of his portfolio during this time 
period be refunded. If 1825 can clearly show me what those management fees charged 
were used for then this may change when I make my final decision.
Loss of opportunity for fund growth and investment in WEIF.
Given the nature of the WEIF I see nothing wrong with the fund being included in the 
portfolios from the outset. But by 2017 the fund started to underperform and didnt recover 
ultimately leading to its suspension in 2019. Further to this, the WEIF was recategorised in 
2018 to an all companies fund to reflect the decrease in the income the fund was producing. 
The fund also continued to invest more and more in unlisted securities from this time. So it 
follows that the changes in the WEIF would have changed the risk nature of the fund and in 
turn could have unbalanced the portfolios. So while I appreciate the collapse of the fund 
couldnt have been foreseen and many other financial advisers recommended their clients 
remain invested in WEIF, in this specific situation, because I cant be sure of what review 
and management took place of Mr Ps investments overall I cant be sure that 1825 did 
anything to the portfolios to mitigate loss or underperformance as a result of the changing 
risk levels.
The amount invested in the WEIF was relatively small. So it can be argued this didnt impact 
the portfolios. But due to the lack of information from 1825 I cant be sure of what action it 
took, if any, to help Mr Ps investments. So at this stage given the changes in the markets 
and the changes within the WEIF I think its likely the portfolios would have been amended in 
one way or another.
So for the two issues above, because of the lack of information I simply cant be sure that 
the portfolios during 2017 and 2019 represented the most suitable level of risk for Mr P due 
to the changes in the stock market and the recategorisation of the WEIF. And I have no 
evidence that 1825 managed the portfolios in line with the terms of business agreed 
between it and Mr P. It is therefore likely the portfolios would have been rebalanced at some 
point during this period, most likely when the WEIF was recategorised (April 2018).
Therefore, I have set out below what 1825 must do to correct this. Pension transfer work.
Mr P has told us that when he asked for the pension work to commence in March 2017, he 
had a transfer value for the particular DB pension that he wanted to transfer. This was
£357,000 which was 35 times the annual pension pay-out he would receive at retirement 
age so its not unreasonable he wanted to secure that. Hes told me he had no need to draw 
from the funds from this particular plan so saw great potential and merit in transferring it 
mainly because of the enhanced transfer value. This pension was from a previous employer 
scheme but as Mr P no longer worked there no monies were being paid into it therefore 
benefits under that scheme were only subject to nominal increases.
I am satisfied with Mr Ps reasoning as to why he wanted to transfer this pension. It seems to 
me he had thought carefully about doing this having regard to the fact the DB scheme was a 
valuable and secure pension to have. He has told me that this was the only pension he 
wanted to transfer due to the enhanced transfer value. He was happy to keep his other 
pensions, DB and otherwise, in place taking advantage of their security and guaranteed 
benefits. I am also satisfied that given Mr Ps knowledge, experience and reasoning 1825 
would not have objected to the transfer. So overall, I am satisfied the transfer of this DB 
pension would have happened within a reasonable time frame, which I think is three months 
from the date Mr P requested the review, had 1825 done all it should have. Ive also 
considered whether 1825 would have indeed advised Mr P transfer from the DB scheme 
given the valuable nature of these pensions and the secure benefits they offer. But I know 
that Mr P had a number of other pension plans in place including other DB schemes and looking at this financial position over all I see no reason why the transfer wouldnt have been 
made had no delays occurred.
1825 hasnt been forthcoming in explaining why it appears to have not progressed the 
pension advice and transfer issue for nearly two years. I have seen Mr P chased 1825 for 
progress on this matter before he instructed 1825 to temporarily halt any work on this matter 
and after Mr P instructed the work recommence. But I have no justification from 1825 for the 
delays nor have I seen any reason why the delays happened in the information submitted to 
me so I cant understand why 1825 werent able to progress this matter.
So in my view the transfer should have happened within in three months of Mr P instructing 
1825 to start its work and by not acting in line with Mr Ps instructions 1825 prevented Mr P 
from transferring his DB pension and locking-in the enhanced transfer value. And I am 
satisfied this should have happened at some point in 2017 as there was enough time for this 
to have taken place before Mr P halted the work towards the end of 2017.
However when looking at how to redress this error I must take into account the fact that due 
to the delays and after moving away from 1825 to a different adviser Mr P didnt end up 
transferring this DB pension. I am aware that after his new adviser carried out a full review of 
his financial position the original plan was still to move the DB pension, however at the same 
time Mr Ps wife was offered an enhanced transfer value for one of her DB pensions. So with 
the advice of his new adviser he decided to suspend the work on his DB plan and move 
forward with the transfer of his wifes pension instead. This was completed in April 2020 and 
in March 2020 Mr P finished full time employment and started to draw on the DB pension he 
initially wanted to transfer.
So what this means is that without actually transferring the DB pension Mr P hasnt suffered 
any actual loss. This is because whilst he was prevented from moving the pension by 
retaining its DB status he retained all the secured guaranteed benefits that form part of a DB 
pension, which included the security of the income paid out upon retirement as it wasnt 
reliant upon an investment for the benefit to grow in value. Mr P would not have had this had 
he transferred the pension to a personal pension as it would have been subject to the 
fluctuations in the stock market so there would be no way in telling how it would have 
performed and therefore what income would have been achieved by the time Mr P decided 
to draw on it.
I am also not able to quantify the loss because there is no way of predicting what potential 
growth the pension would have made had it been transferred  Mr P has told me he didnt 
know exactly where he wanted to transfer it at the time  so there are no values to compare 
it to.
However, I do agree that 1825 didnt handle the pension transfer request effectively or 
correctly  it seems to me it didnt follow Mr Ps instructions about his pension in 2017. I 
therefore think 1825 must pay Mr P an amount to recognise this and refund the adviser fees 
for this part of the work, in full.
1825 didnt respond to my first provisional decision.
Mr P provided numerous comments summarised below:
The PD states no loss was suffered because the DB pension wasnt transferred and 
therefore the secured guaranteed benefits that form part of a DB pension were 
retained but Mr P doesnt believe any of the subsequent DB activity is relevant. He 
feels some subsequent actions taken outside of the complaint timeframes have been 
conflated into the 1825 period which are not directly linked.Mr P stated he fundamentally believes the impact on his finances of 1825 not 
completing the transfer can clearly be shown and calculated.
The whole point of completing the transfer was to take advantage of capital gains 
through market performance where the intention would be that he ended up in an 
overall better position than the benefits from the DB would provide in the future. He 
stated he had no need to take the DB in the short to medium - this was a long-term 
project.
The transfer of Mrs Ps DB pension was made because it was financially 
advantageous to them and Mr P states he would have still transferred his main DB if 
this enhancement had not been offered.
Mr P did not decide to draw on the DB Pension because he needed to. This decision 
was based entirely on the fact that there was no hit in terms of taking it at 60 as 
opposed to 66. In addition, in overall payment terms it actually worked out better to 
taking it at 60.
Mr P has no confidence in 1825 to carry out this calculation, therefore he requests 
that it is done by this Service to ensure that it is fair and accurate.
Mr P feels the way the tax is dealt with in the methodology will severely impact him 
and so doesnt think the compensation is fair and reasonable. For it to be fair, the 
interest rate specified should surely provide him with the same recompense as the 
capital under performance calculation, taking his tax position into account.
The Ombudsman has selected the timing of the recategorisation of the Woodford 
fund for this. This was publicly announced on 22 March 2018 . Accepting this trigger 
point and the Ombudsmans methodology, he wants the decision to be specific on 
the dates. It should state 23 March 2018 for the start date of the WEIF calculation 
and 16 May 2019 (the date he instructed 1825 that it was no longer to act for him) as 
the end date.
Given the further comments provided I issued a second provisional decision. An extract of 
these findings are set out below and form part of this decision:
I remain of the view this complaint should be upheld. The proposed method of redress 
remains largely the same as initially set out on the first provisional decision but contains 
some further clarity.
I have considered carefully the comments provided. I must, however, be clear that in making 
my decision I must do so from an impartial perspective. If I deem 1825 to have done 
something wrong or acted unfairly in a way that has been detrimental to Mr P (as I have in 
this case) then I must provide a method of redress that is fair and reasonable to both parties 
and one that is not punitive  this isnt what this Service is for. All I can do is ensure that 
where an error has occurred Mr P is put into the position he would have been in, as far as 
possible, had 1825 acted correctly.
I know Mr P feels strongly about the losses he says he has incurred but I can assure him 
that in relation to the DB transfer aspect this is the approach this Service uses in similar 
circumstances. I also note the comments Mr P has made about 1825 as a business and its 
lack of responses to him and this Service during the process of this complaint. I understand 
his frustration, but this isnt something I can take account of in making my decision as I must approach this matter impartially and objectively.
Mr P says he would always have transferred his pension even if the enhancement was 
offered. But this isnt the case as the pension never was transferred when he moved to a 
different adviser. So while his intention was there this plan was superseded by a financially 
better decision and the fact he hasnt transferred the pension isnt something I can ignore as 
it significantly impacts the redress method required for the DB transfer part of the complaint.
While Mr P thinks I have conflated some events and what happened after he left 1825 is not 
relevant I can assure Mr P that they are indeed relevant when considering failure to transfer 
a DB pension that eventually was never transferred.
Mr P cannot benefit twice which in effect he would be doing if I proposed a redress/loss 
calculation for the DB pension because he has retained it and all its benefits. This would not 
be fair on 1825 and as I have already mentioned I must be mindful of making a fair and 
reasonable objective decision.
I appreciate I wasnt clear in the section where I mentioned I cant quantify the loss suffered. 
It is really more a case of there being difficulty in comparing what should have been 
transferred with what the DB pension is worth now  because Mr P hasnt actually 
transferred the DB and got it sitting in a pension somewhere (as a fund value). Only like for 
like can be compared and that currently doesnt exist. This can only be identified once the 
pension has crystallised in value which would be at the point of transfer. Obviously this 
hasnt happened therefore currently the comparison would have to be made between two 
different things which isnt correct.
Its also worth noting that when Mr P and his wifes finances are viewed together the prospect 
of there being a loss is even less clear as they presumably wouldnt have transferred Mrs Ps 
DB (and got this enhancement and claimed 60% gain) if theyd transferred his DB instead. 
There isnt a way of doing a calculation that factors in Mrs Ps losses or gains either though, 
because the two things arent inextricably connected in that sort of way.
With regards to the point Mr P has raised regarding the carrying out of the calculation, in 
most cases this Service will not actually carry these out. This is not our responsibility. We 
provide the methodology and it is for the business to carry out the calculation as it will have 
the most accurate valuations of the holdings at the various dates required. We can however 
check the calculations once they have been carried out by 1825 if that eases Mr Ps 
concerns.
With reference to the tax treatment- this is a standard approach which we use for all 
consumers. It will be for Mr P and 1825 to rectify any tax issues with HMRC directly as this 
service is not tax experts. If need be the tax can be reclaimed by Mr P once the redress is 
paid.
The announcement of the recategoristaion of the WEIF was made on 22 March 2018 but 
there is nothing I can see that states this would be immediately effective or effective from a 
different date. In light of that I think its fair to say that the review of the fund by 1825 in light 
of this recategorisation should be taken as starting from 1 April 2018.
1825 provided the client agreement and terms of business which were previously asked for 
and with the following comments:
Its records show that in:
oFeb 2017 - no change review carried out & client didnt want pensions 
reviewingoMarch 2018  Statement of Wealth and Portfolio Report provided and 
meeting held in April 2018, research commenced June 2018, planner made 2 
phone calls to the client providing updates and in December 2018 and a LoA 
for Mr Ps holdings re-requested from client.
oMarch 2019 - Statement of Wealth and Portfolio Report provided. No 
evidence of a client meeting on file. 
WEIF remained on 1825s hold list right up until the fund was suspended in June 
2019. See below which provides a summary of the work/conclusions the firm had 
undertaken on the LF Woodford fund
Mr Ps portfolio was monitored via its central investment committee with any 
recommended changes to the portfolios passed to the financial advisers to address 
at the clients annual review meeting. Throughout the period of the client complaint, 
there were no recommended changes put forward to recommend to clients and the 
portfolios remained broadly in line with the clients agreed risk profile.
Whilst it is accepted that there was limited contact with the client, this did not have a 
material impact on the actual performance of their portfolio, given the points 
highlighted above. Whilst the point is raised around active management this would 
generally have been around the style of investment funds chosen and not an 
indication of any activity other than their annual financial review (see attached client 
agreement).
The central investment team considered the performance of the WEIF throughout the 
period in question which included meeting with the Woodford Management team, 
however, based on the information that was available to 1825 and the discussions 
with the Woodford Team, the decision was made that on balance the fund should be 
retained within existing portfolios. 
Given the points above and the losses that would have been incurred in selling the 
fund within the existing portfolios the fund was retained. 
1825 recognised it had not provided a level of service that Mr P should have 
received, but it feels it is appropriate to retain some of the agreed fees for work that 
had been done.
Mr P also responded by reaffirming much of his previous comments, along with:
For the transfer of his DB pension Mr P remained of the view the loss can be 
quantified - the transfer value offer wouldve crystalised at exactly the guaranteed 
value and with proper management and favourable market conditions it wouldve 
increased in value, helping to put him in a position, where the monetary levels 
achieved, would offer more value than the known benefits from the DB scheme when 
taken. From the point of asking 1825 to undertake the pension transfer work to the 
point Mr P left 1825 he feels as the markets were favourable and due to the monies 
involved (guaranteed £357k, that would have crystallised if the work was completed 
by the timebound date) the value gain would have been significant. The real 
opportunity to achieve this in the period of the complaint was lost, due to 1825 never 
completing the work.
The initial cost, of the almost enforced move to another IFA, was slightly more than 
the £800 that has been awarded so he doesnt feel this figure is fair recompense.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having sone so, I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings.
Much of the information 1825 provided, as detailed above, is contrary to the information I 
have received from Mr P. For instance, 1825 states there was no review in February 2017. 
However, I have information from Mr P that a review took place in March 2017 when the 
pension works commenced. This isnt referred to by 1825. I have seen signed documents 
from March 2017 along with emails from Mr P to 1825 dated throughout March 2017 relating 
to the pension transfer. There is also an email from his specific adviser at 1825 stating 
letters of authority were being sent to him in relation to the pension transfer work. 
Therefore, in light of this I am not persuaded that a review didnt take place and it seems to 
me that 1825s client record keeping is not wholly accurate.
1825 has said that no changes to the portfolio were felt necessary between 2017 and 2019. 
However, I remain of the view that as an actively managed service it was for 1825 to do just 
that  actively manage the investments. And it seems unusual for any actively managed 
portfolio to remain static for a period of two years. The point of having an investment actively 
managed is for it to be changed according to the markets in order to make the most money. 
This didnt happen with Mr Ps portfolio and 1825 hasnt provided a sufficient reason why.
The same applies to the issue concerning the WEIF. In isolation disinvesting from the WEIF 
may not have been something a particular adviser would have recommended and thats not 
entirely unreasonable when you take account of the fact no one foresaw the fund would be 
suspended. However, what I would expect to see in this situation is the portfolio to be 
rebalanced to take account of the changing risk nature of the WEIF as it drew closer to 
suspension. But as I have said above, this didnt happen for reasons 1825 cannot properly 
explain.
Its also worth pointing out that the client agreement 1825 provided is the agreement Mr P 
made with the predecessor firm that 1825 took over from. This states the portfolio was to be 
actively managed and there is no mention of a central investment committee. If 1825 
changed its terms of business when it took over then a new client agreement should have 
been sent out to Mr P for his acceptance.
In relation to Mr Ps comments, while I appreciate he remains unhappy with the approach I 
have taken to the issue with the transfer of his DB pension what he has said is correct but 
the fact remains he has retained a valuable pension scheme the benefits of which must be 
taken account of when thinking about redress. 
I am also satisfied with the figure of £800 I initially suggested to be paid to Mr P for 1825 
failing to do any work on the DB transfer.
Therefore, in light of what I have stated above and my provisional findings I remain of the 
view that the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
In relation to the management of the investment portfolios:Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if 1825 had actively managed his 
portfolios in line with the terms of business and addressed the change in risk status of the 
WEIF.
I think Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given
Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should 1825 do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, 1825 must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown below and 
pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the actual 
value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
1825 should also pay:
Interest as set out below.
Repay the management fees charged on Mr Ps investments for the duration 
together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the 
date of settlement.
If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference 
between the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees with 
interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISA Portfolios Still exists and For half the Date the Date Mr P 8% simple per
(x2) liquid investment: FTSE WEIF was moved his year from final
UK Private recategorised portfolios decision to
Investors Income  representing away from settlement (if notTotal Return a definite 1825  16 settled within 28
Index: for the point the May 2019 of the business
other half: portfolios receiving the
average rate should have complainants
bonds been acceptance.
reviewed  1
April 2018
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr P 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
Its important for Mr P to note that this calculation against the benchmark may not show that 
he lost out in keeping his portfolios where they were during this period of time. But this 
method is the only way of replicating, as far as possible, what I think should have happened 
during said period.
In relation to the pension transfer work: 1825 must:
Pay Mr P £800 in recognition of the fact it delayed in progressing this matter with no 
justification why.
Whilst I initially stated in my first provisional decision that 1825 must also repay any 
fees Mr P was charged for the transfer work as it is now confirmed no fees were charged for this then this point falls away.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct 1825 Financial Planning And Advice 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman