DRN-3868466
The complaint
Mr M complains through his representative (CMC) that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his complaint under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 22 June 
2016. 
Mr M is technically the consumer for the purposes of this complaint as it was his credit card 
that was used to partially fund the purchase. Though as the transaction relates to a contract 
signed by him and Mrs M, I will refer to Mr and Mrs M throughout. They have used two 
CMCs to deal with their complaint, though for convenience Ill refer to both as CMC.
What happened
At a meeting with a representative of Keys Concierge Limited UK (K) on 22 June 2016, 
Mr and Mrs M signed a contract. This was for essentially a timeshare/ concierge service. It is 
alleged that they were put under extreme pressure to sign the contract. Mr M paid a deposit 
of £3,462.69 using his Barclaycard. Subsequently Mr and Mrs M paid a further £3,499 from 
their bank account. 
Mr and Mrs M later complained that K had misrepresented to them the alleged benefits of 
the contract, and made a claim to Barclays under the CCA.
Barclays responded that Mr and Mrs Ms allegations were of verbal misrepresentation and 
that there was no documentary evidence to verify that the misrepresentations were made.
The CMC responded that verbal misrepresentations were still valid evidence and that the 
contract didnt otherwise have any benefits and had they known that, Mr and Mrs M wouldnt 
have entered into it.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator was not persuaded there 
was any misrepresentation at the time of sale, so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont go into detail about the law that applies but essentially Mr and Mrs Ms claim is 
brought under s75 CCA. In summary this sets out that a borrower under a credit agreement 
has equal rights to pursue a claim against the lender as against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to claims under that provision. Here, Mr and Mrs M entered into a purchase 
agreement with K Concierge Limited UK. It operated under a licence provided by Signallia 
Marketing Distribution S.A  which was the company Mr and Mrs M paid for the product in 
question. But I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on whether there was the 
right arrangement in place as Im not persuaded the claim should succeed on its merits
A misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract to 
the other that:
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contract
CMC alleges that the following misrepresentations were made:
K repeatedly assured Mr and Mrs M that they could easily sell or relinquish their existing 
timeshare. They believe that isnt true because K or its associated companies also own 
the timeshare.
They were led to believe that by purchasing a membership they would have exclusive 
access to discounts on products and services including flights and accommodation.
They were told, wrongly, that K was ATOL and ABTA protected.
K falsely claimed to offer the services of a travel agent when it is not registered as one. 
Instead it is registered as a timeshare concierge comp.
the sale of Mr and Mrs Ms existing timeshare and the promise of ATOL/ABTA protection
Having not been present at the sale, it isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what 
Mr and Mrs M were or werent told by K. And, in the end, the part their testimony plays here 
comes down to how much it can be relied on. The circumstances surrounding these 
representations werent and havent been elaborated on by Mr and Mrs M or the CMC. And 
while I dont doubt the honesty of their recollections, without a more detailed account from 
them and/or supporting evidence on what was said, by who and when, Im not persuaded 
that there was a there was a factual and material misrepresentation by K. 
offer of exclusive and great discounts 
From the documents supplied, it appears that Mr and Mrs M bought an Explorer/Prime+ 
package. A certain number of credits were available for various services. But its difficult to 
tell from the poor quality of the documents exactly what benefits were available with that 
package. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were told that K offered exclusive or great discounts. Again the 
full circumstances in which this was allegedly said havent been elaborated on. The offer of a 
great discount amounts in my view to the expression of an honestly held opinion. In the 
absence of any accompanying and persuasive evidence to indicate that the supplier knew or 
ought reasonably to have known at the time of sale that such a representation wasnt true, I 
cant make a finding that Barclays didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their complaint under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
As for whether Ks representative said that there were exclusive discounts, the evidence that 
Mr and Mrs M rely on concerned their desire to book a cruise holiday when they could book 
it directly with the cruise operator at a cheaper rate. But I dont think it was a like for like 
comparison, as the cruise operators rate didnt include flights and hotel accommodation, 
unlike Ks offered rate. Ive seen no other evidence of their attempting to use the 
membership to obtain discounts. So whilst I accept it possibly might have been said I cant 
say that it was more likely than not to have been said or whether Mr and Mrs M relied on the exclusivity to sign up to the contract
offer of services of a travel agent
It isnt clear whether this allegation relates to what was said at the time of sale or afterwards. 
But in any event, its difficult to square with the purchase agreement and sales material Ive 
seen so far. Like the allegations above, neither Mr and Mrs M have explained who said what 
and when in any detail. And as they also havent explained why such a representation (if 
made) was important to their decision to enter into the contract, Im not currently persuaded 
it would amount to a material misrepresentation.
conclusion
I recognise that Mr and Mrs M  and their representative  have concerns about pressure by 
K at the time of sale. However, when looking at Mr Ms claim under Section 75 of the CCA, I 
can only consider whether there was a factual and material misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. And for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not currently persuaded that there was. 
And that means that I dont currently think that Barclays acted unreasonably or unfairly when 
it declined Mr Ms Section 75 claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman