DRN-2897289
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent him a loan he 
couldnt afford.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Everyday Loans lent Mr H £1500 in January 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded Everyday Loans did not make a fair lending decision. I agree 
with the investigators findings for these reasons:
oEveryday Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr H. It says it asked him about his income and expenditure costs. In addition, it 
carried out a credit check. It also used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to 
estimate his living costs. It used the information it gathered to assess the affordability 
of the loan for Mr H.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 18 monthly instalments of around £164 and Mr H 
says he asked for the loan for car repairs. When I look at Everyday Loans 
calculations, I can see that, on the surface of it, it had worked out that Mr H would 
have enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments, albeit this would be 
fairly tight leaving Mr H with disposable income of around £55 a month. But like the 
investigator, on balance I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision 
with what it had in front of it.
oI say this because when I look through the information Everyday Loans gathered, I 
can see that Mr H was having problems managing his finances leading up to the date 
that he applied for his loan with it.
oEveryday Loans would have been aware that Mr H had another short-term loan along 
with a bank overdraft. Everyday Loans had calculated that Mr H would need to pay a 
monthly amount of around £253 in servicing his existing debt. Adding the repayment 
for this loan to the existing monthly debt repayment would represent a significant 
proportion of Mr Hs income.
oEveryday Loans would also have seen that Mr H was struggling to repay his existing 
credit repayments. It had obtained bank statements from Mr H and for the month 
previous to his loan application, his statements showed it that he was struggling to 
manage his finances. He was heavily into and on occasions over his overdraft limit. 
Because of this, he also had 5 direct debit payments returned. I think Everyday 
Loans ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr H would be able to sustainably 
repay the additional repayment on this loan over the 18 month term when it could see 
that he was struggling to maintain his existing credit commitments let along repay 
more. And, so in these circumstances with what it had in front of it and from the 
information it gathered, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that it 
was not fair to lend to Mr H.
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Everyday Loans now needs to put things 
right.
  
Putting things right
While I think Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr H, I think it will be fair for him to repay 
the capital of £1500 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Everyday Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Mr H, if it exceeds the capital amount of £1500, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr H, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr H credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance outstanding, Everyday Loans should treat Mr H fairly and look to 
arrange a payment plan that is affordable for him. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Everyday Loans must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks 
it for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and I direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman