DRN-3232683
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc restricted access to and closed his business bank
account. Hes also unhappy they returned his money to source, and hed like his money
refunded.
What happened
Mr R opened a business bank account with Clydesdale on the 17 October 2018. In Mr Rs
application he explained that hed be providing IT consultancy services.
In early December 2018 Clydesdale restricted Mr Rs access to his business account  and
on the 5 December 2018 the bank advised Mr R theyd be closing his account in 7 days. 
Between the 3 December and the 12 December 2018 Clydesdale returned all of the funds
received into Mr Rs account to source. On the 21 December 2018 Mr Rs account was 
closed with a balance of £16,836.
Mr R complained to Clydesdale that they hadnt released his funds. Clydesdale upheld
Mr Rs complaint and apologised for the delay in releasing his £16,836  and they paid him
£100 compensation in recognition of this.
Mr R didnt accept Clydesdales response  he explained that the bank had returned over
£31,000 worth of his funds to source. Mr R explained that the payments hed received into
his account were for cryptocurrency trades hed completed via an online platform Ill call B.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In summary
he explained that evidence Clydesdale provided showed just over £10,000 had been
returned to source  and although Mr R advised the payments received into his account
were for cryptocurrency hed not seen enough evidence to show Mr R was entitled to the
funds.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion, in response he said:
His account wasnt blocked  he could still access online banking and receive 
payments into his account. 
He saw payments being returned before he received the notification his account was 
going to be closed on the 8 December 2018.
The statements he received from Clydesdale end on the 29 November 2018 as 
though he didnt receive any payments after this date.
In August 2019 the online platform B suffered a data loss which meant hes unable to 
provide evidence of the trades to our service.
As Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion it was referred to me for a decision. 
On reviewing Mr Rs complaint I reached a different conclusion to our investigator. I thought 
that Clydesdale had followed their terms and conditions in closing Mr Rs account without 
notice however theyd not acted fairly in returning his funds to source. Therefore I 
recommended they returned Mr Rs funds, plus 8% interest and paid him £200 
compensation.
Mr R accepted my recommendation but Clydesdale didnt. They responded with a number of 
points, in summary:
Theyd acted fairly in returning the payments to source as per their legal and 
regulatory obligations. 
They have no obligation to inform Mr R that his payments will be returned to source. 
They cant be sure that Mr R wasnt repaid the credits which were returned to source 
via another bank account. 
As Clydesdale didnt accept my Provisional Decision Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account restriction and closure
Although I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy that restrictions were placed on his account
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply
with various laws and regulations. Mr R agreed to this term as a customer and its a
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Clydesdale were acting in line with their legal and
regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when
they reviewed Mr Rs account. So I dont think Clydesdale did anything wrong when it initially
blocked Mr Rs account and didnt allow him access to his funds.
Ive also considered the banks actions in closing Mr Rs account by providing 7 days notice.
Clydesdale are entitled to close any account by providing 60 days notice  however to close
an account with less than this notice period they need to follow the terms and conditions
listed in 4.9 Termination and Suspension.
Having reviewed this section of Mr Rs business account Im satisfied the bank has met this
criteria, and acted within the terms of the account.
I realise this will disappoint Mr R but I dont think the bank acted unfairly here.
Return of funds to source
Clydesdale initially provided details to our service that theyd only returned just over £10,000
to source. Mr Rs maintained throughout his complaint that theyd actually returned just over
£31,000. Clydesdale have since provided full documentation to show the credits returned
during December 2018. This evidence shows that rather than just over £10,000 being
returned, the bank returned £31,034.74 to source.
Its only fair for a bank to return funds to source when theyre completely satisfied a
customer isnt entitled to their funds. As Ive explained above I think Clydesdale acted fairly
in restricting Mr Rs access to his account, and closing his account with only 7 days notice.
However, I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mr R's account that refer to returningfunds to source and they state:
(3.3.7) if we are informed by the payer or another bank that a sum of money has
been paid into your bank by mistake, we can take that sum of money from your account
without your express consent.
Clydesdale have been asked for the specific reasons on why they returned the funds in
Mr Rs account to source. The bank hasnt advised that they received contact from any of
the sending banks raising concerns about the funds which entered Mr Rs account  and
theyve not provided any other explanation for why they returned his funds to source.
Clydesdale also didnt ask Mr R for proof of entitlement to the funds. Our service has
however since asked Mr R for proof of entitlement to the funds. And Mr R has provided a
substantial amount of email correspondence from B regarding cryptocurrency trades hes
arranged during December 2018 which match a significant number of the transactions
Clydesdale returned to source. These emails show trades being arranged, and then being
marked as paid by the buyer. Mr R has advised that the full records of his trades arent
available because of Bs data loss in August 2019  Ive no reason to think this isnt the
case. And on balance Im satisfied the evidence Mr Rs supplied is sufficient to demonstrate
he is entitled to the funds deposited into his account. I say this because as well as the
evidence Mr Rs supplied if any of the transactions were carried out without the senders
authorisation Id expect Clydesdale to have received reports from the sending banks  which
I understand isnt the case.
Ive also considered whether Mr R received the funds through a different source  and hes
provided evidence of conversations hes had, via B, with some cryptocurrency buyers
demonstrating that after the payments were returned they paid Mr R through different means
 to his bank account with a bank Ill call S. I think this further evidences the legitimate
nature of Mr Rs transactions  and his entitlement to the funds. Firstly Id be very surprised
if customers who purchased cryptocurrency from Mr R would be prepared to resend funds to
Mr R via a different bank account  if they were unhappy with their trades. The fact that Mr R
has also provided a statement from his bank account with S, which doesnt show any other
transactions which match the sender and value of those which entered his Clydesdale bank
account, leads me to conclude that its unlikely on balance that Mr R has received other
returned payments via different means.
Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above I'm not satisfied that I've seen any evidence to
justify the applying of this term.
In total of the £31,034.74 returned to source, Mr Rs provided evidence he received £602.43
into his bank account with S. Ive taken this into account when awarding my redress, so in
total I think Clydesdale should refund Mr R £30,432.31.
I also think as Mr Rs been deprived of these funds since December 2018 Clydesdale should
pay Mr R 8% interest per annum from the date the funds were returned to the date they are
refunded.
Ive considered the impact of Clydesdale actions on Mr R  and I think their actions did
cause him a small amount of inconvenience and distress  this includes the distress he likely
experienced because of the anxiety in not obtaining his funds. For this reason I think
Clydesdale should pay him an additional £200.
Response to my Provisional Decision:
Clydesdale responded to my provisional decision with a number of points. Firstly:Theyd acted fairly in returning the payments to source as per their legal and 
regulatory obligations. 
They have no obligation to inform Mr R that his payments will be returned to source.
In my provisional decision I explained that Id not seen any evidence from Clydesdale to 
support their decision to return Mr Rs funds to source. Clydesdale have since submitted 
new evidence which they argue shows the bank complied with their legal and regulatory 
obligations when not accepting Mr Rs funds. Ive reviewed the new evidence, and I agree it 
shows the bank acted fairly when making the decision to not accept Mr Rs new credits and 
return them to source. 
However Ive moved on to consider whether the bank notified Mr R that they wouldnt accept 
any further payments into his account. Clydesdale first notified Mr R about his account 
closure on the 5 December 2018. In the letter theres no mention that the account couldn't 
receive further payments - the letter states the 'bank will be exercising it's right ... to close 
your account after seven days from the date of this letter'. And 'if there's a credit balance in 
your account, we can send the funds to an account nominated by you'. 
 
Clydesdale have argued that the bank didnt need to inform Mr R that his funds wouldnt be 
credited and they couldnt do so because of their legal and regulatory obligations. Ive 
considered Clydesdales argument but Id have expected the bank to have notified Mr R in a 
timely manner that his account couldn't receive any further credits. Im satisfied if this 
happened Mr R could have made arrangements for the funds to be paid into a different 
account - as he did after some payments were returned to source. And he wouldn't be in the 
position he is now - having not received payment for cryptocurrency he's provided evidence 
that he sold. 
They cant be sure that Mr R wasnt repaid the credits which were returned to source 
via another bank account. 
I've moved on to consider Clydesdales argument about Mr R receiving the funds twice. And 
I'm in agreement with Clydesdale here that Mr R shouldn't be credited twice for the same 
payment - however I need to make my judgement on balance based on the evidence 
available to me. I'm satisfied that on balance Mr R hasn't received payment for the funds 
which didn't credit his account - and were returned by Clydesdale. I say this because Mr Rs 
provided evidence of receiving £602.43 through another account. And looking at the 
statement from the third party bank there's no evidence of any other resent payments. I also 
need to think about whether it's reasonable to expect Mr R to contact every individual who 
made payments to his Clydesdale account, if it was possible for him to do this and whether 
It's likely they'd agree to make the payment again. Based on this, it wouldn't be fair for me to 
conclude Mr R's already received the funds in dispute. 
 
Overall, for the reasons I've outlined in my provisional decision, the responsibilities I think 
Clydesdale had to notify Mr R any payments wouldn't credit his account and the lack of 
evidence showing Mr R has been resent the disputed funds I haven't changed the outcome I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Ive considered the impact of Clydesdale actions on Mr R  and I think their actions did
cause him a small amount of inconvenience and distress  this includes the distress he likely
experienced because of the anxiety in not obtaining his funds. For this reason I think
Clydesdale should pay him an additional £200.  My final decision
Pay Mr R £30,432.31 plus 8% interest from the date the funds were returned to
source to the date they are repaid.
Pay Mr R £200 because of the distress caused to him in returning his funds to
source.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman