DRN-2865780
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount of additional premium he had to pay when he told U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Direct Line that he had changed his car. 
What happened
Mr D took out a motor insurance policy with UKI, the policy initially cost £1650.88 a year. In 
October 2020, Mr M contacted UKI to change the insured car. Due to the change, UKI said 
they were going to charge Mr D an additional £592.48 in premium for making the changes.
Mr D wasnt happy with this  he said that the car specification was similar to the one that 
hed insured previously and didnt feel that the amount it increased the premium by was a 
fair reflection.
UKI responded to Mr Ds complaint to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said 
that the additional premium it had charged was correct and this had been checked with its 
underwriters. 
Mr D remained unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd reviewed information sent by UKI and they 
didnt think it had acted unfairly when it increased the premium.
Mr D disagreed, he said that it cant be right to charge an extra 40% premium for a car 
change  and he felt that the additional premium might be as a result of UKI acknowledging 
that he held a licence from a different country.
Because Mr D disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D said that the car hed recently asked to insure was similar to the one he insured 
previously. Given the increase in Mr Ds premium, I can understand why hes unhappy. 
It's normal for insurers to consider that different cars - even when similar - pose a different 
risk for which they may charge a different premium. So, by UKI increasing Mr Ds premium 
doesn't in isolation mean it has treated him unfairly.
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or 
how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at UKIs 
information about Mr Ds premiums both before and after he changed car. And I've looked to 
see how those have changed. 
The information it has used to price Mr Ds policy is commercially sensitive so I can't share 
that with him. But I can see the premiums it charged took into account the change in car, 
which resulted in the extra premium. find that unfair, it's not While Mr D might for me to tell 
UKI how it should rate the risks of certain cars. Nor can I tell it to change the way it considers 
those risks. 
But from looking at the information it has provided, I think UKI has treated Mr D in the same 
way that it would other customers in similar circumstances. 
Mr D has told us that hes looked at other insurers to cover the same vehicle, and they were 
charging less in premiums to insure the same car. And hes said that he thinks the change is 
likely to be because he holds a driving license from a different country.
As Ive said, different insurers will each make their own assessment of the risks theyre 
asked to cover. The fact that one insurer might rate a risk as being higher than another 
doesn't automatically mean that the insurer who charges a higher premium as a result has 
acted unfairly. So this doesnt lead me to find that UKI did anything wrong, or didnt treat Mr 
D in the same way it would its other customers. It follows that, as Im satisfied that UKI 
increased Mr Ds premium in line with its internal guidance and I think its treated him fairly.
In relation to the driving licence, UKI has also sent me information to show that it was aware 
of this information prior to Mr D changing his car  and it didnt increase his premium then.  
Its also sent information from its internal systems which shows the change in license hasnt 
had an impact on the premium. So again, I dont think UKI has treated Mr D unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman