DRN-3253338
Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has held her liable for several transactions she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Mrs S has an account with Lloyds. On 7 November 2020, three payments were made from 
that account. The total value of those transactions was around £1,900. Mrs S says she didnt 
consent to these payments.
She said that the funds were used to pay for a plumber, but she pointed out that shes a 
council tenant and so wouldnt have needed to pay for repairs to her home. It therefore cant 
have been her that authorised these payments. Mrs S has argued that the payments were 
clearly out of character when considered alongside the way she normally used the account. 
She thinks Lloyds shouldve recognised that something was amiss and intervened to protect 
her from what appeared to be a fraud.
Its not clear how these payments came to be made, but Mrs S did tell us that she received a 
message on her online banking app saying that her device had been deregistered. This may 
have been a phishing attempt to enable a fraudster to illicitly obtain security credentials for 
her account and therefore take control of it and authorise payments. She said that Lloyds did 
send her text messages regarding the account activity but that these were only received by 
her device many hours later. If theyd been received at the appropriate time, she says that 
shed have acted immediately. 
She complained to Lloyds and asked that it pay her a refund.  Lloyds didnt agree to do so. It 
noted that the payments had been made using a device that belonged to Mrs S and had 
been carried out via the IP address shed normally use when making payments on the app. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and so she referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator said that Lloyds had provided 
evidence showing that the device which authorised these payments was connected to her 
phone number and each payment was authenticated using fingerprint recognition. Shed told 
us that she didnt share her account details or her device with anyone and so there wasnt a 
clear explanation as to how a third-party couldve taken control of her account in the way that 
has been suggested.
He recognised that Mrs S may have been sent a text message as part of a phishing attempt 
 but Mrs S said that, when she followed the link, she didnt enter any information regarding 
herself or the account. 
Mrs S had re-registered her online banking facility on the day the fraudulent payments were 
made but, in order to do so, she had to respond to a text message that prompted her to 
enter the memorable information associated with her account. Given that Mrs S had said 
that she didnt share any personal details or account information with anyone, it wasnt clear 
how this couldve enabled a fraudster to take control of her account either.
Mrs S disagreed with the Investigators view and reasserted that she hadnt been the person 
who had authorised the transactions. Because Mrs S disagreed with the Investigators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to be clear from the outset that I cannot know with complete certainty how the 
disputed payments were made. In such circumstances, I must review the evidence that is 
available to me and reach a finding on the balance of probabilities  i.e. does the available 
evidence suggest its more likely than not that these transactions were authorised?
Ive considered that point carefully and, whilst I know it will be hugely disappointing for Mrs 
S, Im satisfied that the weight of the evidence here suggests that these payments were 
authorised.
They were made using an online banking app that was connected with her genuine phone 
number. Whoever was responsible for giving the payment instruction must have therefore 
had access to her phone. Mrs S has said that nobody had access to her phone at the time 
these payments were made.
Technical evidence provided by Lloyds shows that the authentication requirements were 
fingerprint recognition. That means the payments required the person giving the instruction 
to have their fingerprint scanned and compared against one recorded on her account. Shes 
told us that she didnt give anyone else permission to use her device or unlock the app for a 
third party, but its difficult to fathom how these payments couldve been made without her 
involvement.
Mrs S has said that she was sent a message that might have been a phishing attempt. She 
says she followed a link which redirected her to the Lloyds banking app but that she didnt 
enter any personal information or information relating to her account  so its difficult to see 
how her response to that message couldve been a point of compromise for the security of 
her account. I can also see that an online banking facility was set up and associated with her 
phone on the day of the disputed transactions, but that in order for that link to be created, 
she needed to respond to a text message sent to her phone number and confirm the 
memorable information that was associated with her account. From what shes told us, no 
third-party wouldve been able to access this information.
Its also noteworthy that there were no further attempts to make payments from her account. 
If access to the account had fallen into the hands of an opportunistic third-party fraudster, Id 
have expected them to take full advantage and withdraw as much money from the account 
as possible.
Overall, Im persuaded that the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mrs S 
consented to these payments and so I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline to refund 
the payments to her. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman