DRN-3599624
The complaint
Mr N is dissatisfied that he didnt receive a replacement mobile phone from Assurant 
General Insurance Limited (Assurant), following a claim under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr N contacted Assurant as he had damaged his phone. Assurant told Mr N to send in his 
phone for a repair. The phone was repaired and returned to Mr Ns home address, via a 
third-party courier. Mr N received an email to say that the phone would be delivered on 
Monday 18 October 2021. So, when Mr N said he hadnt received the phone, he contacted 
Assurant on 22 October 2021. 
Assurant told Mr N that the phone had been delivered to the correct address on 17 October 
2021. And the courier had taken a photo of the phone being accepted at the delivery 
address. Mr N explained that he did not receive the phone and raised a complaint. 
Assurant carried out investigations about the disputed delivery of the phone and in its final 
response, said that a replacement phone would not be sent to Mr N, as it had evidence that 
the phone had been correctly delivered to the address that Mr N provided, for delivery. 
Mr N was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that she 
had reviewed the photographs of the delivery and these confirmed that the address that the 
phone was delivered to was correct. She explained that Assurants responsibility was to 
make sure the phone was delivered in a timely manner, safely to the correct address. She 
concluded that from the evidence, she believed that this had taken place. So, there was 
nothing further she could reasonably ask Assurant to do.
Assurant accepted the view, Mr N did not. He said that he did not receive the phone. He 
questioned why the courier would have made a delivery on a Sunday. He accepted that he 
received an email notifying him of the change of delivery day, but that he had the right not to 
look at his emails on a Sunday. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr N, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have carefully considered both parties comments and evidence they have presented. I 
have reviewed the courier service evidence of delivery as well as the emails sent. The main 
issue of this complaint I think relates to the delivery of the phone.
Having reviewed what both parties have said, there is no issue that the address that the 
phone was delivered to was correct. There is also no issue that the repair of the phone was 
completed in a timely manner. 
Mr N said that he did not receive the phone as he was out. He does though, accept that he 
received an email notifying him that the original delivery date (18 October 2021) would be 
changed to Sunday 17 October 2021. 
I understand that Mr N was frustrated as the delivery took place on a Sunday. But, Assurant 
are not responsible for organising the third-party couriers delivery slots and it would be 
unreasonable for me to hold it responsible for this. The couriers operate seven days a week 
and as Mr N confirmed that he received an email notifying him of the change of delivery 
date, then Im satisfied that he was given prior notice of the intended delivery. 
Assurant said that on the day of delivery Mr N wouldve also been notified by text and he 
wouldve been given a one-hour delivery slot (which Mr N accepts he received). He wouldve 
had the opportunity to change the date or time of delivery if he was unable to be in to receive 
it. But as he didnt, Assurant said the parcel was delivered. 
Assurant also provided a photograph of the delivery taking place. The photo, which I have 
seen, shows an individual receiving the parcel, with the front door open. Finally, it also 
provided GPS data which showed the location of the courier when he parked to make the 
delivery.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im persuaded that Assurant fulfilled its obligations under 
the policy to send a replacement or repaired device in settlement of a claim to the correct 
address, as provided by Mr N. And I think that based on this, Assurant was fair not to agree 
to send a replacement phone.
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr N wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
Assurant to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman