DRN-3585288
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) wasnt clear that they 
needed to pay a booking fee to secure a preferential interest rate product. They ask that it 
applies the product they wanted to their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G contacted first direct in March 2022 about taking out a new interest rate 
product. They accept that first direct told them theyd have to call again to pay a booking fee, 
but say this was part of a mass of information and questions. They say the mortgage offer 
and information about how to take out the product didnt say they needed to pay the fee to 
secure the interest rate. 
The product was withdrawn and Mr and Mrs G had to take out a product with a higher 
interest rate. They ask that first direct applies the product they wanted.
Our investigator said first direct made it clear that Mr and Mrs G needed to pay the booking 
fee within five working days or risk missing out on the rate they wanted. Mr and Mrs G didnt 
agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most mortgage lenders offer preferential interest rate products to customers. Lenders 
change the range of products they offer from time to time, and a lender can withdraw a 
product at any time. 
Mr G discussed products with first direct on 8 March 2022, on a non-advised basis. first 
direct provided a recording of this call. Mr G had chosen a product before the call. The call 
handler told Mr G the booking fee was non-refundable once paid and first direct had to 
ensure Mr and Mrs G had read the documents before taking payment. She said: 
The rate would be held for five working days to give them chance to review the 
documents
One of them needed to call within five working days to make the payment
If for any reason they didnt call within five working days, they might miss out on the rate 
and cause delays on the application
I think this information  that the booking fee needed to be paid within five working days  
was stated clearly. Mr G confirmed he understood it. And at the end of the call Mr G 
confirmed that everything was clear. first direct sent the mortgage rate switching offer by 
email on the same day. This set out the terms of the product, including the booking fee. 
Mr and Mrs G signed the documents but didnt pay the booking fee. On 17 March 2022 first 
direct sent them a message saying the rate was no longer available. Mr and Mrs G had to 
choose a new product with a higher rate.
Mr and Mrs G say the information provided by first direct fails the treating customers fairly 
test because it wasnt clear enough. Mr G says the next steps section of the mortgage offer 
didnt say they have to pay the booking fee. He says this information is only on the last page. 
He says the documents came with a message saying once theyd signed the documents 
thats it, all done. He says this is false and misleading as it didnt say they needed to pay 
the fee. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We take relevant law, regulation and good 
industry practice into account to reach a decision about whats fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of a complaint. At the heart of this complaint is whether first direct 
gave Mr and Mrs G clear information about needing to pay the booking fee. I think it did.
I think the information provided by first direct was clear, on the call and in the documents 
emailed to them. The email it sent to them said they needed to carefully review the 
information. I think that would include reading the mortgage rate switching offer, which sets 
out the terms that Mr and Mrs G were agreeing to. This includes:
The section of the mortgage rate switching offer headed interest rate and other costs 
sets out the booking fee, and says this is non-refundable and is payable to first direct 
upon acceptance of this mortgage rate switching offer. 
The final page of the mortgage rate switching offer is headed (in capitals) URGENT  
ACTION REQUIRED. This said the funds were reserved at the rate quoted in the offer 
document for a maximum of five working days. It provided a number to call to pay the 
booking fee to secure the rate. It said the rate could be withdrawn at any time without 
notice.
Even if Mr G had (as he says) forgotten what the mortgage adviser said during the call, the 
need to pay the booking fee was clearly set out twice in the offer document. I dont think first 
direct needed to repeat this in other parts of the mortgage offer and related emails, or that 
failing to do so was misleading.
I think first direct made Mr and Mrs G aware it could withdraw the product at any time. It told 
them they needed to review the documents and that they had to pay the booking fee within 
five working days to secure the rate they wanted. Im sorry that Mr and Mrs G missed out on 
the product they wanted, but I dont think this was due to an error by first direct or that it 
treated them unfairly.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require first direct to apply the 
lower interest rate product to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman