DRN-3273127
The complaint
Ms T complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) delayed the transfer of her Stocks and Shares ISA to 
them from Bank A, causing her to lose out financially.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
An issue with the paperwork signed in branch on 7 March 2020, meant TSB needed 
to send a further copy out for Ms T to re-sign and return. This meant the transfer 
wasnt processed until 13 March 2020.
It isnt in dispute TSB caused this delay. Theyve apologised to Ms T, paying her £25 
compensation however they dont feel theyre responsible for the drop in value of her 
Stocks and Shares ISA. I disagree.
Its important to say I understand Stocks and Shares ISAs can fluctuate in value 
daily. Its a risk taken by a customer that their investment could go down as well as 
increase. Had Ms Ts ISA simply lost value during the necessary transfer process it 
wouldnt be for TSB to cover that loss.
I also note TSB point to their ISA promise that a Stocks and Shares ISA transferred 
to them will take no more than 30 days to complete. But that doesnt allow TSB carte 
blanche to act so long as the transfer completes within that time.
Ms Ts transfer did complete within 30 days, but as a result of a clear error caused by 
TSB, it took longer than it needed to have taken. And because Ms T lost out 
financially due to the additional time taken through no fault of her own, I dont think 
its fair or reasonable that she is disadvantaged.
Ms Ts Stocks and Shares ISA value was calculated by Bank A four days after TSB 
initiated the transfer. Bank A have confirmed had the value been calculated on        
11 March 2020 (four days after TSB shouldve initiated the transfer) her ISA wouldve 
been worth an additional £765.29.
On this basis, it follows I find TSB should put Ms T back into the position she 
wouldve been in had her transfer progressed without the error occurring.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve Ms Ts complaint TSB Bank plc should:
pay her £765.29,
and apply interest of 1.05% on the above amount. This should be from 7 March 2020 
until the end of the two-year fixed term providing the terms of the Fixed Rate Cash 
ISA werent broken early.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman