DRN-4503481
The complaint
Miss N complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss N applied for a credit card with Vanquis in June 2018. She was accepted and given a 
credit limit of £500 which was increased in October 2018 to £1,000. In January 2020 it was 
increased to £1,750.
In July 2023 Miss N complained to Vanquis. She said Vanquis shouldnt have provided her 
with the credit. She said it didnt take account of her financial situation at the time and that it 
should have refused her credit. She said Vanquis didnt check properly that it was affordable 
for her and that she struggled with debt as a result.
 
Vanquis didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint, so she brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint. She didnt have sufficient evidence to 
support a finding that Vanquis had done anything wrong in its lending decisions and that 
Miss N had lost out as a result. 
Miss N disagreed. Our investigator again invited Miss N to supply further evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time, but Miss N declined to do so.
As Miss N did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ns complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss N could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Miss Ns borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Vanquis has provided evidence that it completed a credit check when Miss N applied for her 
credit card. It showed no recent adverse information, there were no outstanding County 
Court Judgments (CCJs) or other evidence of recent non-payment of credit. It asked Miss N 
her income and she had only £1,000 in other credit at the time. Sustainable repayments, if 
Miss N used the whole of the credit limit at once, would have been around £25 a month. On 
the basis of this information, I think Vanquis carried out proportionate checks and acted 
reasonably on the information it obtained. 
Vanquis increased Miss Ns credit limit by £500 about four months later. Vanquiss checks at 
the time showed that Miss Ns financial circumstances were similar to those four months 
earlier. A historic default from almost five years earlier was noted. There were no CCJs and 
Miss N wasnt using short term lending. She hadnt missed any payments and she wasnt 
using her credit card to withdraw cash. Although Miss Ns external borrowing had increased 
by around £200 this was to be expected in light of the provision of the credit card with a 
credit limit of £500 some four months earlier. Again, I think Vanquis carried out proportionate 
checks and acted reasonably on the information it obtained.
The final increase came in January 2020, when Miss Ns limit was increased by £750 to 
£1750. At this point Miss Ns financial circumstances seemed to be less secure. She had 
considerably greater credit commitments, owing £9,750 to creditors. This was more than 
Miss Ns declared annual income. Miss N was using a high proportion of the credit available 
to her. 
Vanquis asked Miss N about her income and expenditure. She confirmed that her income 
was around £950 a month and that her total monthly expenditure was around £745. It was 
noted that Miss Ns partner covered their housing costs.
 
Given the change in circumstances I think Vanquis ought to have completed further checks 
of Miss Ns income and expenditure. But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold 
Miss Ns complaint. I need to understand what Vanquis might have seen if it had completed 
further checks. 
I dont know what checks Vanquis would have chosen to do if it had done more checks; 
there is no prescriptive list of checks a business must do. In the absence of any further 
information, I think its reasonable to look sources of information about Miss Ns 
circumstances at the time, such as copies of her bank statements. Sight of her bank 
statements would have helped me understand if Miss N was struggling to meet repayments 
(rather than missing them) and whether she had enough disposable income once all her 
essential expenditure was paid to be able to afford the extra credit Vanquis offered.
Miss N didnt think we needed to see her bank statements and she declined to provide them 
on several occasions, which is entirely her right. However, as Ive already explained, it isnt 
enough for me just to say Vanquis might have done something wrong. I need to understand 
what should have happened if Vanquis had done everything right. If Miss N had provided 
evidence of what Vanquis might have seen if it had done all the checks I think were likely 
necessary and it showed she struggled in the way she has said she did, I may have 
considered that Miss N suffered a loss as a result of Vanquis not acting fairly. Unfortunately, 
as Miss N has declined to provide this evidence I cannot fairly say that this was the case.
 
So, on the information available to me I cant fairly say that Miss N lost out as a result of 
anything Vanquis did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Ns complaint. It follows that 
Vanquis Bank Limited does not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman