DRN-3795518
The complaint
Mr B complaints Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
Mr B was also unhappy with the lack of help he was given when he reached out to Drafty in 
April 2020 to ask for a payment arrangement. 
What happened
Mr B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in August 2018. Mr B was given a
facility with a £1,000 credit limit. Drafty increased Mr Bs credit limit on four occasions taking 
his credit limit to £2,520 by October 2019. Drafty has confirmed that by August 2022, an 
outstanding balance remained due.
Mr B was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr B was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter (September 2021) it explained the information it gathered 
from Mr B before it approved the facility, which showed hed be able to afford it and then 
service the facility. So, it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
adjudicators looked at it. In her latest assessment she partly upheld it. She thought the 
checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed 
Drafty Mr B was likely to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the 
hypothetical payment schedule in Mr Bs credit agreement. This was calculated on the full 
£1,000 being drawn down at the outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt 
think it was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr B with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Bs ongoing use of the facility. The adjudicator thought, 
by the time of the third credit limit increase  (taking the limit to £2,300) in July 2019 Drafty 
ought to have done more to ensure that the new limit (and the whole facility) remained 
affordable for him. 
The adjudicator said, that had Drafty carried out further checks at the time of the limit 
increase, which she thought was reasonable, it wouldve likely discovered that he had 
mortgage arrears, and was already committed to spending £1,800 of his £2,400 salary 
covering his living costs expect for his energy bills. In addition, each month Mr B would be 
making regular cash withdrawals and unfortunately, at this time Mr B was also in and out of 
hospital. 
Overall, the adjudicator thought there were signs of financial difficulties, so not only should 
Drafty not approved the credit limit increase, Drafty shouldve stepped in and shouldve 
frozen the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr B from July 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% simple. She 
also said any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from the uphold date should 
be removed from his credit file. 
The adjudicator also said that Mr B reached out to Drafty for help in April 2020, and she 
could see he sent a number of emails that went unanswered. Due to the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B was put through by not engaging with him, the adjudicator 
recommended a payment be made to Mr B of £200. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (but it confirmed the credit limit was increased from 
28 June 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees and charges applied to any new 
drawdowns from that date. 
At the time the offer was made, Drafty explained this would lead to a new reduced 
outstanding balance of £2,305.40 and it also agreed to remove any adverse information from 
Mr Bs credit file. But it also said, that should Mr B need a repayment plan to pay down the 
outstanding balance, then details of that would be recorded with the credit reference agency. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
28 June 2019. It said this was because: 
 we take a different view on the way you have requested the calculations to be 
done.
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money was 
appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after 28th June 2019 
were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, it also 
implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to 
grant...
Drafty also agreed to pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that was 
caused. 
Draftys offer was put to Mr B and he didnt accept it. As no agreement has been reached, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Mr B was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr B would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Bs repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  28 June 2019. And while, Mr B rejected the settlement 
offer by Drafty, he didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought to be 
upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
28 June 2019  when Mr Bs credit limit was increased. However, what is in dispute, and 
therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair 
and reasonable considering the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. 
In addition, Drafty has also accepted that it ought to pay  directly to Mr B £200 due to the 
distress and inconvenient caused by it after it failed to engage with him when he asked for a 
repayment plan in April 2020. I therefore, also wont make any further finding about this 
because it seems both parties agree this payment is fair and reasonable. 
The adjudicator and Drafty (appears to) have agreed, that further checks ought to have been 
carried out before the third credit limit increase, and had further checks been carried out 
Drafty ought to have realised that the proposed credit limit and the current balance were 
unsustainable  and therefore Mr B ought to have been offered some assistance. So, there 
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became unsustainable for 
Mr B.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr B while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 28 June 2019 needs to be refunded. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in June 2019. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. But 
seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken  
as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right 
sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing 
this sometime after the event. As Ive said above, and as the adjudicator pointed out, I dont think at the third credit limit 
increase it was unreasonable for Drafty to have made further checks to ensure the new limit 
was affordable for him. And had further checks been carried out not only would Drafty have 
realised the new credit limit wasnt affordable for Mr B but the entire balance he held at the 
time was unsustainable for him. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Bs balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, when further 
checks wouldve indicated he was already struggling, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Mr B to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair 
and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
28 June 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been update  28 June 2019, it therefore follows that it 
isnt just the new drawdowns that Mr B couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what 
he already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further 
drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr B. 
Putting things right
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Re-work Mr Bs credit facility balance so that any additional interest, fees and 
charges applied from 28 June 2019 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should backdate this to June 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.*
Drafty should also pay Mr B directly, £200 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that has been caused. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Given what Drafty has previously told the Financial Ombudsman Service, it is likely, that 
even after carrying out the above redress an outstanding balance will remain due. Mr B has 
given the Financial Ombudsman some details of his health and the types of medication he is 
needing to take. I do hope that Mr Bs health is improving. But given this, Id remind Drafty of 
its regulatory obligation to treat him fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman