DRN-3751090
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the mortgage he has with Santander UK Plc. He is unhappy that 
when his interest rate product was due to end in late 2021 Santander didnt offer him a new 
rate on which he could afford the monthly payments. Following that, and the involvement of 
this service, hes told us that despite numerous calls and requests, Santander was unwilling 
to engage about the issue and agree a reasonable interim interest rate. In addition, Mr P has 
raised concerns about the threatening letters he has received, and the volume of contact 
about his mortgage from Santander.
What happened
In November 2021 the interest rate product attached to Mr Ps mortgage was due to expire. 
Mr P contacted Santander some months earlier than the expiry date to discuss replacing the 
interest rate product. At that time, his mortgage was in arrears, so the options for interest 
rate products he was given involved a significantly higher interest rate than he was then 
currently paying. Mr P explained why he wasnt able to afford a higher rate. The arrears on 
the mortgage were capitalised and Santander offered him an assisted fixed interest rate that 
it had available for vulnerable customers. However, Mr P said this was still unaffordable. 
When the interest rate product ended, the monthly payments increased. However, Mr P 
maintained the payment level he had been making under the previous product. This meant 
that the mortgage went into arrears again. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Following this happening, Santander contacted 
Mr P about the arrears on the account on several occasions, as it was required to do by the 
regulator to ensure that a borrow is kept up to date with the status of a mortgage that is in 
arrears. Mr P also contacted Santander on numerous occasions about the situation, 
repeating his concerns about the interest rate attached to his mortgage and raising 
complaints about the letters sent to him.
Santander issued several complaint responses relating to Mr Ps concerns about the events 
that had happened after it had closed its investigation into the complaint about the interest 
rate product. It also confirmed that as it had responded to that complaint, and the complaint 
was then being considered by us, it wouldnt be commenting further on the matter, despite 
initially indicating it would. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with the responses he received and referred his old and new complaint 
points to this service on 24 February 2022.
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a decision addressing Mr Ps original complaint 
on 3 May 22. This decision covered the service he had received from Santander; that he felt 
it hadnt treated him fairly following the mortgage going into arrears and the interest rate 
products, including the assist rate offered. The complaint wasnt upheld. 
One of our investigators looked at the various issues that Mr P had mentioned in his second 
complaint referral to us. She explained that we would not be reconsidering any of the issues 
my ombudsman colleague considered. However, she would consider the complaints about 
the amount and nature of the contact Santander had made with Mr P after it had responded 
to his previous complaint, i.e. from November 2021. Mr P accepted this opinion.
The investigator went on to consider the service and communication from November 2021. 
She concluded that since November 2021 Santander hadnt had an interest rate product 
comparable to the previous one Mr P had previously had. As such, she was satisfied that it 
couldnt have offered Mr P what hed wanted, and the assisted rate offered was the lowest 
rate that continued to be available to him. She explained that Santander didnt need to offer 
a rate that wasnt within its product range and she didnt think Santander had treated Mr P 
unfairly. 
In relation to the contact Santander had made with Mr P, the investigator explained that 
Santander was required to keep Mr P up to date with the status of his mortgage when it was 
in arrears and explain the potential implications of that status. The letters sent fell into this 
category and she wasnt persuaded there had been excessive contact after November 2021, 
especially in light of Mr P confirming that most of the contact he had referred to had 
happened before that. She was also satisfied that the dissatisfaction Mr P felt about 
Santander telling him it would look into issues he had raised and then not doing so, was due 
to his new complaint issues being combined with the previous complaint issues.  The 
investigator confirmed that it was not unreasonable for Santander to have declined to 
re-examine the complaint it had already addressed, and which was with this service at the 
time.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators conclusions. He said that my ombudsman 
colleagues decision was wrong and that the investigator was wrong not to be considering 
that complaint. Mr P reiterated his points about the concessionary rate not being good 
enough, as his personal situation meant that he couldnt afford the monthly payments 
involved. Mr P asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
Mr P subsequently provided further comment on his original complaint and my ombudsman 
colleagues conclusions about it. Mr P also added a new complaint point  that it was illegal 
for a finance company to lend monies to a party (whether on a fixed rate or not) if that 
person could not pass the affordability criteria. He said that the letters he received following 
the previous complaint being responded to by Santander and referred to this service, were 
not ordinary run of the mill letters and despite his situation and requests, no-one from 
Santander had called him to discuss the situation or agree a reasonable interim interest rate. 
I issued a decision on 6 October 2022 confirming that, despite Mr P not agreeing with my 
colleagues final decision on his earlier complaint, we would not be reconsidering it. Mr P 
wasnt happy with my decision and again expressed his belief that my colleagues decision 
was wrong and set out his views of the Financial Ombudsman Service in general.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has remained unhappy with the interest rate product attached to his mortgage and has 
continued to express his dissatisfaction with the outcome of his previous complaint and the 
fact that he was on an interest rate he couldnt afford because of his circumstances. 
Santander explained to Mr P that it wouldnt be reconsidering the previous complaint, 
especially in light of the fact that Mr P had asked us to review the situation. That was not an 
unreasonable stance. It is unfortunate that until the details of the previous complaints were looked into it was not identified that the complaint was not a new one, as was believed when 
Mr P was told it would be looked into, but that doesnt mean Santander was wrong not to 
reconsider the complaint.
Santander offered Mr P an assist fixed interest rate. These exist to assist vulnerable 
consumers, where the rates they are entitled to under the banks lending policies, are not 
overly beneficial. The assisted rate doesnt have an early repayment charge or exit fee 
attached to it, so if the customers situation improves and they are eligible for a more 
favourable interest rate product in the future, they can simply apply and change products if 
the application is accepted. 
At any one time a lender will have available a variety of interest rate products that can be 
added to a mortgage. Which products a consumer is eligible for, if any, will depend on 
various factors about the amount of borrowing and how the mortgage has been run; 
effectively, how much risk the mortgage represents to the lender. What rates a lender offers 
are a matter of the lenders commercial judgement, which isnt something we would usually 
interfere with, although we would consider whether it had applied its lending policies fairly. 
Santander explained to Mr P in 2021 that he because he had recently been in arrears, he 
was only able to access certain rates. Those rates were notably higher than the assist rate 
he is currently on. That situation hasnt changed, but what has changed, is that Mr Ps 
mortgage has a current arrears balance, which would only reduce the options available to 
him. I would also confirm that irrespective of what product within Santanders range Mr P 
qualifies for, there are none that are as low as that which he had last year, which quite 
simply means no matter what the details of his mortgage, he couldnt have the rate he 
wants. 
As for the correspondence Mr P has received about the mortgage over the last months, I 
dont consider it was excessive or that it was designed to threaten him. A lender is required 
to keep a borrower who is in arrears informed of the situation and to attempt to do what it 
reasonably can to help them; that involves communication. I am also satisfied that that is 
what Santander did following its response to the earlier complaint. While Mr P clearly didnt 
appreciate being told about the potential consequences of his mortgage being in arrears, 
that is something Santander was required to set out and ensure he understood. It is clear 
that there were many calls between Mr P and Santander from November 2021, but it doesnt 
appear that Santander instigated most of them. Indeed, it is clear from Santanders records 
that there was a hold on the account after it was notified that the previous complaint had 
been referred to this service until after my colleagues final decision, which would have 
stopped collections calls. 
Overall, I am not persuaded that Santanders communications from November 2021 were 
excessive or inappropriate. Nor do I consider that it treated Mr P unfairly from that date in not 
providing him with an interest rate product similar to that which hed previously had.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
11 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman