DRN-4395938
The complaint
A company Ill call S complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) blocked its accounts, then
recalled Ss Bounce Back Loan (BBL) and withheld the funds in Ss accounts.
S is represented by its director, Mr A .
What happened
In June 2021, TSB blocked Ss accounts while it carried out a review. As part of its review,
TSB contacted Mr A to ask him to provide proof S was entitled to a local Council grant it had
received. Mr A answered TSBs questions and sent in documents in support of his answers,
but TSB didnt lift the block. When it completed its review, it issued S with a notice of its 
intention to close Ss account and a letter demanding immediate repayment of the BBL.
TSB retained Ss funds and used part of the account balance to repay the BBL debt, so Mr A
complained. TSB issued its final response to Mr As complaint on 9 July 2021. It said there
are times when it needs to block its customers accounts while it asks for additional
information and proof of entitlement to any funds that have credited the account. It said it 
was
normal to request information in piecemeal and it said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He complained that
TSB had closed his account without warning or reason and that TSB had accused him of
fraud without evidence. He said TSB had sent £9,669.21 of his money back to the Council
without legal grounds, despite that the Council had never accused him of fraud. And he said
TSB had stolen his money because it used £7,481 of his account balance to repay interest
on the BBL that he says wasnt due.
Mr A felt hed been treated differently because of his race and he wanted TSB to apologise,
to return his money, to remove any default markers and to pay compensation.
Our investigator looked at Ss complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said TSB had acted in
line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it returned the funds to the council, that it
had acted in line with its terms of business when it blocked and closed Ss account, and that
TSB had fairly withdrawn the BBL because S wasnt eligible for it in the first place.
Mr A didnt agree, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh. TSB later
agreed to release the £7,481.01 it had previously retained and did so on 5 December 2022.
On 27 September 2023, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything
both Mr A and TSB have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of S, I would need to be satisfied that TSB acted
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence it relied on in
reaching its decision, Im satisfied TSB acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations
when it blocked Ss account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and
conditions that governed the relationship between TSB and S.
Im also satisfied that TSB conducted its review in a reasonable manner. It explained that its
not always possible to request all of the information it needs at the same time, and having
looked at the reasons for its review, along with the information it requested, Im satisfied TSB
completed the review in a reasonably prompt and efficient manner.
Because Im satisfied TSB was entitled to block Ss account, I wont ask it to compensate S
for doing so, given it did nothing wrong. I understand Mr A wants to know the reason for
TSBs actions, but Im satisfied TSB wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account.
TSB issued its notice to close Ss accounts on 3 August 2021. Mr A says hes not happy that
he didnt get advance warning of the closure or an explanation of the reasons behind the
closure.
The terms and conditions that govern the relationship between TSB and S say that TSB can
close Ss account without notice in certain circumstances. So, Ive looked at the evidence
TSB provided our service to determine whether or not it acted fairly when it closed Ss
account. And having done so, Im satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Ss
account without giving prior notice. And that it doesnt have to explain the reasons for its
decision to S.
Council grant recall
Mr A was unhappy that TSB returned funds he had been paid by way of a local grant. He
says the Council hadnt accused him of fraud and that TSB didnt have any evidence to
support their decision. But, having looked at the evidence both parties have provided, Im
satisfied TSB was entitled to return the grant funds to source. Ill explain why.
In reaching my decision, Ive looked at the evidence TSB relied on when it decided to block
and return the grant funds. And Ive thought about the questions it asked Mr A, along with
the answers he gave. TSB asked Mr A to provide evidence to show S was entitled to the
grant funds. In response, Mr A sent in emails from the Council that confirmed the grants had
been paid.Producing confirmation of payment doesnt necessarily demonstrate an entitlement to
receive that payment. And Mr A didnt submit any further evidence that demonstrated S met
the requirements of the grant. TSB has also provided further evidence in support to its
decision to return the funds, which in my view support its decision. So, Im satisfied its
decision to return the funds was reasonable, that it gave Mr A fair opportunity to provide
evidence, and that its assessment of all the evidence it had was appropriate.
BBL
Under the Government-backed BBL scheme, the maximum loan amount available was
£50,000. And applicants could only qualify for the maximum amount if the business turnover
was £200,000 or more.
When Mr A applied for the BBL (in March 2021), he declared an estimated turnover of
£200,000. He declared an estimated turnover instead of an actual turnover because S was
established on 22 January 2019, and the BBL application form stated an estimated turnover
should be provided if a business was established after 1 January 2019.
As part of its review, TSB asked Mr A to provide evidence of the turnover he had declared in
Ss application. The documents Mr S submitted showed a turnover of approximately
£74,500. And Ss publicly available accounts show a turnover of just under £49,000 in 2021
and £57,000 in 2022.
Mr S told our service that he had estimated a turnover of £200,000 because the previous
business was taking over £200,000 per year, and that S had not performed as expected
owing to the Coronavirus pandemic. However, Mr A didnt send our investigator evidence to
support that claim, and crucially, he didnt attempt to submit any such evidence when he was
approached by TSB.
Further, Mr A would have been aware that Ss turnover up to March 2021 was significantly
below the estimate he declared. And the economic effects of the Coronavirus pandemic had
been known for the previous 12 months, so I dont accept the pandemic was to blame for Mr
As inaccurate estimate. Because of that, Im not persuaded Mr As estimated turnover was
reasonable or realistic.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded S was entitled to receive a BBL of £50,000. And so,
it follows that Im satisfied TSB was entitled to recall the loan in the manner it did, and to
deduct the balance of the loan from Ss account.
Account balance
When TSB issued its demand for S to repay the BBL, it said it had used Ss account balance
of £57,481.01 to repay the debt. However, the letter reiterated that S was not liable for
interest during the first 12 months of the loan, and didnt explain why TSB had taken more
than the £50,000 BBL debt.
TSB eventually released £7,481.01 to Mr A on 5 December 2022, after our investigator
asked what TSB was doing with the funds. I wrote to TSB to ask why it had held onto that
amount, and why it hadnt released the money to Mr A sooner than it did. TSB said it couldnt
issue a cheque because it needed Mr A to provide proof of his business address as part of
its security process, to make sure it was releasing the funds to the correct person.
I asked TSB to provide evidence to demonstrate it had communicated that requirement to Mr
A, and said that I would be minded to award S interest on the balance withheld if it couldnt
do so.TSBs internal notes from April 2021 say that it had decided it needed to see proof of Mr As
address. But they dont show that any attempt was made to communicate that requirement
to Mr A, and they dont refer to the account balance being withheld subject to this.
When I asked TSB to provide evidence that it communicated its requirement to Mr A, it sent
me a copy of a letter dated 24 June 2021. That letter though was sent 2 months after TSB
had decided it needed to see proof of address, and it didnt reference Ss account balance.
Rather, the letter requested proof Mr A was entitled to various payments that had credited
Ss accounts. It did say that Mr A would need to take proof of identity to a branch, but that
was only in the context of providing the proof of entitlement to the credits referred to in the
letter, and even then, only if Mr A preferred to take the proof of entitlement to his local
branch.
With that being said, I dont accept that letter was intended to explain what steps Mr A
needed to take to obtain release of his account balance, and I dont accept that it would have 
alerted Mr A to TSBs requirements. TSB eventually agreed to make the payment by faster 
payment instead of cheque, but I accept it was entitled to issue the balance by cheque in the 
first instance.
However, because it hasnt provided evidence to show it told Mr A what he had to do to
obtain the account balance, Im not persuaded it released the funds to S promptly, so it
should pay S interest to compensate it for the period during which S was deprived of its
funds unfairly.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I take the view that TSB should have released the account
balance to S when it closed the account on 8 September 2021. It was entitled to verify Ss
address, but it didnt communicate that requirement to Mr A, and Ive seen nothing to
suggest Mr A wouldnt have withdrawn those funds immediately, had he known what he had
to do.
Discrimination
Finally, Mr A complained that TSBs actions were motivated by discrimination on the grounds
of his race. In terms of discrimination, its not our role to say whether a business has acted
unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a
number of things into account including relevant law and what we consider to have been
good industry practice at the time.
So, although its for the Courts to say whether or not TSB has breached the Equality Act
2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst
other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the
complaint.
With that in mind, Ive thought about whether or not TSB has acted in a fair and reasonable
way in all the circumstances of this complaint. And for all of the reasons Ive set out above,
Im satisfied that it has, and that its actions were motivated by complying with its legal and
regulatory obligations. I recognise that Mr A is unhappy with the way TSB treated him, but
Im satisfied it acted appropriately in its investigation, and in the actions it took following that
investigation. And Ive seen nothing to suggest its actions were motivated by Mr As race.
I asked both parties to submit any further evidence or arguments they wished me to consider 
by 11 October 2023. TSB accepted my provisional findings, but Mr A sought additional 
compensation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To summarise Mr As reply to my provisional findings, he said TSB had caused him 
significant distress and felt TSB had lied when it said it was waiting for confirmation of his 
correct address. He wanted me to award interest from 8 September 2021 up to the date I 
issued this final decision (i.e. 12 October 2023) instead of 5 December 2022).
Ive thought about Mr As further submissions, but they dont change my provisional findings. 
Im sorry to hear of the distress Mr A experienced, but I cant make an award in that regard. 
TSBs customer is S, a limited company, not Mr A, and so I can only compensate S, not its 
directors. And a limited company of course cant experience distress. And given my findings 
in relation to the history of the account, Im satisfied the interest payment is sufficient 
compensation and Im not persuaded it would be appropriate to make a further award. As I 
said in my provisional findings, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to take the actions it did, save 
for the delayed return of funds. So I wont tell it to compensate S for anything other than that 
delay.
Further, Im satisfied TSB didnt lie about needing confirmation of Mr As address. Ive seen 
the notes it made at the time that explained the reasons for that decision, and Im satisfied it 
acted appropriately in the circumstances. The only thing it did wrong was that it failed to 
communicate that requirement to Mr A. But Im satisfied the contemporaneous notes 
demonstrate that it did decide it needed proof of Mr As address.
I appreciate Mr A would like me to extend the period for which interest should be paid, but 
the purpose of that award is to compensate S for the time it went without access to its 
money owing to an error on TSBs part. That period ended on 5 December 2022, so it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell TSB to compensate S for any time after that date, 
because S was no longer deprived of its money from then on.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that TSB Bank PLC must pay S 
simple interest at the rate of 8% on the account balance of £7,481.01 from 8 September 
2021 to 5 December 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman