DRN-3948237
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc prevented him from buying shares in a UK listed 
company for several days in late August 2022. 
To put matters right Mr C would like HSBC to pay him reasonable compensation for the 
financial loss he says he has suffered and the anxiety this matter caused him.
What happened
In late August 2022, Mr C placed an order to buy shares in a UK listed company using 
HSBCs InvestDirect platform. The order was rejected. Mr C contacted HSBC to query why 
his order had been rejected. HSBC explained that it had suspended the stock as it was 
subject to a Corporate Action. I understand that once the Corporate Action had been 
completed HSBC removed the suspension.
Mr C complained to HSBC. He said other trading platforms had not suspended trading in the 
stock and he felt HSBC had acted incorrectly when it prevented him from trading the stock, 
simply because it was subject to a Corporate Action. He said he had suffered a financial loss 
as a result of HSBCs decision to suspend trading in the stock and he had also suffered 
anxiety due to being unable to trade in the stock for several days.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said that due to the way its system operated, it had 
to suspend trading to allow the Corporate Action to be completed. 
Mr C was not satisfied with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
Having considered Mr Cs complaint, our investigator said he was satisfied that HSBC was 
entitled to make a legitimate commercial decision to suspend trading in a stock if its system 
could not support trading while the stock was subject to a Corporate Action.
Mr C did not accept our investigators view. He referred to information that had been 
provided to shareholders in connection with the Corporate Action. He also provided 
information showing that the stock had been traded on the London Stock Exchange during 
the period it had been suspended on HSBCs platform. Mr C said he felt it was HSBC 
InvestDirects mistake to stop me from trading on [name of] stock from 25 August 2022 to 1 
September 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Cs position, but having carefully considered this matter, I cannot 
reasonably agree that HSBC made a mistake when it suspended trading in the stock Mr C 
wanted to buy while the Corporate Action was completed. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions for HSBCs InvestDirect Plus set out, under the heading Key 
Features of Investment dealing:
What Investments can I deal in using this Service?
You can invest in a range of Equity Investments, gilts (UK Government bonds), Investment 
Trusts and UK-listed Exchange Traded Funds. Please be aware that we may not offer the 
full range of Investments available in the Regulated Market.
We reserve the right to remove or suspend any Investment from the Service if there is 
extreme market volatility or for any other valid reason we may tell you of. However, if 
you've already asked us to buy an Investment before we decide to remove or suspend that 
Investment from the Service, we'll still try to enter into a deal for that order on your behalf. If 
you have an Investment In your Investment Account which has been suspended or removed 
from the Service, we may still allow you to hold or sell that Investment.
(bold is my emphasis)
As the terms and conditions for Mr Cs account clearly set out, HSBC is entitled to remove or 
suspend any Investment (in this case the stock Mr C wanted to buy) for a valid reason. I 
note that HSBC has explained to Mr C that, due to the way its system operated, it had to 
suspend trading to allow the Corporate Action to be completed. As HSBCs system couldnt 
support buy orders until the Corporate Action had been completed, I cant reasonably find 
that it acted incorrectly when it temporarily suspended trading in the stock Mr C wanted to 
buy.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr C was hoping for. As our investigator 
explained, this service determines complaints on their individual merits. We dont have the 
power to order a business to change its processes or get involved in legitimate commercial 
decisions about how it operates. If Mr C remains concerned that HSBC didnt allow him to 
buy stock while a Corporate Action on the stock was being completed, he may wish to raise 
this with the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman