DRN-3882286
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
(AAU) because it has voided his cover to a date part way through the policy year (meaning it 
didnt exist after that time) and, by association, declined a claim which occurred after the 
date the policy was voided to.
What happened
Mr H suffered some ill health. In July 2021 his consultant told him to notify the DVLA of his 
medical condition and to surrender his driving licence. But the consultant also told Mr H that 
he may be able to drive again in a year or so if his health improved. Mr H duly sent his 
licence into the DVLA, but received nothing in return from it.
In late July 2021 Mr H took out a new insurance policy for his car with AAU. He did this on a 
price comparison site. When answering questions about his licence he said had a full licence 
and that hed notified the DVLA of a medical condition, resulting in a 1 year restricted 
licence. Mr Hs policy with AAU began on 30 July 2021.
In December 2021 Mr Hs car was stolen. He made a claim to AAU. AAU, when validating 
the claim, discovered that Mr Hs licence was showing as surrendered as of 
19 September 2021. AAU wrote to Mr H. It referenced both the Insurance Act 2012 and the 
Consumer Insurance Act 2012, and policy terms which it felt Mr H had breached. It said all 
that meant it had the right to declare the policy void from the date the licence was showing 
as surrendered  19 September 2021. AAU said that as this meant there wasnt a valid 
contract of insurance with it when the car was stolen, it wouldnt deal with the claim. It said 
that Mr H was entitled (presumaby due to the voidance) to a refund of his premium. But it 
also said that because there was an open claim (the December 2021 theft) on the policy, 
and whilst it was viewing the policy as not having existed since September 2021, the policy 
terms allowed it to keep any premium paid until the open claim was settled. 
Mr H was unhappy with AAU. He said he had completed the on-line detail correctly at the 
time  the DVLA only updating his licence as surrendered months later. He said he had 
in-put on the website that he had told the DVLA of his medical condition and that he had a 
one-year restricted licence  which he felt was the correct response. When AAU wasnt 
prepared to change its position, Mr H complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that AAU had acted reasonably. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
was unhappy, so his complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt that AAU had failed Mr H regarding his premium and the date it voided his cover to. But 
that the actual decision it had taken to view the cover as void was fair and reasonable  
which meant that AAU had no liability for the claim. So I issued a provisional decision to 
explain my views. My provisional findings were:
I think AAU could have done a better job of assessing what had happened here, and 
communicating to Mr H why it felt he had done something wrong, what that meant for his 
policy and why that was. I think AAU was very unclear in its communications. It referenced 
either irrelevant or incorrectly named legislation, and whilst it was seeking to rely on 
legislation to void the cover, it then sought to rely on policy terms to justify its actions as well. 
When a policy is voided its seen as not having ever existed  so it is illogical to rely on 
policy terms, for example in respect of the premium, when the policy those terms are 
contained in is void ie not in existence. I think, if AAU had been clearer then Mr H would not 
have felt so frustrated with it. Ill take that into account when awarding compensation.
The legislation AAU was relying on was the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This governs the rights and obligations of the 
contracting parties when arranging and renewing a contract of insurance. 
If a prospective policyholder (here that would be Mr H) makes a mistake or fails to answer an 
insurer's question when applying for a policy of insurance, that is known in the insurance 
industry as a misrepresentation. CIDRA says that the prospective policyholder, when 
applying for cover, must take reasonable care not to make any misrepresentation to the 
insurer. Some misrepresentations that are made will be seen as qualifying 
misrepresentations. CIDRA also sets out what an insurer can do if a qualifying 
misrepresentation is made.  
Whether or not a misrepresentation is seen to be a qualifying one depends on two things. 
First, did the prospective policyholder take reasonable care when they gave the answer they 
did. Second, can the insurer show that if correct/full detail had been given, it wouldnt have 
entered into the insurance contract, or it would but only on different terms.  What the insurer 
would have done is often a matter of fact  and I have seen evidenced in that respect here. 
In short AAU has shown that it is not prepared to offer cover to anyone without a full UK 
driving licence. And it is clear to me that Mr H, even when applying for the policy, no longer 
had a full licence because he had surrendered it. So Ill look at whether, when providing the 
detail he did, whilst completing that application, Mr H took reasonable care. If I find that he 
didnt then he will be seen to have provided a qualifying misrepresentation. And Ill then look 
at the remedies available to AAU in that instance.
Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will often depend largely on 
whether the questions asked by the insurer were clear and/or specific enough to elicit from 
the reader what it really was the insurer wanted to know. If they were clear but incorrect 
detail was given anyway, then its likely reasonable care wasnt taken. In this case Mr H was 
asked what type of licence he had. I think that was a clear question. And Mr H said he had a 
full licence. But I think that Mr H gave AAU incorrect information in that respect. According to 
Mr H, in mid-July his doctor had told him to surrender his driving licence, and he did that 
before applying for cover with AAU. So at the point of applying for cover, Mr H did not have a 
licence at all. I think its fair to say that, in this respect, Mr H gave incorrect information to 
AAU.
But in considering whether reasonable care was taken, I also have to think about why an 
incorrect answer was given. Here I understand that Mr H has said that as the DVLA never 
responded to him, he wasnt sure what had happened with his licence. So, Mr H has 
explained that he said he had a full licence and then provided further detail confirming that 
he had declared a medical condition to the DVLA and, as a result, had a one-year restricted 
licence. But Im not sure that detail helps Mr H establish that he gave correct information to 
AAU. I say that because Mr H did not have a licence which he would have to renew after a 
year. Rather he had surrendered his licence and not heard further from the DVLA. Whether, 
in time, his health might have allowed him to regain his licence, perhaps after a year, is a 
different matter. I think it is possible that Mr H made a mistake in this respect. But, I think the 
details asked of him, and any options he was given by way of responding, were clear.I think that rather than compounding the situation by providing the further incorrect 
information to AAU, Mr H could have approached the DVLA for clarification on the status of 
his licence before answering AAUs questions. That would have equated to Mr H taking 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to AAU. As it is, I think Mr H failed to take 
reasonable care in answering AAUs questions and that in doing so, incorrect information 
was provided to AAU on which it based its policy offer.
I know Mr H thinks AAU should have checked the detail he gave it. But because CIDRA 
places the onus on the prospective policyholder to not make a misrepresentation, the insurer 
can act in good faith on the basis of what it is told. 
So Mr H did, in my view, make a qualifying misrepresentation to AAU because he didnt take 
reasonable care and incorrect detail was provided upon which AAU based its policy. And, 
importantly, AAU has shown that it would not have offered the policy if the correct detail had 
been given. As I noted above, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to insurers in this 
situation. Essentially that is to avoid the contract. In the circumstances here then, I think 
that AAUs act to treat the policy as void was fair and reasonable. 
But avoiding the contract means that the policy is treated as never having existed  ie the 
contract for it is/was avoided. So that has to be from the point the policy was applied for  
the voidance, quite logically, cant be logged as having occurred several months after the 
misrepresentation occurred and the policy came into effect. CIDRA also requires that, unless 
an insurer has shown that the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate, the policy 
premium is returned to the policyholder. AAU didnt show the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless. So AAU should have logged the policy as void from the date the 
cover was applied for and returned Mr Hs premiums. But it didnt do either of those things. 
Rather AAU sought to void the policy to September 2021, which is the date the licence was 
marked as surrendered by the DVLA. There is no basis or right for AAU to do that. Rather, 
as referenced above, the policy should be marked void as of the date it was previously 
agreed. Further AAU refused to return Mr Hs premiums. It said the policy allowed it to retain 
them. But theres no logical or reasonable basis on which AAU can seek to rely on policy 
terms for a policy which it has also sought to treat as void. And CIDRA, as Ive said above, 
does require the premiums to be returned. As such, whilst Ive found that the voidance itself 
was fair and reasonable, I think AAU failed Mr H in executing that action. So AAU will have 
to amend the policy record regarding the date of voidance and return Mr Hs premium to him, 
plus interest* from 29 December 2021 (the date it said it was treating the policy as void) until 
reimbursement is made. 
Mr H has been left without money he was reasonably entitled to receive. I think this was 
likely inconvenient for him. And, as I noted above, I think AAUs poor handling of this matter 
also caused him frustration. I think AAU should pay Mr H £150 compensation. 
I realise that my suggested awards will seem insubstantial to Mr H  his car was stolen and 
without the benefit of the policy he has no recourse to replacing it or settling any finance on 
it. However, the by-product of the voidance is that AAU has no liability for the claim which 
occurred, because the policy never existed. And, unfortunately for Mr H, I have found that 
AAUs voidance was fair and reasonable. As such I cant reasonably require it to consider 
the claim. 
AAU didnt object to my findings. Mr H said he appreciated the suggested awards made but 
that he was still disappointed. He said he acted in good faith when answering the questions 
asked as he did. He said hed said he had a full licence as that was correct until such a time 
as the DVLA told him it had been revoked  and the only other option he was given to 
answer that question was provisional which was incorrect. Mr H said he may have misunderstood the questions and he was not in the best of health at the time. He said hed 
still needed his car to be insured even though he knew he couldnt drive and he feels that 
having been honest about this has gone against him. Mr H asked that I change my mind on 
the voidance, confirming that without that he will be left in a very serious financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr H answered the questions in good faith  but that does not necessarily 
mean that he took reasonable care. I note Mr H said he was only given the option of stating 
whether his licence was full or provisional. And I understand that Mr H feels that technically, 
until the DVLA accepted that his full licence was surrendered, it was still valid. But I bear in 
mind that the options Mr H was given for the type of licence he had included Other. And 
when being asked what had happened about relevant medical conditions, instead of 
answering that the DVLA had given him a one-year restriction on his licence, which had not 
occurred, he could have selected Doctor advised not to drive, which had happened.
I appreciate that Mr H was unwell and worried about his health when answering these 
questions. But I havent seen anything that makes me think he was incapable of 
understanding the questions. And Im mindful that Mr H seems to have been aware, at that 
time, that he was unwell. So for something important like this he could have asked someone 
to assist him with answering the questions. And as I said provisionally, he could also have 
acted to check with the DVLA what the status of his licence was. That, in my view, would 
have equated to Mr H taking reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to AAU.
I dont doubt that even though Mr H couldnt drive, he still needed his car to be insured. And 
there are likely insurers and policies out there that would offer that. But AAU is not one of 
them and if Mr H had given accurate answers, to the questions he was asked, AAU would 
not have offered the policy to him. 
I know this will be upsetting for Mr H but Im not persuaded that I can fairly and reasonably 
require AAU to revise its position on the voidance. I think its decision in that respect  apart 
from how it executed that, which I explained my views on provisionally and which have not 
changed  was fair and reasonable.
As no objection has been made to the other points I made in my provisional decision, or in 
respect of my awards, Ive no need to change them. My provisional findings, along with the 
findings here, are now those of this my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AAU to:
Amend the record of the voidance to show the policy was avoided at the point it was 
agreed (incepted).
Return Mr Hs premiums, plus interest* from 29 December 2021 until reimbursement is 
made. 
Pay Mr H £150 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires AAU to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman