DRN-4288269
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK plc withdrew its offer to lend her a buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
Mrs R has a buy-to-let mortgage with another lender. In May 2022, through a broker, she 
applied to remortgage to Santander. In addition to her existing mortgage, she wanted to 
borrow some extra money in order to buy a share of the freehold to the mortgaged property 
and then extend the lease.  
Between 20 June and 26 September 2022, Santander issued three mortgage offers. Initially 
its offer was subject to a retention; that amount changed and was finally removed. Part B of 
each offer set out the conditions that needed to be met before completion, and included:
5. [..] we will not accept a lease where on [sic] at expiry of the mortgage: less than 50 years 
remain and all or part of the loan is repaid on an interest-only basis.
On 10 October 2022, Santander withdrew its offer of a mortgage because the length of the 
lease on the property didnt meet the requirement above.
Mrs R complained. She had been expecting to remortgage on the 2.79% five-year fixed rate 
product Santander had offered her, and felt several months had been wasted now that 
Santander wouldnt honour its offer  during which time interest rates had risen significantly, 
so she was no longer able to get as good a deal elsewhere. She had also been paying 
interest at her existing lenders standard variable rate since her previous fixed rate had 
ended on 31 August 2022.
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong, because the remaining lease on the property 
didnt meet its minimum requirement and this hadnt come to light until a late stage, when it 
received an amended valuation.
Mrs R referred her complaint to us. Our Investigator concluded that Santander should have 
declined Mrs Rs mortgage application around a month earlier than it did, on or about 
13 September 2022. He recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Santander agreed, and offered to refund the difference between what Mrs R had paid on her 
lenders standard variable rate between 1 and 31 October 2022 and what she would have 
paid on the tracker rate she took with effect from 1 November 2022. It said it would also pay 
Mrs R £150 compensation.
Our Investigator thought that was fair, given that he had found Mrs R would most likely have 
arranged a new tracker rate a month earlier, and that the new rate could have been in place 
from 1 October 2022.
Mrs R disagreed and asked for a review. She still thought Santander should have declined 
her application much earlier, given that it knew about the length of her lease in July 2022. 
She also said she thought Santanders lending criteria had changed; otherwise it would have 
declined her application earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator did  that is, 
that Santander has made a fair offer to resolve this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Santanders policy in respect of the minimum remaining lease it would 
accept. Where the mortgage is interest-only (as Mrs Rs was to be), the minimum time 
remaining on the lease at the expiry of the mortgage term had to be 50 years. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that this policy changed between May and October 2022, when Mrs Rs 
application was in progress. This requirement is also on all the mortgage offers issued to 
Mrs R. Santander was entitled to decide to have this requirement; it has explained to Mrs R 
that this is because the length of the lease affects the propertys value.
The completed mortgage application which Mrs Rs broker submitted to Santander on her 
behalf said there were 125 years left on the propertys lease. That turned out not to be the 
case: there were in fact 65 years left, which would have left only 47 years remaining at the 
end of the 18-year mortgage term for which Mrs R had applied. 
However, Santander didnt know about this at the outset. The available evidence shows that 
it found out in July 2022: on 11 July 2022, the conveyancing solicitors faxed Santander with 
details of the correct remaining term on the lease and asking for its further instructions  
specifically, Please confirm if you will require the lease to be extended. 
There followed various correspondence between Santander, the conveyancing solicitors, 
and Mrs R. Mrs R had already said that she intended to buy the freehold to the property and 
extend the lease. Santander wanted to establish whether she could extend the lease before 
completion of the remortgage  because, if she could, the existing time left on the lease as it 
stood wouldnt be an issue and wouldnt stop Santander from lending.
Mrs R confirmed on 22 August 2022 that she wouldnt be extending the lease prior to 
completion because she intended to buy the freehold first. Santanders records show that it 
then referred the application back to the valuer, who went on to say on 5 September 2022 
that if Mrs R were to buy the freehold at the same time as completion of the remortgage, that 
would be acceptable. The conveyancers relayed that to Mrs R the following day. Also on 6 
September 2022, Mrs R told the conveyancers that purchasing the freehold was likely to 
take months. The conveyancers relayed that to Santander on 8 September 2022. 
Santanders records show that it reviewed the application on 13 September 2022 and 
instructed an amended valuation  but I think that, knowing at that time that the remaining 
lease on the property didnt meet its requirements and that Mrs R wouldnt be able to make 
any changes in time, it should have declined the application at that point. 
Mrs R says Santander should have told her sooner if it wasnt willing to lend. Had it done so, 
she could have looked elsewhere for a mortgage while rates were considerably lower than 
they were when Santander withdrew its offer.
Ive looked carefully at the exchanges of correspondence in this case, and I think the 
questions Santander was asking were reasonable  once it knew about the issue with the 
lease, it first wanted to know whether and when the lease could be extended, and secondly 
when Mrs R would be buying a share of the freehold. It was exploring whether it could grant the mortgage. It should not, however, have gone on to issue a mortgage offer on 26 
September 2022 and should have declined Mrs Rs application sooner, once it became clear 
that the lease wouldnt be extended and the share of the freehold wouldnt be bought either 
before or on completion of the remortgage. 
Ultimately, the length of the remaining lease meant that Santander would never have been 
prepared to grant the mortgage Mrs R wanted, so I cant fairly require it to compensate her 
on the basis of the fixed interest rate product she had applied for. But Im satisfied that Mrs R 
would have applied elsewhere for a new product as soon as she knew her application to 
Santander had been declined. So I find that she should be compensated for the extra 
interest she has had to pay as a result of Santander not declining the application in 
mid-September 2022.
Mrs R arranged a tracker rate with her existing lender on 14 October 2022, with effect from 1 
November 2022. She has said she has always taken fixed interest rate products in the past 
on this and other mortgages, and always for five years  but as a result of the volatile 
financial climate in October 2022 and the lack of availability of low fixed rate products, she 
took a two-year tracker with a small fee to pay on early redemption, in order that she could 
move the mortgage onto a fixed rate once interest rates were more stable. 
I can certainly understand Mrs Rs point  although the information Ive seen shows that she 
had taken two-year, rather than five-year, fixed interest rates on this particular mortgage in 
2018 and 2020. So Ive considered the interest rate products her existing lender had 
available in mid-September 2022.
The lowest two-year fixed rate product on offer for which Mrs R would have been eligible 
between 8 September and 5 October 2022 was 4.84%, the lowest five-year fixed rate was 
4.49%, and the lowest tracker rate was a two-year product at Bank of England base rate 
plus 1.09%.
The fixed rates available from this lender increased on 5 October 2022, to above 5%. The 
two-year tracker remained the same: Bank of England base rate plus 1.09%, which is the 
product Mrs R went ahead with.
On balance, I think Mrs R is most unlikely to have made a different decision and taken a 
fixed rate product on or soon after 13 September 2022, had Santander told her then that her 
application to it wouldnt proceed. The available fixed rates from her existing lender were 
more than double the 1.99% she had been paying until 31 August 2022  and I consider it 
most likely that Mrs R would have made the same decision in September 2022 that she went 
on to make in October 2022.
I therefore find that Santander has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right and, 
on the basis that it would have taken a short time to put the new product in place, Mrs R 
could reasonably have moved her mortgage onto a two-year tracker rate at Bank of England 
base rate plus 1.09% from 1 October 2022 instead of 1 November 2022. Mrs R didnt pay 
legal or valuation fees in connection with her Santander application, and I make no award for 
broker fees as they would have been payable irrespective of the outcome of the application. 
I consider that Mrs R should also fairly receive some additional compensation for the 
inconvenience and disappointment she was caused as a result of Santander not having 
declined her application sooner. I find £150 is a fair award to reflect that.
Putting things right
Santander UK plc should pay Mrs R:1) the difference between what she paid on her lenders standard variable rate (which the 
lender has confirmed was 5.74%) between 1 and 31 October 2022 and what she would 
have paid on the tracker rate (Bank of England base rate plus 1.09%) she took with 
effect from 1 November 2022;. 
2) simple annual interest of 8% on the sum at 1) above from 1 November 2022 to the date 
of settlement*;
3) £150 compensation.
*Santander may deduct income tax from the 8% element as required by HMRC. It should tell 
Mrs R what it has deducted so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do 
so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman