DRN-3952103
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement that Haven Insurance Company Limited paid him after 
a claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ms van was damaged by fire and declared to be a total loss. Haven offered him £5,564 
in settlement of his claim less the £900 policy excess and £1,124 for the outstanding 
premium. Mr M said he couldnt replace his van for this amount. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Havens settlement offer for the vans market value was fair and reasonable. And she 
thought the deduction for the excess was correct. But she thought it was unfair for Haven to 
deduct the outstanding premium from the settlement. She thought Haven should have 
allowed Mr M to continue his monthly payments or add a replacement van onto the policy. 
She thought Haven should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset this had 
caused. 
Haven replied that it had deducted the outstanding premium in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions. Haven asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said hed had his van for only five weeks before it caught fire. He said hed paid £7,500 
for the van. He said he wasnt able to replace it with Havens settlement of £3,539 for its pre-
accident value after the deductions. 
I can see that the policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Haven looked for valuations of Mr Ms van in the motor trade guides we use. I can see that it 
looked for the correct make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ms van at its date of 
loss. It found three valuations and it offered Mr M the highest of these. So, as the valuation 
was made correctly according to our approach, I cant say that it wasnt fair and reasonable. 
Haven then deducted the policy excess which was £900. I can see that this was correctly 
calculated as set out on the table included in the policy schedule. The policy excess is 
always the first part of a claim to be paid. And so I think Haven reasonably deducted this 
from the settlement. 
Haven said it had also deducted the outstanding premium in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. It relied on the following which is on page 12 of the policy booklet:
12. If We make settlement of the Market Value of Your Vehicle or the Limit of Coverage in 
settlement of a claim under sections B1 and / or B2:
d) We will deduct any outstanding premiums from any settlement due. 
But I dont think this was fair and reasonable in Mr Ms circumstances. This is because Mr M 
was repaying a finance company for his annual premium with interest in monthly 
instalments.  
The standard industry practice is that where a claim has been made no premium is 
refundable, even if the van is written-off during the policy year, as in Mr Ms case. Where the 
consumer was paying the yearly premium by monthly instalments, they must still pay the 
outstanding instalments after the vehicle is written-off. 
But our approach is that we might not think its fair if the insurer requires the outstanding 
amount in one lump sum where they could just continue to collect it by instalments. 
Also, when an insurer declares a vehicle a total loss, we expect it to offer the consumer the 
option of bringing a replacement vehicle onto the insurance policy (subject to its underwriting 
criteria) so that the remainder of the policy term can be used.  
So I think Haven should have allowed Mr M the option to carry on paying the premium in 
instalments, which was his preferred option when he took out the policy. And I think Haven 
should also have allowed Mr M to put another van on the policy and it could then have 
adjusted the premium, if needed, unless it was unable to insure the van.
But it didnt do this. So I don't think Haven treated Mr M fairly and reasonably when it 
deducted the remaining premium and didnt offer him the option to keep repaying it by 
instalments or adding a replacement van to the policy. 
This caused Mr M financial loss as he was then unable to replace his van with Havens 
settlement and so he lost earnings. Our Investigator recommended that Haven should pay 
him £300 compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
our published guidance. 
Our Investigator asked Haven how much Mr M paid for the outstanding premium and how 
this was calculated. Haven said this was the responsibility of Mr Ms broker. But I disagree 
as I think the broker did this on Havens behalf. I think Haven should provide Mr M with a 
breakdown of how his outstanding premium was calculated. If Mr M thinks this wasnt 
correctly calculated, he can always raise this as a further complaint against Haven. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim and to provide him with a breakdown 
of the calculation of his outstanding premium.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman