DRN-3666310
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling and settlement of her 
subsidence claim under her home insurance policy.
Generally, Ill refer to representatives and others acting on behalf of Fairmead as Fairmead.
What happened
Ms M made a claim for subsidence damage to her property extension. There were some 
delays but eventually Fairmeads loss adjuster S appointed a contractor G to come up 
with a treatment plan to stabilise the house. After this S reviewed the damage to the 
property and produced a schedule of work to repair Ms Ms home. However, the first scope 
of work put forward was checked again, and after a further visit to the home a second 
schedule involving far less repair was provided.
S said a far smaller repair was needed because it didnt need to include the kitchen floor as 
this wasnt claim related. It said the kitchen floor was suffering wear and tear, gradual 
damage, and faulty design. It said the floor was moisture affected, softening and 
unventilated, so it wasnt covered. Fairmead said the damage just wasnt consistent with 
subsidence and the damage wasnt covered under the policy.
Ms M didnt accept this. She got her own expert report courtesy of H. This said the 
damage to the units and the out of level of the floor is being blamed on softening of the 
joistsclearly the joists have not suffered in the manner assumedthe joists are clearly 
wrapped in damp proof course at their bearings and have suffered no compression 
whatsoever. It concluded that the floor and kitchen units were clearly linked to subsidence. 
It said underpinning and significant internal work was needed to the kitchen floor and units. 
However, Fairmead maintained its decision.
In terms of the service provided Fairmead did accept it hadnt been as good as Ms M should 
have been able to expect. Over a couple of her complaint issues it paid £500 compensation 
for the lack of service and problems caused. But as the kitchen floor remained in dispute 
Ms M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was more persuaded by Ms Ms report. 
She didnt think Fairmead had provided enough evidence to show it could rely on a policy 
exclusion for wear and tear. Our investigator said the floor and kitchen units should be 
included within the scope of works as part of the claim. She also said Fairmead should pay 
for the cost of Ms Ms report and pay 8% interest on this cost from the date the report was 
obtained until settlement date. To compensate for the extra distress and inconvenience of 
having to get her own report she said Fairmead should pay a further £100 compensation.
Unhappy with this Fairmead asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
In my recent provisional decisions, I said:
Fairmead maintains its decision is correct regarding the kitchen floor and units. It said, We 
would still stand by our Technical Opinion that the movement to this Suspended Timber floor 
of the Kitchen Extension is not consistent with the Subsidence movement that has occurred 
to the foundations.
Fairmead said The degree of movement to the 2 elements are hugely different. For 
example, the distortion and slope to the timber suspended floor of the kitchen extension is 
circa 25mm over my 800mm survey spirit level. This slope to the floor runs from front to back 
of the extension and the kitchen worktops along the LH wall and RH wall of the kitchen also 
slope in the same directions due to being built off and supported by the timber suspended 
floor.
However, levels taken with the same survey spirit level along the line of the brickwork to the 
LH elevation of the extension show the brickwork courses to be true and level which 
confirms that the subsidence movements to the foundations are not consistent with the level 
of movement that can be seen to the kitchen floor. In our opinion this would demonstrate that 
the movement and slope distortion to the floor is not as a result of the subsidence. It also 
provided photographs it said demonstrated the levels on site.
Fairmead also said it is not my view that the timber floor of the extension was built sloping 
but it is my view that it has dropped over time due to a defect that has occurred within the 
floor! A number of factors/defects could of caused the floor to drop in this way. It is my 
opinion that it is not the subsidence/foundation movements that has caused the drop to this 
timber suspended floor. My confirmation of this is due to the external brickwork courses of 
the LH elevation wall of the kitchen extension still remaining level and true. This suggests 
that any movements which have occurred to the foundations is not consistent with the level 
and degree of movement and damage that is evident to the kitchen floor.
Fairmead said theres no evidence to show a link between the floor and the subsidence 
claim. The kitchen floor hasnt been affected in the same manner.
But to counter this Ms M got further evidence from H. This said:
Damage is linked to the subsidence issue. Its too much of a coincidence to suggest 
otherwise.
As foundation movement is accepted, it cannot reasonably be argued that the floor joists 
would remain in situ.
The wall in question provides support for the floor joists.
Sloping floor joists are among the first signs of a subsidence issue.
Where joists become moisture affected is at the point of bearing. If the joists were 
affected elsewhere by damp, this would produce a sag in the floor not a fall.
These new expert points do bring into question whether or not Fairmead has acted fairly and 
reasonably in this case
The matter needs to be brought to a fair and reasonable conclusion for Ms Ms sake. So, to 
decide this case an independent third party expert is required. To complete this Fairmead 
need to provide details to Ms M of three independent subsidence experts who are chartered 
engineers. Ms M can then look at their details and select one. Once she has confirmed to 
Fairmead which one shed like to be the independent expert it should pay that experts costs 
and arrangements should be made between the parties for this new expert to inspect Ms Ms 
claim damage regarding the floor and the kitchen units. As both sides will have had a say in 
the selection the expert, they will be considered to have been jointly appointed by Fairmead 
and Ms M.Once appointed the expert should be provided with the already produced evidence from both 
sides so this can all be reviewed before inspecting the floor and kitchen unit damage at the 
property. Ms M would arrange a suitable convenient date to allow the inspection to take 
place and she would be able to explain the outstanding issues linked to the claim to the 
independent expert in person. The expert would then provide a report with their findings on 
the cause of the damage to the floor and kitchen units to both parties for their comments, 
along with how this can be remedied, and what Fairmead should be paying for under this 
policy.
The parties will then be bound by the findings of the independent expert.
Regarding compensation I note that the claim has run over an extended period. Although 
subsidence claims do take a lot longer than most other types of general insurance claims, I 
think its right that Fairmead accepted it should have provided a better service. It paid £500 
as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused, and I think that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Responses to my provisional decisions
Both parties are happy to accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties accept the provisional decision, I can confirm there is no need to change it. 
My provisional decision becomes my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
pay for and jointly appoint with Ms M an independent expert to inspect and report on the 
outstanding claim damage.
both parties will be bound by the expert report findings and solutions put forward to 
resolve the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
pay for and jointly appoint with Ms M an independent expert to inspect and report on the 
outstanding claim damage.
both parties will be bound by the expert report findings and solutions put forward to 
resolve the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
John QuinlanOmbudsman