DRN-3839160
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about mortgage account administration by Nationwide 
Building Society. They say that they werent told that Nationwide would take payments for 
both their old and new mortgages during the same month. As a result, Mr and Mrs B say 
they were left in financial difficulty.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs B want to be compensated for a months mortgage 
along with compensation for distress, inconvenience, financial loss, ill health which they 
suffered for several months and embarrassment caused to them.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs B being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs B were moving house, as a result of which they were redeeming their 
Nationwide mortgage and taking out a new mortgage, also with Nationwide. Completion was 
due on 9 June 2022. 
A redemption statement was issued which factored in the payment that would be required for 
June 2022 in the total payments section, showing what payments had been made towards 
the mortgage. The first payment for the new mortgage was collected on 17 June 2022, and 
this caused Mr and Mrs B some financial difficulty, because they werent expecting to have 
to make two payments in the same month.. 
Mr and Mrs B complained, as they had thought that the amount paid on completion to 
redeem the mortgage included the June payment. Before Nationwide was able to issue its 
final response, Mr and Mrs B escalated their complaint to our service on 5 September 2022. 
In its final response letter dated 15 September 2022 Nationwide apologised for the delay, 
and for the inconvenience caused, and offered £250 compensation.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She was satisfied that the payments collected were 
correct, but thought Nationwide could have handled things better. Although she originally 
asked Nationwide to pay £150 compensation, after Nationwide pointed out that it had 
already offered £250, the investigator explained to Mr and Mrs B that she thought the £250 
was sufficient compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused to them.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a mistake has been made, we try to put the consumer back in the position theyd 
have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. In this case, the mistake wasnt that 
Nationwide took mortgage payments from both the old and new mortgages in June 2021; 
payment was due on the old mortgage as well as the new, and so there was no error by 
Nationwide. This means that I wont be asking Nationwide to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the 
payment they made towards their old mortgage in June 2021.
However, I appreciate that they wouldnt necessarily have known that the June payment 
wasnt rolled up into the total redemption figure, and I think this could have been clearer on 
the redemption statement. As a result, Mr and Mrs B hadnt budgeted for the mortgage 
payment on their old mortgage for June 2021.
I can understand how distressing this was for them. Moving home is a stressful and 
expensive experience, and so this additional expense was, I am sure, unwelcome. Although 
Mr and Mrs B say they experienced financial hardship, Ive not seen any evidence of this, 
such as bank statements showing they were overdrawn. Mr and Mrs B have also not 
provided any medical evidence to support their contention that they suffered months of ill 
health as a result of this experience.
Nationwide did take a little longer than expected to respond to this quite straightforward 
complaint, and because Mr and Mrs B were expecting (mistakenly) the mortgage payment 
made on their old mortgage to be reimbursed, this caused them some upset. In the 
circumstances, a payment for distress and inconvenience is warranted. I think the £250 
offered by Nationwide in its final response letter is fair, reasonable and proportionate and so 
I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as I am satisfied that 
Nationwide Building Society has already offered sufficient compensation of £250. I simply 
leave it to Mr and Mrs B to decide if they want to accept the £250 in full and final settlement 
of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman