DRN-2842823
The complaint
Mr K complains Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K took out a mortgage with YBS in 1987. It seems he didnt take out a PPI policy at this
time.
But in 1991 Mr K arranged a further advance on his mortgage and, at that point, took out
PPI. The policy wouldve given Mr K a monthly benefit of £410 a month for up to 12 months if
he made a successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. He paid a monthly
premium for the policy of just over £20.
In October 2007, Mr Ks PPI original policy was replaced by a new plan but YBS confirmed
his cover was classed as continuous. The monthly benefit stayed the same while the cost
increased to just over £21.
Mr K says he wasnt told he was buying PPI and hed have been better off financially not
paying the monthly premiums.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ks complaint upheld it. He didnt think YBS had made the
cost and benefits of the PPI clear enough to Mr K. And, if it had done, our adjudicator didnt
think that, in Mr Ks circumstances, hed have thought it was good value for him and so
wouldnt have taken the policy out.
YBS disagreed and so Mr Ks complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 
31 March 2021, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Mr K disagrees 
with my provisional decision. YBS hasnt responded to it.
Mr Ks complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I set out my reasons for doing 
so in my provisional decision in which I said:
based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I know this will 
disappoint him but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help him to understand my 
current thinking.
Mr K says he wasnt told he was buying PPI. I can understand why  almost 30 years on 
thats his recollection. But Ive seen a copy of the application form he filled in and signed
when he took out the further advance in 1991. There is a section about PPI on the form. This 
part has been ticked to confirm Mr K wanted the cover. I can also see the benefit amount 
has been handwritten and chosen as £410. Ive also seen extracts of a separate PPI 
application form Mr K signed  and this also includes the monthly benefit amount of £410.
This information leads me to think that, at the time, Mr K knew he was buying a separate PPI
policy when he took out his further advance. And I also think hed have known he had a
choice about the PPI. In part, I say this because Mr Ks mortgage had been in place for
about four years, seemingly without any PPI. But also, from the paperwork Mr K filled in in
1991, I think it was clear that, if he didnt want the cover, he could have left the section about
PPI unticked and it wouldnt have been added to his account.
So its not my current intention to uphold Mr Ks complaint for this reason.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ks complaint. But,
based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think there are. 
Mr K cant remember if YBS recommended the PPI to him. YBS said it didnt. From the 
(admittedly limited) paperwork Ive seen so far, theres nothing to suggest YBS made Mr K a 
personal recommendation to buy the cover. That means YBS didnt need to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for him. But YBS did need to give Mr K information about the 
PPI that was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make his own informed choice 
about whether or not he wanted to go ahead with it.
When our adjudicator looked at the terms of Mr Ks PPI policy and at what Mr K had told us
about his circumstances in 1991, he didnt think Mr K wouldve gone ahead with it if YBS had
made the cost and benefits of the policy clear. In saying this, our adjudicator noted Mr K told
us hed have got 12 months full pay if he was off work sick and had £10,000 to £15,000 in
accessible savings. He asked Mr K if he had evidence of his sick pay and savings in 1991.
Unsurprisingly, although Mr K could give us evidence of his sick pay and savings from more
recent times (from 2018 onwards for sick pay and from 2006 to 2008 for savings), he
couldnt give us anything from as far back as 1991.
Our adjudicator concluded Mr K already had a very substantial amount of cover in place
through his sick pay and savings and so wouldnt have found the policy good value. From
what Ive seen so far, I take a different view. I dont think the information I have is strong
enough for me to decide its more likely than not Mr Ks circumstances meant clearer
information wouldve stopped him going ahead with the PPI. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its reasonably clear to me  for the reasons Ive given  that Mr K wanted the cover,
knowing he didnt have to have it. And I think he wouldve made his decision to go ahead
with the PPI knowing that hed have got sick pay from his work and had savings (and
bearing in mind YBS didnt recommend the cover to him).
Secondly, although from what Mr K says his sick pay was unusually good, (understandably
given so much time has passed) he hasnt been able to give us any other information to
confirm it. Getting paid in full for 12 months of sickness is a very high level of benefit. But, in
any case, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months on top of Mr Ks sick pay. And it
wouldve paid out in the same way if Mr K lost his job  meaning he wouldnt have needed to
use his savings (the level of which he also hasnt been able to confirm for 1991) to pay his
mortgage.
Thirdly, a mortgage is a significant and long-term financial commitment. Its secured on yourhome, which is at risk if you fall behind on your repayments. So I think Mr K probably thought
it was prudent to take out the cover, despite his sick pay and savings. And, from information
YBS has sent us, it seems he made a successful claim  which I think shows the PPIs
usefulness to him.
From the limited information Ive got from the time of the sale, I dont know what steps YBS
took to make the cost and benefits of the policy clear to Mr K. YBS has sent us a policy
information booklet which shows you how to calculate the cost but I dont know if Mr K saw
this. So its possible this information wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, unlike our
adjudicator, and for the reasons Ive given, on balance I havent seen enough so far to make
me think clearer information wouldve changed Mr Ks decision to buy the PPI. So I dont
uphold Mr Ks complaint for this reason.
Ive also checked to see if Mr K was eligible for the cover  from what Ive seen, I think he
was. And I dont think he was affected by any of the policy limitations and exclusions that
mightve made it difficult for him to claim successfully. So I dont think there was anything to
stop Mr K getting the full policy benefit, if hed needed to  and, as Ive mentioned, it seems
he did make a successful claim.
So all in all, on balance  and based on what Ive seen so far  I dont think this PPI was
mis-sold.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr K about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
As Ive already said, Mr K disagrees with my provisional decision. Among other things, he 
says he was under pressure to sign for PPI and was presented with paperwork that wasn't 
explained to him. He said he hasn't changed companies so believes the sick pay he's 
provided evidence for would've been the same at the time of sale. He said that if the cost 
and benefit had been made clear to him he wouldn't have wanted to take out the policy.
Ive looked at all the points Mr K has raised on my provisional decision but they dont change 
my provisional conclusions, which now also form part of this final decision. I have some 
comments on some of the specific points Mr K has raised, which I hope explain why.
Apart from what Mr K says, Ive seen no evidence he was pressured into taking out the PPI. 
His recollections on this point arent detailed and (understandably after so long) hes given 
me nothing to back up this statement. So I dont have enough information to say YBS placed 
unfair pressure on him to take out the PPI  especially bearing in mind his mortgage was 
already in place when he took out the cover.
The information Mr K has given me about his sick pay is for 2018  over 25 years after he 
took out the PPI policy. Peoples workplace benefits change over time and often increase 
substantially based on years of service. So, without more information, I cant fairly and 
reasonably say Mr Ks sick pay in 1991 was the same as in 2018, even though he says he 
was working for the same company. 
And, as I also said in my provisional decision, even if Mr K did get unusually good sick pay, 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of it for up to 12 months. Taking into account the possible risks associated with having a mortgage (which Ive referred to in my provisional decision), I 
think this was likely to be a valuable benefit to Mr K. 
So Im still of the view that, had the cost and benefits of the PPI been made clearer to Mr K 
by YBS, he would still have gone ahead with it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I dont direct 
Yorkshire Building Society to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman