DRN-2911603
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial 
Services (Black Horse or the lender) was irresponsible to have agreed car finance 
for him in October 2016. Mr B also says that he was misinformed about the finance 
agreement.
 
What happened
Black Horse agreed credit for Mr B through an intermediary in October 2016 in order 
for him to acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £78,500. The total amount 
owing under the finance agreement (including interest and fees) came to £92,889. 
Mr B paid a deposit of £6,500, and the remainder was to be repaid over 47 monthly 
instalments of £1,113 with a final optional payment of £34,091 (Ive rounded figures 
to the nearest pound).
The finance was granted under an agreement which allowed Mr B the option to 
purchase the car with the final payment once hed met his monthly repayments. 
Black Horse remained the vehicle owner until that point and Mr B was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. He also had the option of voluntarily 
terminating the agreement at any point and returning the car. This option would 
limit Mr Bs total liability to half the amount owing, in other words £46,444, if hed 
taken reasonable care of the car.
Black Horse confirmed that Mr B made repayments until late 2018 and that, as of 
March 2021, the outstanding balance owing under the agreement was £60,796.28.
I understand that Mr B still has the car. This means Mr B has paid just over £32,000 
(at least, including his deposit) for the use of the car from October 2016.
Mr B says that Black Horse should not have agreed credit for him because at that time his 
income fluctuated and he had existing debts. He says that the appropriate checks were 
not carried out, for example Black Horse made estimates of his means when assessing 
his ability to meet his repayments and didnt take any future changes in his income into 
account. Mr B is also concerned that he was misinformed about the agreement because 
its titled hire-purchase which he understands to mean that he would own the car having 
made his repayments, rather than having the option to buy the car with a final payment.
Black Horse says that the agreement is a particular kind of hire purchase agreement 
which includes an option to return or purchase the goods at the end and doesnt consider 
that Mr B was given incorrect or misleading information about it. Black Horse says that it 
carried out reasonable checks and found that the credit was affordable and sustainable for 
Mr B at the time. The lender also says it believes it acted fairly in lending to him and it was 
later, unforeseeable events which led Mr B to raise a complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it be upheld. 
They found that proportionate checks were likely to have shown that the finance 
repayments were unaffordable for Mr B and so Black Horse was irresponsible to have 
agreed to lend to him.
In order to put things right the investigator recommended that Black Horse end the 
agreement and allow Mr B to return the car with nothing further to pay. They also 
recommended that Black Horse refund Mr Bs deposit (along with compensatory interest) 
but found that it was reasonable for the lender to retain all of the payments hed made as 
hed had the use of the car throughout.
Black Horse didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 May 2021 setting out why I thought Mr Bs complaint 
should be upheld. I wont set out the detail here as I have attached an extract from my 
provisional decision to this document. It sets out my reasoning on these points and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In summary, I provisionally concluded that Black Horse was irresponsible when it agreed 
credit for Mr B and should compensate him for this. I thought the fairest way to put things 
right for Mr B was for Black Horse to end the agreement and recover the car at no further 
cost to him. I also thought it was fair for Black Horse to keep all payments Mr B made, 
including his deposit, as a fair hire or usage cost for the car.
Mr B agreed with my provisional conclusions but disagreed with my view of how to put 
things right for him. Mr B says that he has had little or no use of the car during the national 
response to the pandemic because his work isnt deemed essential and he could work 
from home. Mr B also says that he didnt have the means available to return the car and 
settle his agreement. 
Mr B also says that when he took out the agreement he had a lump sum available for a 
deposit. This wont be the case now if he simply returns the car. While he appreciates that 
fair usage has to be accounted for, Mr B doesnt believe that he should be hurt financially 
and the weight of fairness should be in his favour if the complaint is being upheld. In 
summary, Mr B says Black Horse should refund his deposit along with compensatory 
interest
Black Horse didnt agree with my provisional findings but did agree with how to resolve the 
complaint. It said We welcome the change in decision at provisional stage confirming that 
there is no requirement to waive the £6,500 deposit in recognition of the fact that the 
customer had completed 80,000 miles over a 4 and  year period but even a usage charge 
of £580 per month is considered modest especially given the higher than average mileage 
and the prestige nature of the vehicle. 
Black Horse raised a number of points about my provisional findings. It said, in summary, 
that:
it complied with the regulations and is concerned that this Services approach seems 
to be that a lender should always check an applicants bank statements before 
agreeing credit;
its assessment was reasonable and proportionate;
the assessment didnt raise any concerns and showed that the credit would be 
affordable; 
further checks wouldnt have shown that the credit was unaffordable and a later 
income and expenditure analysis confirmed this, and
Mr B experienced an unforeseeable change in circumstances which caused him 
financial difficulty.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered what both parties have said in 
their responses to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that everything didnt go as it should have when 
Mr B applied for credit and, had it done so, its likely that Black Horse would have declined 
to lend to him. Neither party has provided any new information for me to consider but I will 
address their responses to my provisional decision.
Ill begin with the relevant regulations - these are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
consumer credit handbook and can be viewed online here according to timeline: 
www.handbook.fca.org.uk /handbook/CONC
Black Horse said in response to my provisional decision: You make reference to the fact 
that Black Horse cannot rely on CONC 5.2A.19G(1) which allows firms to use statistical data 
for non-discretionary expenditure as it was not in place at the time the agreement was taken 
out. Whilst we agree that this was the case, we do not believe that the previous CONC rules 
and guidance prohibited the use of statistical data and we believe the purpose of the CONC 
revisions was an enhancement to provide more clarity rather than being a fundamental 
change in the requirements.
Black Horse used statistical data to estimate Mr Bs living expenses and said that this 
complied with CONC 5.2A.19G(1). Id pointed out in my provisional decision, for accuracy, 
that CONC 5.2A.19G(1) wasnt in place at the time of the lending. On a further point of 
accuracy, this particular guidance says that a lender may rely on such datasets, but it may 
not be appropriate to do so in every case.
The guidance in place when Mr Bs agreement began doesnt specifically mention statistical 
datasets but does set out examples (CONC 5.2.4G (3)) of the types and sources of 
information lenders might use when assessing whether credit would be sustainable for an 
applicant which may, depending on the circumstances, include some of all of the following:
(a) [a lenders] record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
[Note: paragraph 4.12 of ILG]
Paragraph 4.12 of ILG  Irresponsible Lending Guidance from the previous regulator, the 
Office of Fair Trading  states explicitly that this isnt an exhaustive check list but, rather, a 
list of examples of the types and sources of information that may be appropriate, depending 
on the circumstances. In other words, the regulations arent prescriptive about what a lender 
should rely on but are clear that whatever the type or source of the information relied on, it 
must be proportionate to the circumstances. The circumstances being the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for the credit relative to the consumers financial situation 
(CONC 5.2.4G(2)) and so the same checks might not be appropriate for all consumers or 
indeed for all credit agreements. To be clear, my role here is limited to deciding whether Black Horse acted fairly and 
reasonably to Mr B when entering into this hire-purchase agreement with him. It isnt to 
assess the lenders model as a whole or to comment on the proportionality of its checks in 
other unrelated cases. In this case Black Horse checked Mr Bs ability to meet his 
repayments in a number of ways: it used a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) tool to check 
that the income level Mr B declared was viable; statistical data to estimate his living 
expenses (excluding mortgage/rent), and a CRA credit report to understand his existing 
credit commitments. It accepted the figure Mr B gave for his monthly commitment towards 
housing costs and asked about any other material costs.
As I explained in my provisional decision, bearing the above regulations in mind, I didnt 
think the checks Black Horse carried out were appropriate here because:
a) Black House should have been concerned that the only material monthly 
expenses Mr B declared were housing costs of less than £400 alongside a 
salary of £90,000;
b) Mr B was described as a Director on the agreement so I didnt think it was 
beyond reasonable for Black Horse to have asked about the nature of his 
employment;
c) The credit file information Black Horse obtained showed that Mr B had over 
£12,000 of existing debt. The report also listed a financial associate of Mr Bs 
with a large amount of debt, a significant proportion of which was unsecured, 
and
d) Mr B was taking on the considerable financial commitment of monthly payment 
of over 20% of his declared (net) monthly income over a period of four years.
Black Horse says that it didnt understand why a customer with a high income and modest 
housing costs should raise concern. Id said in my provisional decision that the only material 
monthly expenses Mr B had declared were housing costs, not that Mr Bs housing costs 
were modest. A later income and expenditure check revealed other monthly expenses.  
Black Horse says that even if it had discussed the nature of his employment with Mr B, it 
would not have led it to the conclusion his business might fail at some point. I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect Black Horse to carry out an analysis of Mr Bs business 
before agreeing credit for him, but I do think it flagged the possibility that Mr Bs income 
might fluctuate, that any bank deposits might not be net of tax payments and that he 
might be incurring business costs. 
Black Horse says that Mr Bs existing levels of debt werent significantly high relative to 
his salary and that it wouldnt be appropriate to consider the debts of a financial associate 
when making a lending decison. I can accept this point but, in this case, Mr Bs associate 
had £73,000 of unsecured debt across several accounts. Black Horse seems to accept 
that someone might not be named on a spouse or partners mortgage but typically make a 
contribution to this debt. I dont think it was unreasonable in this case, given the high 
amount of existing debt, to check whether the management of this associate debt 
impacted on Mr Bs expenses in any way.
 
Finally, Black Horse says that there is nothing in CONC or any other regulation which 
mandates that repayments of above 20% of monthly income should trigger a more in-depth 
assessment. As Ive mentioned, the relevant regulations clearly state that the risk of credit 
not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
the credit relative to the customers financial situation (CONC 5.2.4G(2)). It follows that more 
in-depth checks are likely to be appropriate where there is a greater risk of the credit not 
being sustainable and, clearly, this risk increases with the amount of credit borrowed. I consider that, at 22% of Mr Bs declared net income, this regular repayment was a 
significant commitment in this particular case where Mr Bs other declared or estimated costs 
(housing, existing credit repayments and living costs) each came to 10% or less of his 
declared monthly income. Furthermore, taking on this commitment would potentially bring 
Mr Bs total monthly debt repayments to about a third of his declared monthly income. 
Altogether, in these circumstances, I remain of the view that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Black Horse to have looked into Mr Bs finances in more 
depth before agreeing credit for him. There was a risk here that its assessment would 
underestimate the means Mr B had available to meet his repayments as they fell due over 
the lifetime of the agreement. As I explained in my provisional decision had it done so and, 
for example, gathered and verified more information about Mr Bs expenses, I think Black 
Horse would have learnt then that he wasnt likely to meet his repayments sustainably. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs bank statements and concluded that Mr B didnt have 
enough disposable income each month to meet the repayments. Black Horse disagreed 
with this analysis and said that it wasnt possible to determine affordability by simply 
reviewing the bank statements in isolation due to the size and volume of all transactions 
passing through. Id reviewed these bank statements and agreed that there were a high 
number of transactions. I didnt carry out a forensic income and expenditure analysis but 
could see, broadly, that Mr B didnt appear to have enough disposable income to meet his 
repayments. I also said that it was clear from the bank statements that the amount of 
money Mr B had access to varied considerably, for example he incurred unarranged 
overdraft fees in the months before the agreement despite the large deposits into his 
account. 
Black Horse said in response that We do not understand why the act of passing monies to 
the customers wife or a company would mean that these amounts should be disregarded for 
the purposes of assessing the customers net disposable income. The money could have 
been transferred to his wife for a range of reasons e.g. savings, discretionary expenditure or 
one off costs, so we are unclear why you see this as essential expenditure. It would not be 
practical or appropriate to decline a customers finance application simply because they are 
transferring some of their income to other parties.
I think it would be appropriate to quote from CONC here:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required ... a firm should 
take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the credit. CONC 
5.3.1G(1)
CONC 5.3.1G(6) states: 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; and(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
Paragraph 4.3 of the ILG states that The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this 
context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness;
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time; 
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
4.4 The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings; 
and
without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
I can appreciate that it might not be practical or appropriate to automatically decline credit to 
an applicant on the basis that they are transferring some of their income to other parties. 
However, it isnt the case here that Mr B was transferring some money to other parties  he 
was transferring most of the money coming into his personal account to his business or to 
his partner and doing so on a regular basis (the bank statements Ive seen cover about four 
months prior to the agreement). I dont know the specific purpose of all of these transactions 
but, clearly, they werent all one-off expenses and I think its unlikely Mr B was building up a 
pot of savings given his difficulties later on. 
Having carefully considered the matter again, I remain of the view that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would likely have shown that Mr B wasnt going to be able to meet a 
monthly payment of over £1,100 in a sustainable manner over four years and so I find that 
Black Horse was irresponsible when it agreed to lend to him. 
Black Horse says It is the change in the customers circumstances that could not have been 
foreseen at the point of sale which subsequently made the lending unaffordable. I do 
understand that Mr B experienced a financial shock when his business went into liquidation 
and, even without any previous difficulties, I can see why this would cause an obvious and 
immediate problem. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, from everything Ive 
seen I think its more likely than not that Mr B struggled from the outset to meet his 
repayments sustainably, which later events compounded.
Putting things right
Ive provisionally found that Black Horse was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr B, 
so he shouldnt lose out because of this by, for example, paying interest and charges on 
the money he borrowed. If Mr B was up-to-date with his repayments, it wouldnt be fair for 
Black Horse to keep everything hes paid because the monthly repayments include 
interest and charges. On the other hand, it wouldnt be fair to simply refund everything 
Mr Bs paid under the agreement because he has been able to use the money to hire the 
car for over four and a half years and, I understand, has driven it about 80,000 miles.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge might be. In deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case, I thought about the amount of interest 
charged on the agreement, Mr Bs overall usage of the car (including the mileage 
covered) and that he would have incurred costs to stay mobile if he hadnt entered into 
this agreement. Ive also considered that this was a new and relatively expensive model 
of car which Mr B, to paraphrase, considered aspirational.
As mentioned, Mr B hasnt met all his monthly repayments and as of March 2021 has 
paid about £32,000 to Black Horse in total, including his deposit. I dont know if Mr B has 
paid anything since March. So, from the information I have, this equates to about £571 a 
month to date, slightly less per month than it was at the time of my provisional decision. 
Id provisionally concluded that this was a fair usage charge in this case and so thought it 
fair for Black Horse to keep all of the payments Mr B made.
Mr B says that he hasnt needed to use the car to the extent he did at the outset of the 
agreement. While I appreciate that, I understand that he has managed to use it beyond 
what might be considered average mileage per year or indeed what was set out in the 
hire purchase agreement. Mr B has now had the use of the car for about 56 months and I 
remain of the view that its fair for Black Horse to retain all his payments to cover fair 
usage. 
As I dont think the agreement should have been entered into, I dont think it would be fair 
or accurate to record any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file. However, recording the 
agreement as satisfied isnt appropriate in this case either. This is because it will give a 
potentially misleading impression to future lenders that Mr B is able to adequately service 
an agreement of this size. I therefore think the agreement should be removed from his 
credit file entirely.
In summary, Black Horse should:
End the agreement with nothing more for Mr B to pay; and
Recover the car at no expense to him; and
Remove any information about this credit agreement from his credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I am upholding Mr Bs 
complaint against Black Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services and it 
needs to put things right for him as Ive set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Extract from Provisional Decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. These included, for 
example, the Consumer Credit Act 1974, its revisions in 2015 and the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which set the regulations and guidance 
for lenders such as Black Horse.
Before agreeing credit for Mr B, Black Horse needed to check that he could afford to 
meet his repayments sustainably, in other words out of his usual income and savings 
without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty. The checks 
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Bs circumstances, and 
Black Horse needed to take proper account of the information it gathered. Ultimately, 
Black Horse needed to treat Mr B fairly and take full account of his interests when 
making its lending decision.
Furthermore, the regulations in place at the time stated that a lender must take steps to 
ensure that the information it relies on, including information from the applicant, is 
complete and correct. They also state that is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely 
solely for its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure on a statement of 
those matters made by the customer.
In addition, as the owner of the vehicle bought from the dealership, Black Horse was 
responsible for any negotiations the dealership had with Mr B, including 
advertisements, before he entered into the agreement.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, I have considered 
the following questions:
was Mr B given clear, fair and not misleading information before he entered 
into the agreement with Black Horse?
did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Bs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
overall, did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?
Mr B says that that the sales process happened very quickly and that he wasnt given the 
information he should have been before he entered into the agreement. He explained that 
he went to browse the cars on display at the showroom with his family while on a day out 
and didnt intend to purchase a car. Mr B also says that the documentation from Black 
Horse shows that he had entered into a hire-purchase agreement which he understood to 
mean that he would own the vehicle outright at the end of the term having made regular 
payments throughout. In fact, the agreement gives Mr B the option to purchase the car 
with a final payment of over £34,000. So Mr B feels he was misled about the terms of the 
agreement and that it is possibly invalid.
Clearly, I cant know exactly what was discussed at the showroom before Mr B agreed to 
buy the car with finance from Black Horse or how the agreement was presented to him. I 
can understand why, considering how events unfolded, Mr B now feels he needed more 
time to consider whether or not to enter into the agreement and regrets that he fell for a 
sales pitch, as he put it. Ive seen a copy of the (electronically) signed agreement which sets out the relevant information about the monthly repayments and the optional final 
payment to purchase the car. So I think if Mr B wasnt expecting these terms or didnt want 
to accept such an arrangement he would have raised a query about it at the time.
However, I dont plan to consider this aspect of Mr Bs complaint further and havent made 
any finding on whether or not Black Horse got something wrong in this regard. As I will go 
on to explain, even if I concluded that everything happened as it should have at the point 
of sale, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint because I think Black Horse was irresponsible to 
have agreed credit for him at that time.
Black Horse says that it checked Mr Bs ability to meet his repayments in a number of 
ways. It used a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) tool to check that the income level Mr B 
declared was viable; statistical data to estimate his living expenses (excluding 
mortgage/rent), and a CRA credit report to understand his existing credit commitments. It 
accepted the figure Mr B gave for his monthly commitment towards housing costs and 
asked about any other material costs.
Black Horse said that The use of the model for essential living costs within the 
affordability assessment complies with CONC 5.2A.19G (1), which says for the purpose 
of considering the customers non-discretionary expenditure under CONC 5.2A.17R, the 
firm may take into account statistical data unless it knows, or has reasonable cause to 
suspect, that the customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly higher than that 
described in the data or that the data are unlikely to be reasonably representative of the 
customers situation.
With respect to Black Horse this particular guidance wasnt in place at the time the finance 
was taken out. As I mentioned above, the rules and guidance stipulated that Black Horse 
needed to check Mr B could meet his repayments sustainably and its checks needed to 
be proportionate. So Ive thought about whether its checks were sufficient in Mr Bs 
circumstances, and Ive concluded that there were indications in the information Black 
Horse had gathered that its estimation of Mr Bs available income was likely to fall short.
In the first instance, I think Black House should have been concerned that the only 
material monthly expenses Mr Bs declared were housing costs of less than £400 
alongside a salary of £90,000. I appreciate that Black Horse then estimated what Mr B 
spent monthly on repaying existing debt and covering living costs, though I cant see that 
it took steps to verify his housing costs. I note that Mr B is described as a Director on the 
agreement so I dont think its beyond reasonable for Black Horse to have asked about the 
nature of his employment. Ive also noted that the credit file information Black Horse 
obtained showed that Mr B had over £12,000 of existing debt. The report also lists a 
financial associate of Mr Bs with a large amount of debt, a significant proportion of which 
was unsecured.
Given this information and that Mr B was taking on a considerable financial commitment, 
I think a reasonable and proportionate response would have been to look into his 
finances in more detail to understand whether a payment of over 20% of his declared 
(net) monthly income would be sustainable for him over four years in his particular 
circumstances.
Mr B provided his personal bank statements covering about four months in 2016. Im not 
suggesting this is the information Black Horse ought to have relied on, but it gives a 
useful insight into Mr Bs finances at the time. Our investigator reviewed these and 
concluded that Mr B didnt have enough disposable income each month to meet the 
repayments. Black Horse disagreed with this analysis and said that while it noted that 
the credits to Mr Bs account indicated a salary even higher than the £90,000 Mr B had declared, it concluded that it wasnt possible to determine affordability by simply 
reviewing the bank statements in isolation due to the size and volume of all transactions 
passing through.
Ive reviewed these bank statements and agree that there is a high number of 
transactions. I can see about £39,000 deposits in over these months and about £34,000 
transfers out to two payees: Mr Bs wife and a company. Disregarding everything else, 
this doesnt leave enough for Mr B to meet his repayments each month. Its clear from the 
bank statements that the amount of money Mr B had access to varied considerably, for 
example he incurred unarranged overdraft fees in the months before the agreement 
despite the large deposits.Its also clear that Mr B had business interests and paid 
significant sums to his wife each month.
Mr B explained to this Service that he was the sole owner of a company at that time - 
he drew a salary of £1,000 a month (and provided income tax returns which support 
this) and he also took payment from the company by way of ad-hoc dividends to pay his 
bills. Mr B said his wife paid the mortgage and most of their bills and living costs, which 
at times included school fees for their two children. I understand that his business went 
into liquidation in early 2018.
Altogether, I dont think its likely that any further information about Mr Bs financial 
affairs would have reassured Black Horse that he would have been able to meet his 
repayments sustainably and so I think it was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to 
him when it did.
Black Horse says that about nine months after the agreement began Mr B told it he was 
experiencing cash-flow problems. The lender took an income and expenses statement 
from Mr B at that time, which showed a far lower disposable income than at inception. 
Black Horse says that Mr B still had sufficient disposable income to meet his repayments 
though I dont know what checks it did at that time to support its conclusion. Black Horse 
also says that while Mr B found it difficult to keep up his repayments when his company 
ceasing trading, he would have complained sooner if his difficulty paying was there from 
the start.
While I can understand the lenders perspective on this, Im afraid I dont agree with this 
conclusion. Successfully meeting his repayments doesnt automatically mean Mr B 
managed to do so without experiencing difficulty. Mr B says that he didnt raise a 
complaint sooner because he felt it was his fault that he wasnt able to manage the 
agreement. And, considering everything, I think its more likely than not that that is what 
happened here.
What Black Horse needs to do to put things right
Ive provisionally found that Black Horse was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr B, 
so he shouldnt lose out because of this by, for example, paying interest and charges on 
the money he borrowed. If Mr B was up-to-date with his repayments, it wouldnt be fair for 
Black Horse to keep everything hes paid because the monthly repayments include 
interest and charges. On the other hand, it wouldnt be fair to simply refund everything Mr 
Bs paid under the agreement because he has been able to use the money to hire the car 
for about four and a half years and, I understand, has driven it about 80,000 miles.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage charge might be. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the amount of interest 
charged on the agreement, Mr Bs overall usage of the car (including the mileage 
covered) and that he would have incurred costs to stay mobile if he hadnt entered into this agreement. Ive also considered that this was a new and relatively expensive model 
of car which Mr B, to paraphrase, considered aspirational.
As mentioned, Mr B hasnt met all his monthly repayments and as of March 2021 has 
paid about £32,000 to Black Horse in total, including his deposit. I dont know if Mr B has 
paid anything since March so, from the information I have, this equates to about £580 a 
month to date. I think this is a fair usage charge in this case and so I think its fair for 
Black Horse to keep all of the payments Mr B made.
As I dont think the agreement should have been entered into, I dont think it would be fair 
or accurate to record any adverse information on Mr Bs credit file. However, recording the 
agreement as satisfied isnt appropriate in this case either. This is because it will give a 
potentially misleading impression to future lenders that Mr B is able to adequately service 
an agreement of this size. I therefore think the agreement should be removed from his 
credit file entirely.
In summary, Black Horse should:
End the agreement with nothing more for Mr B to pay; and
Recover the car at no expense to him; and
Remove any information about this credit agreement from his credit file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I am planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint about Black 
Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services.
Ill wait a month to allow both parties time to comment on what Ive said and/or provide 
any new information for me to consider before making my final decision.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman