DRN-3792660
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited didnt 
invest his pension funds in the agreed manner and that hes suffered financial loss as a 
result.
What happened
On 18 March 2015, Chase de Vere recommended that Mr K switch his free standing 
additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan to a pension portfolio. Mr Ks money (after 
hed taken 25% from his pension pot as tax-free cash) would then be invested in a range of 
funds. The relevant forms were completed and the switch was completed on 2 April 2015.
On 10 April 2015 the pension provider (Aviva) called Chase de Vere to explain that all of 
Mr Ks money had been placed into a cash fund (rather than the investment funds) so as to 
prevent any delays in him receiving the tax-free cash. The pension provider told Chase de 
Vere that for the remainder of Mr Ks cash to be invested into the various funds it now 
needed to go into the post account and key in the investments.
Mr K spoke to Chase de Vere in March 2021 and it told him that over the last six years his 
money had only been invested as cash rather than in the investment portfolios. On 14 
March 2021 Mr K emailed Chase de Vere raising the lack of growth of his pension  
pointing out that approximately £57,000 was invested in 2015 and the balance had 
remained at approximately £57,000 since then (in essence, any growth of the investment 
had been cancelled out by the pension providers charges). Chase de Vere registered a 
complaint on its system.
Chase de Vere responded to Mr Ks complaint on 22 July 2021. In summary, it felt it had 
acted correctly and with due care as it had instructed the pension provider on where to 
invest Mr Ks money. And as Mr K had received regular pension statements in the 
intervening period which showed that his money had been held as cash, Chase de Vere 
felt the complaint had been made too late.
Mr K referred a complaint to us about Chase de Vere. We received it on 1 August 2021.
Chase de Veres position that Mr K had referred it to us too late was considered first by one 
of our investigators, and then, as Chase de Vere disagreed with his finding that the 
complaint was one we could consider, by an ombudsman.
That ombudsman concluded that Mr K had raised his complaint with Chase de Vere within 
six years of the event complained about, and so under the rules which govern our service, 
he said that we were able to consider the matter.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint, saying that he thought the 
complaint should be upheld. He set out the following in summary:
The documentation didnt suggest that Chase de Vere had made a mistake when 
submitting the transfer request.
However, Aviva had made it clear to Chase de Vere that it had retained the pension 
fund in cash whilst the tax free cash was paid, and that it would then need to enter 
the Post Retirement Account and manually enter the funds in which it wished Mr Ks 
pension to be invested. And Chase de Vere acknowledged this.
But Chase de Vere didnt take the required action. And although it hadnt agreed to 
assist Mr K beyond the initial transfer advice, it nevertheless had a responsibility to 
ensure that, once the transfer had completed, Mr Ks pension funds were invested as 
had been agreed with him.
Had it fulfilled that requirement, Mr Ks investment would have been made on 10 April 
2015.
The investigator recommended that, to put matters right, Chase de Vere should compare the 
notional value of Mr Ks Aviva pension plan, had it been invested as agreed, with its actual 
value. He also recommended that one of our benchmark indices be used if it wasnt possible 
to obtain the notional value of the plan.
If there was a loss, Chase de Vere should in the first instance pay this into Mr Ks pension 
plan, but if this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr K, with a deduction for the 
income tax hed pay on the amount. 
Further, although the investigator noted the corrective action Chase de Vere had taken on 
Mr Ks behalf since the issue had come to light, and that the financial impact to Mr K would 
be somewhat mitigated by him having other pension provision, he nevertheless considered 
that the trouble and upset caused to Mr K when he realised that his pension funds hadnt 
been invested since the transfer warranted an additional payment of £100.
Mr K agreed with the investigators assessment, but Chase de Vere submitted further points, 
as follows:
The proposal didnt take into account the statements Mr K had received from Aviva, 
which would have showed that his pension funds were held in cash.
Mr K had a degree of responsibility for what had happened as he should have acted 
when realising that his pension funds remained in cash.
The investigator reassessed his position in light of these comments and set out a further 
view on the matter as follows:
Chase de Vere was responsible for the initial mistake, but there was a well-
established principle that a complainant should take reasonable steps to limit the 
damage caused by the error.
The suitability report made it clear that Mr Ks pension would be invested in various 
investment funds, but the first annual statement received in June 2015 made no 
reference to this  rather, it showed that the entirety of the pension fund was invested 
in a cash account.
That statement, and the ones which followed, made it clear that Mr Ks pension 
hadnt been invested in the manner hed intended.
Mr K had said that the pension valuation in the first statement had been in line with 
his expectations and he hadnt realised the significance of the cash account. Hed been pleased that he hadnt lost money, given low global interest rates and low 
investment growth, along with the initial set up charges which would have been 
applied. Further, the content of the statements didnt change over time, so hed 
decided to let things run - and as it wasnt his only pension, he hadnt dedicated all 
his attention to it.
But whilst the investigator understood and acknowledged those points, the 
investigator said that the statements nevertheless made it clear that Mr Ks pension 
was invested in cash. And that Mr K had a responsibility to review his statements 
carefully.
Mr K should therefore have acted shortly after receiving his first statement from 
Aviva, and his pension would then have been invested as intended.
The investigator amended his redress proposal, saying that Chase de Vere should 
undertake a comparison between the notional value of his Aviva pension plan as at 17 July 
2015, as if it had been in the recommended investments since 10 April 2015, and the actual 
value of his pension plan at that date. 
Chase de Vere accepted the investigators revised view, but Mr K expressed 
disappointment, saying the following in summary:
He viewed the June 2015 statement as a stepping stone in the initial set up 
process, rather than any indication that an error had been made. Later statements 
were more comprehensive, with graphical presentation, which started to make him 
wonder why his investment had flat-lined. With hindsight, it was obvious as to why.
If hed been more diligent, he could have rectified the situation sooner, but this 
wouldnt have been apparent just a few months after the plan had been established.
The 2016 and 2017 statements reassured Mr K that all was as it should be  some 
growth, balanced out by fees and his understanding of global losses equating to 
either zero growth, or a loss.
He acknowledged that, after two or three similar statements, he should have realised 
the problem and acted, but whilst he could see that he had a degree of responsibility 
in the matter, he couldnt accept that Chase de Vere bore virtually none.
He enquired as to whether, if he had acted in 2016 or 2017, Chase de Vere would 
still only be responsible for the period up to July 2015.
Mr K suggested that a more equitable way of resolving the matter would be for the 
responsibility for any losses to be halved. 
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 24 October 2022, in which I set out my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. My findings from that decision are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to the investigator, and for some of the 
same reasons, but with a slightly different proposed outcome.Ive firstly noted the investigators comments about Mr K having had a responsibility to 
review his statements carefully, but from a perspective of mitigation of his position, Ive 
thought about how Mr K ought reasonably to have acted in the position of receiving the 
statements.
I think its noteworthy, and to his credit, that Mr K hasnt said that he didnt review his 
statements. Mr K has said that he was aware of their content but considered them, certainly 
for the first couple of years, to have been broadly consistent with his expectations.
I think the general principle of there being an expectation that an individual would take action 
to mitigate their position within a reasonable time period of when they became aware, or 
ought reasonably to have become aware, that there was a problem, is sound. 
A key consideration here is whether Mr K ought reasonably to have been aware that his 
pension funds werent invested as they should have been. And in thinking about this, as 
noted above, Mr K has told us that he did look at his statements. And so I dont think it would 
be an unreasonable expectation for Mr K to have become aware that there was a problem 
here  a position with which Mr K himself has agreed, albeit at a later point than that 
identified by the investigator.
But I do have some sympathy with Mr Ks comment that he appears to be assuming a large 
part of the responsibility for what was, in essence, Chase de Veres initial error. Had it not 
made the error, then Mr K wouldnt have needed to take corrective action. Further, I agree 
with Mr Ks position that he might have paid somewhat less attention to a statement which 
was produced in June 2015, this being only a few months after hed initially transferred his 
pension plan. A broadly unchanged pension fund value wouldnt by that point have seemed 
particularly untoward. 
But on the other side of the argument, and as with the investigator, I also take on board 
Chase de Veres comments that Mr K was, or ought reasonably to have been by virtue of 
seeing later annual statements, in a position to be able to mitigate his position.
Therefore, I broadly agree with Mr Ks proposal that a position of compromise might 
reasonably be reached here, but only to an extent. I think by the point of receiving the 
following years statement (so in 2016), Mr K ought to have been aware of there being no 
real change in the value of his pension fund  in his own words, the performance had flat-
lined, which is not a pattern of growth which would be expected from anything other than a 
cash fund - and that this might reasonably then have brought to his attention that his pension 
fund was invested in the cash account.
As such, I currently think a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for Chase de Vere to 
undertake the same calculation as directed by the investigator, but effectively one year later.
Putting things right
As with the investigator, my aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr K back into the 
position he would likely have been in, had it not been for Chase de Veres error. And this 
would have meant he invested in the same investments listed on his original application on 
10 April 2015.
Any loss Mr K has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of his 
pension plan from Aviva on the basis that it had been in these investments from 10 April 
2015 to 17 July 2016, and subtracting the actual value of the pension at that same date 
from this notional value. If the answer is positive, theres a loss, and this should be 
converted to a percentage of the fund value at the same date.That same percentage of loss should be applied to Mr Ks pension plan as at the date of 
any final decision along these lines. The resulting compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Mr K has already taken his full tax-free cash entitlement from this pension, so 100% of any 
loss would be taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So, making a notional reduction of 20% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Although Ive noted the investigators alternative suggestion of using one of our benchmark 
indices if it isnt possible to obtain the notional values set out above, I dont envisage that 
there would be any issue obtaining this from a provider such as Aviva. If Chase de Vere 
disagrees, Id be grateful to hear the reasons why.
As with the investigator, I think the realisation that his pension fund hadnt been invested 
as it should have been would have caused Mr K a not insignificant amount of worry and 
uncertainty.
As such, I think the further payment of £100 in respect of this is warranted here.
Both parties responded to say that they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions remain the same as those set out in the provisional decision, and for the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr K back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limiteds 
error. And this would have meant he invested in the same investments listed on his original 
application on 10 April 2015.
Any loss Mr K has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of his 
pension plan from Aviva on the basis that it had been in these investments from 10 April 
2015 to 17 July 2016, and subtracting the actual value of the pension at that same date 
from this notional value. If the answer is positive, theres a loss, and this should be 
converted to a percentage of the fund value at the same date.
That same percentage of loss should be applied to Mr Ks pension plan as at the date of 
this final decision. The resulting compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr 
Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Mr K has already taken his full tax-free cash entitlement from this pension, so 100% of any 
loss would be taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So, making a notional reduction of 20% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Payment of the compensation should be made within 28 days of Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited being notified of Mr Ks acceptance of this decision. 
If it isnt, interest at the rate of 8% simple pa should be added to the loss amount from the 
date of this decision to the date of settlement.
As with the investigator, I think the realisation that his pension fund hadnt been invested as 
it should have been would have caused Mr K a not insignificant amount of worry and 
uncertainty.
As such, I think the further payment of £100 in respect of this is warranted here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman