DRN-3553227
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it valued his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his car insurance policy and his car was deemed a total loss. And 
when Mulsanne looked to settle the claim Mr A wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. 
So, Mr A complained to Mulsanne about this.
Mulsanne looked to value Mr As car by looking at the various trade valuation guides in order 
to gauge the market value of his car. And as he wasnt happy it double checked its position 
and considered its engineers opinion as well. But ultimately it was satisfied that it had 
offered a fair market value for Mr As car. But Mr A still wasnt happy and thought his car was 
worth a lot more than Mulsanne had offered so he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He looked at the 
various motor valuation guides and got his own valuations of Mr As car. But he found that 
the valuations were generally in line with what Mulsanne had offered and so he thought it 
had acted reasonably in valuing Mr As car.
As Mr A didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr A, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr As position, as he clearly feels his car is worth more than Mulsanne 
has offered him. And he feels that the way Mulsanne has valued his car has left him out of 
pocket. But, as our investigator explained, this Service has an established approach to 
valuation cases like Mr As. When looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance 
company I consider the approach they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
It isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation of a consumers car. But we do 
look to see if insurers have acted reasonably in looking to offer a fair market value of the 
particular car. I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at 
any other evidence provided by both sides. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars. But I place less 
weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont normally sell for the price at which 
they are advertised, and the valuation guides give an up to date guide of the value of the car 
in question. The condition of the car at the time of the incident is also an important factor to 
consider. And I must emphasise that I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I 
consider it is unfair.
I know Mr A doesnt agree with this approach and feels his car is worth over £2,000 more 
than Mulsanne has offered. And while I understand his position, and the fact that the 
second-hand market is buoyant at the minute, Im satisfied Mulsanne has acted fairly. Ive 
looked at the various trade valuation guides and they are relatively consistent in suggesting 
a market value for Mr As car. And, given the very high mileage of Mr As car, Im sure it isnt 
easy to find a similar car with similar mileage to his. But that doesnt mean Mulsannes 
valuation and offer is unfair. Indeed, looking at the trade valuation guides from around the 
time of loss it seems to me that its offer is fair - even if Mr As car had an average mileage 
(and it has done nearly 100,000 miles more than this) the valuation guides suggest it would 
still be worth less than Mr A feels his car is worth. So, I cant say Mulsanne has acted 
unreasonably here. 
Valuing second-hand cars is far from an exact science and it isnt my role to value Mr As 
car. Im just looking to see if Mulsanne has acted reasonably in providing a fair market value 
of his car and I think it has. Mr A has made the point that second car valuations are rising 
and has provided some evidence that his car was well-maintained which I accept. But the 
trade guide valuations are from around the time of his claim and suggest a value for a car 
that has been well maintained. And Mr A would have had to undertake a lot of the work on 
his car just to keep it roadworthy in any event. So Im satisfied that he hasnt been prejudiced 
here and has been offered the market value of his car from around the time of claim. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied Mulsanne has looked to value Mr As car in a fair and 
reasonable way and looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. I note that Mr A has raised the point that Mulsanne took a small 
deduction from its valuation of his car in relation to pre-existing damage which he feels it 
shouldnt have. Insurers can make deductions for pre-existing damage so Mulsanne hasnt 
acted unreasonably here. However, the market value it offered is within the general range of 
the valuations this Service gained for Mr As car, so its overall valuation seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman