DRN-4439602
The complaint
X complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has mishandled their Section 75 claim
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 following the return of a mobile phone to a merchant
that they had purchased using PayPal. 
What happened
In May 2022 X purchased a mobile phone from a merchant that was based abroad. They
used their PayPal credit account to fund the purchase of £454.69 plus postage. They also 
had to pay import duty. 
X says that within two weeks the mobile developed an issue with the battery and became 
unresponsive, and they contacted the merchant. The merchant appeared to agree to refund 
the purchase price of the mobile if X returned it and paid the postage costs, which they did. 
However, the merchant, having received the mobile, said that no fault had been found and it 
offered to return it to X having set the mobile back to its factory setting. 
As there would be further costs incurred for X if the phone was returned to them, X declined 
the offer. X said they had lost confidence with the item and ask for a full refund 
The merchant said that as the mobile had been used it couldnt provide a full refund. 
Eventually it refunded X the total amount of £350.
X was unhappy at not receiving a full refund for the mobile as they had incurred additional 
costs such as the import charge. They made a claim to PayPal. PayPal rejected Xs claim 
under the PayPal Buyer Protection Program as it said this was a warranty matter and this 
wasnt covered by the program.
X made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Rights Act 1974 for the outstanding 
amount they said it had cost them to bring the mobile to the UK. 
PayPal opened a claim and requested various pieces of evidence to support the claim, in
particular PayPal requested X provided a copy of the merchants full terms and conditions  
and set out which term they considered had been breached.
PayPal says this evidence wasnt received and so it wasnt able to proceed with Xs section
75 claim. X complained and said they had provided all the required information. PayPal said
that the terms and conditions had never been received.
X complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint should
be upheld. He said he didnt think PayPal had treated X unfairly. Our investigator said that
the evidence didnt support that X had provided the necessary information for PayPal to
consider their section 75 claim.
PayPal said that as a gesture of goodwill it would reimburse X the £113.27 being the amount
outstanding of the cost of the phone. X has rejected that offer as they say they require the
full amount that was outstanding and Pay Pal has acted unfairly when dealing with their 
claim.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
Id seen that X tried to resolve the matter with the merchant first but, having returned the
mobile to them, they said they couldnt find a fault with the phone. The merchant at first
offered to refund 50% of the mobiles cost but eventually reimbursed X £350 which was
around 75% of the cost.
This left X out of pocket as there was £104.69 outstanding of the actual cost of the phone
and £8.58 plus 24.77 USD for shipping together with the cost of the import duty for the 
phone amounting to £96.35.  
PayPal originally informed X that it couldnt provide them with a refund as the mobile phone
was covered by a warranty and so it didnt full within the Buyer Protection Program, and they
would need to resolve the matter with the merchant. Looking at the program and what it will
and wont cover, I couldnt reasonably say that PayPal had acted unfairly in reaching that
decision.
X was unhappy and made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The
general effect of section 75 is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit
agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods
or services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against
the credit provider which here is PayPal. It is for the consumer to provide evidence of their
claim.
My role was to decide whether PayPal had acted fairly and reasonably in its response to Xs
claim. Id seen that it had requested X provide evidence to support their claim which included 
a statement as to what happened, a copy of the merchants terms and conditions and a
statement from X clearly identifying which term had been breached and supporting evidence
of the breach of contract.
PayPal said X didnt provide the necessary evidence for it to be able to process their claim.
X said they had provided the requested information. But looking at the chat transcripts that 
had been provided as to the messages exchanged between X and PayPal, I disagreed,
particularly in respect of the merchants terms and conditions and proof the mobile phone
had been faulty. Id seen X had provided a link to the merchants refund and cancellations 
terms and some screenshots, but they hadnt provided the full terms and conditions as 
PayPal had asked. They also hadnt provided any report as to the fault with mobile and Id 
seen that the merchant had disagreed there was anything wrong with it, stating they had 
been able to turn it on and charge it.
I appreciated that X had sent this service a handwritten invoice from a mobile phone shop
dated June 2023 stating a mobile phone of the same make purchased by X had been seen 
and found to be dead as the lojic board was dead CPU not booting up. Due to the date
of the report  many months after the mobile had been returned to the merchant  our 
investigator had said he couldnt give weight to it as establishing the mobile had an inherent 
fault.
X had then provided an amended invoice which had a handwritten comment on it that the
mobile had been brought into the shop in June 2022. The invoice was unsigned but had a
stamp showing the shops name, address and contact details.
However, although X had got the invoice amended, I was still not able to give it any significant weight as to proof the mobile had had an inherent fault as there were no details 
given as to the tests that had been carried out nor how this fault had arisen. It was possible 
that such a problem could have been due to another cause other than a manufacturing 
issue. So, I didnt think it established the mobile phone was of unsatisfactory quality at its 
point of supply to X. 
I didnt think PayPal had acted unfairly in saying it was unable to proceed with Xs section 75 
claim as they hadnt been provided with the required documentation.  However, PayPal had, 
as a gesture of goodwill, offered to reimburse the outstanding balance of the mobile phone 
to X. And I didnt think this gesture was an acknowledgement by PayPal that it had done 
anything wrong in respect of Xs claim, rather it was a decision made in respect of providing 
customer service to them. I thought this was a fair offer to X and, having been made, I was 
going to ask PayPal to reimburse X the amount of £113.27 in respect of the mobile phone.
I appreciated this offer would still leave X out of pocket in respect of the import duty they had 
paid plus the cost of returning the mobile phone to the merchant, but I was not going to ask 
PayPal to pay these amounts. I hadnt made any findings as to whether these outstanding 
expenses would be considered as a consequential loss for X as I didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to find a breach of contract. And without a breach of contract being 
established, I didnt think it was fair for PayPal to cover these additional expenses.
I was therefore intending to partially uphold Xs complaint in that I was asking PayPal to 
reimburse them the cost of the phone, but Im not going to ask it to pay the remaining 
amount in respect of the shipping and import duty.
PayPal hasnt asked me to look at any part of my decision again, but X has raised a number 
of areas he said were inaccurate in the background and also raised other issues they would 
like me to consider. X disagrees with my provisional view.
X says that the background I set out in my provisional decision wasnt accurate enough in 
places and while I have made some amendments, I havent made all the changes they 
raised. This is because the background is only a summary and not everything that happened 
needs to be recorded. I do however apologise for the error I made in respect of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Im satisfied the background now sets out sufficiently what 
happened here.
X also says they had provided the requested information by PayPal and are concerned that I 
didnt see all the messages that went between them and PayPal. 
X has queried my approach to the invoice they had provided from the mobile phone shop. 
They say our investigator hadnt said that the mobile phone needed to have been tested to 
show the cause of the fault only that the report should confirm there was a fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have said above, I have made some amendments to the background I had given in my 
provisional view. In particular this concerned the amount that was outstanding to X having 
returned the mobile phone to the merchant. I also accepted that the merchant had said 
initially they would provide a refund once the mobile had been returned but then said as they 
could find no fault, they wouldnt do so. Although the merchant had given X the impression 
they would refund them this wouldnt mean that PayPal would be bound by that. It was 
reasonable for PayPal to have considered Xs claim under both its Buyer Protection Program and then later section 75.
In respect of my view as to the invoice provided by X from the mobile phone shop, I dont 
accept I have been biased as suggested by X. I have seen in the original view provided by 
our investigator that he set out he had asked for an independent report confirming the 
problems with the mobile phone. Our investigator said as the mobile hadnt been inspected, 
he didnt think there was evidence that the mobile phone hadnt been of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to X.
Following that view, X had then contacted our investigator and explained that unbeknown to 
them their partner had taken the mobile phone to a shop to be looked at. Listening to the 
phone call between our investigator and X, our investigator said that X should, if possible, 
provide a copy of the report from the shop setting out what they did and what their findings 
were, and he would then consider it. 
As explained above, when the invoice was first received our investigator said he wasnt able 
to accept it due to the date recorded on it, as he couldnt say it showed any assessment had 
been carried out on the mobile phone. X then provided an amended copy. But I havent 
changed my view that this amended invoice didnt show there was an inherent fault with the 
mobile phone. And I think my approach to this invoice has been in keeping with that of our 
investigator in that an independent report should set out what the cause of the fault was. I 
still dont think I have sufficient information that the mobile phone was of unsatisfactory 
quality at its point of supply to X.
I have seen a number of chat scripts between X and PayPal from January, February and 
June 2023 and that PayPal has confirmed it didnt receive the terms and conditions of the 
contract with the merchant in the required documentary form. It wasnt able to accept the 
screenshots X provided. And while I accept this is frustrating for X, I cant say PayPals 
process of requesting this documentation as it did was unreasonable. And even though I 
may not have seen all the contact between the parties I accept PayPals evidence that it 
hadnt received the merchants terms and conditions as required. I havent seen any 
evidence they were sent by X other than in the form of snapshots and a link. As explained it 
is for X to establish that there has been a breach of contract when making a section 75 claim 
and I think PayPals decision that they hadnt provided sufficient information for it to consider 
a claim under section 75 was reasonable. PayPal hasnt actually declined the claim.
However, PayPal has now offered to reimburse X the amount of £113.27 being the 
outstanding cost of the mobile phone. I think this is fair and reasonable, particularly as X was 
struggling to provide the necessary documentation to PayPal. So, Im going to ask it to make 
that payment to them. But, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to X, Im not 
going to ask PayPal to reimburse them the additional costs they had incurred, as set out 
above, I cant reasonably say the mobile phone had an inherent fault.
For the reasons given Im partially upholding Xs complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above Im asking PayPal to reimburse X the amount of £113.27 in 
respect of the mobile phone.
My final decision
As set out above, Im partially upholding Xs complaint. Im asking PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA to reimburse X the amount of £113.27 in respect of the mobile phone which
they had returned to the merchant.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman