DRN-3902961
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy and that it has delayed providing her with a replacement car. She wants a 
car and compensation for the delay, inconvenience and lack of a car. 
What happened
Miss Bs car was damaged in an accident and Aviva deemed it to be a total loss. After some 
dispute, Aviva agreed that Miss B was entitled to a new replacement car under her policys 
terms and conditions. Aviva also agreed that this had caused seven weeks delay in settling 
her claim and it paid Miss B £550 compensation for this. But there were then delays in 
providing a replacement car. Aviva said this was due to the manufacturer and suppliers and 
so it was out of its control. But Miss B was unhappy that she was without a car. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
had caused the initial delays, but he thought its payment of compensation for this was fair 
and reasonable. He didnt think Aviva was responsible for the later delays as they were 
unavoidable and out of its control. And he thought Aviva had told Miss B about the different 
options available to her.
Miss B replied that a replacement car had been available in October 2021, but she had 
declined to pay the £3,000 difference in price that Aviva required. Miss B said Avivas offer to 
pay her the cars market value wouldnt be fair as she wasnt at fault for the accident. She 
said she had made eight months finance payments which wouldnt be recovered if she 
accepted a cash payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss B was without a replacement car for over a year. I can understand that 
this must have been very frustrating and inconvenient for her. Our approach in cases like 
this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably.
Miss B made two complaints in regard to how Aviva handled her claim. And I can see that 
she has now made a further complaint about the replacement car. But Im unable to consider 
that here as Aviva has yet to provide Miss B with its response. So Ive considered here how 
Aviva have responded to Miss Bs first two complaints. 
Miss Bs first complaint was in regard to her entitlement to a replacement car under her 
policys terms and conditions. Aviva agreed that its errors had caused seven weeks 
avoidable delays in the claim, and it paid Miss B £550 compensation for this. Miss B 
accepted this offer. And I think its fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published 
guidance for the impact its errors had.
Miss Bs second complaint was about the delay in providing her with a replacement car. She 
was told that the estimated delivery date was February 2022. This passed without a new car 
being provided. Aviva said this was due to international manufacturer and supplier issues. 
And this was out of its control. But it did offer Miss B the option of accepting a cash 
settlement for her claim. 
Miss B said Aviva could have provided her with a replacement of a similar car in November 
2021. Miss B said she had been willing to accept this even though the car was of a lesser 
specification than hers. But this replacement car had more expensive paintwork and Aviva 
said that Miss B would need to pay £3,000 if she wanted this car. Miss B declined this offer. 
She said it was unfair for Aviva to ask for the additional payment as her car had been bought 
for a discount.  
I can see that on page 7 of the policy booklet, Aviva states:
We will replace your vehicle with one of the same make, model and specification (providing 
one is available in the UK)
So the price that Miss B paid for her car isnt relevant. The car that Miss B thought was 
suitable was of a different specification due to the paintwork. So I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to ask her to pay the cost of the betterment. And I can see that Miss Bs 
finance company agreed to accept a like for like replacement. So I cant say that Aviva did 
anything wrong in this. 
Miss B declined to pay the extra. And so the further option available in the policys terms and 
conditions was for Aviva to pay her the cars market value:
If  you do not wish us to replace your vehicle with a new vehicle of the same make, model 
and specification, the most we will pay will be the market value of your vehicle at the time of 
loss or damage.
Miss B wanted a new car. She wasnt choosing not to have the new car replacement. It was 
Aviva which couldnt provide it. Our approach is that we think it would have been unfair for 
Aviva to offer Miss B just the cars market in these circumstances.
We often think the fair and reasonable answer is for the insurer to pay the policyholder what 
it will cost the policyholder to buy an equivalent new car replacement rather than what it 
would cost the insurer to provide the new car replacement.
Looking at its file, I think Aviva predicted there would be a long delay in sourcing a 
replacement car for Miss B, and it told her this. And it offered her the option of accepting a 
total loss payment instead. This was in the form of an early settlement figure paid to her 
finance company. I think this is in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And so I 
cant say that it should have offered Miss B the cost of buying a new car replacement. 
But Miss B declined the offer of the cars market value as she thought she would lose out. 
Miss B said this was unfair as she wasnt at fault for the accident. But this isnt something I 
can hold Aviva responsible for. I think it offered her the two options in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. And so I cant say that it did anything wrong in this. 
I can see that Aviva instructed a company to find a replacement car for Miss B. And a 
replacement couldnt be found until recently. Im satisfied that this long delay was due to 
matters outside Avivas control. And so I cant hold it responsible for these unavoidable 
delays in settling Miss Bs claim. 
During this time, Miss B was largely without a car. The other insurer provided a courtesy car 
for a month. But Miss B wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under her policys terms and 
conditions as she had opted for new car replacement. So I cant say that Aviva was 
responsible for her lack of transport whilst it was looking for a new car for her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman