DRN-2020363
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that there was a delay in receiving his pension payment from
ReAssure Limited.
What happened
Mr R had a pension fund with ReAssure. He decided he would like to withdraw the full
pension fund and have it paid into his bank account.
Mr R phoned ReAssure and asked to withdraw his funds. Over the following days Mr R
made several phone calls to ReAssure as the funds hadnt been deposited into his bank
account.
Mr R also visited his bank branch on several occasions to make enquiries into where the
funds were as, after 14 days, his funds had still not been received. Mr Rs bank said the
funds had not been received from ReAssure. So, Mr R complained to ReAssure that he still
hadnt received his funds.
ReAssure says that the following day, whilst making enquiries to trace the funds, Mr R
informed them the funds had been received into his account.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, ReAssure said the funds had been released to Mr Rs
bank several days earlier. Mr Rs bank had denied receiving the funds and suggested it had
sent the funds back to ReAssure. But this wasnt the case and the funds had been held by
Mr Rs bank, which led to a delay. ReAssure invited Mr R to bring his complaint to our
service if he wasnt happy with their response.
Mr R remained unhappy as he felt ReAssure had told him that the funds would be in his
account sooner than they were. This led to Mr R feeling stressed and inconvenienced. And it
meant he missed out on a purchase that he wanted the funds for.
I sent Mr R and ReAssure my provisional decision on 1 June 2020. I explained that I didnt 
think ReAssure had delayed making the payment to Mr R. And the timeframes it had 
provided Mr R were based on the information it had at the time. So, I didnt think ReAssure 
needed to compensate Mr R for the delays he faced. Ive copied my provisional findings 
below. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
The issue to decide here is whether ReAssure delayed the payment to Mr R and whether it
gave Mr R misleading information.
It was recorded that Mr R asked for his pension funds to be transferred to his bank account.
ReAssure have sent us evidence to show that they requested the payment be made via
telegraphic transfer two days later. Telegraphic transfer is a system used to transfer funds
between bank accounts. The transfers are usually completed within a few days.
But on this occasion, it took roughly 13 days for the funds to reach Mr Rs account.
ReAssure told us that their bank held the funds for five working days whilst checks were
completed. And Mr Rs bank have also told us that the funds were held for four working days
whilst they completed checks too, before being deposited in Mr Rs account.
I can appreciate this delay must have been frustrating for Mr R, especially as he was relying
on the funds to make a purchase. But, this complaint is against ReAssure and I dont think
they knew that either of the banks had held the funds whilst checks were being completed.
ReAssure said that they would send the funds to Mr R by 16 September and the evidence
shows that they requested the funds be sent on 13 September. Therefore, I dont think
ReAssure were responsible for the delays Mr R faced and so, Im not minded to ask them to
compensate Mr R for the delays.
Our investigator felt that ReAssure gave Mr R inconsistent information and Mr R was caused
inconvenience by having to go to his bank. But I dont think the information ReAssure gave
Mr R was incorrect. Ill explain why.
Mr R phoned ReAssure after making his original withdrawal request to check everything was
in order and asked when he should expect to receive his payment. ReAssure have supplied
the call recording that shows Mr R was told that if the payment was made early the following
morning it may reach his account that day, but the payment may not be made until the
following Monday and may need time to clear. Whilst the money did not appear in Mr Rs
account when ReAssure said it would, I dont think this was ReAssures fault.
ReAssure sent Mr R a letter the following Monday. The letter confirms that Mr Rs pension
has been cashed in and the money would take three to five days to clear. I can appreciate
that this information differs slightly to what Mr R was told on the phone several days earlier.
However, the letter doesnt clarify that the funds were sent the previous Friday. And on the
phone Mr R had been told the funds may need time to clear.
Our investigator felt that ReAssure shouldnt have sent this letter, as the money shouldve
reached Mr R by the time hed received the letter. But I dont think the letter gave a
significantly different timeframe then Mr R had already been told. And I dont think ReAssure
treated Mr R unfairly by confirming in writing, what was said on the phone several days
earlier.
Mr R made several calls to ReAssure and visited his bank. The call logs show ReAssure 
rechecked Mr Rs bank details on several occasions as well as assuring Mr R that the funds
were sent when they said they were. ReAssure also asked Mr R to check with his bank. I
appreciate that Mr R was inconvenienced by attending his bank branch, which denied having
received the funds. But I dont think this was an unreasonable request, as ReAssures
records showed that they had made the payment and it appears they also tried to trace the
funds.
Mr Rs bank denied having received the payment, but later said it had held them for five
days. ReAssure arent responsible for the information Mr Rs bank gave him and I think they
gave what they believed to be honest answers for how long it should take for the funds to be
received. Had Mr Rs bank not held the funds, ReAssure wouldve met the timescales theyd
already given Mr R.
In conclusion, Im not minded to uphold this complaint, as I dont think ReAssure delayed
making the payment to Mr R. Although there was a delay in the money reaching Mr Rs
bank, it was still within the timeframe that ReAssure had advised. And I think the information
ReAssure gave Mr R was based on the usual time frames involved in transfers of this
nature. So, I dont think the information they supplied was misleading. For these reasons, Idont think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to do anything more to compensate Mr R.
The responses to my provisional decision
Reassure has accepted my provisional decision.
Mr R was contacted but he didnt provide any further comments or submissions for my 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have made any further comments or submissions for me to consider. So, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. Therefore, my 
decision remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman