DRN-4522051
The complaint
Mr H complains about the price charged by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) to renew 
his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H received a quote to renew his policy which he says was significantly higher than what 
hed paid the previous year. Mr H says he started getting concerned about the price increase 
each year, and he complained following receipt of the most recent renewal quote. Mr H says 
he has been a longstanding and loyal customer of AXA for over 40 years and believes hes 
being penalised as a result of this by AXA applying price increases at every renewal. 
AXA responded and explained they could see Mr H had called in to discuss the price 
increase and the call handler explained the reasons behind the price increase, which 
included the global level of cover, underwriting applied and the variety of outpatient, day 
patient and inpatient treatments covered within Mr Hs comprehensive level of cover. They 
said the call handler also confirmed the price increase was only linked to certain medical 
advancements and age. AXA explained the call handler proposed some solutions to bring 
the price down, this included applying an excess of £2,000 to the policy or downgrading the 
policy from a comprehensive to standard package. AXA acknowledged Mr H declined these 
proposals during the call. AXA referred Mr H to the section of the policy booklet which 
explains why premiums increase each year. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought AXA hadnt treated Mr H unfairly in 
relation to the pricing. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr H paid a premium of £6,915.39 for his policy in 2020 and this has increased 
each year to 2023 when he was charged £10,484.99. So, I understand why Mr H is 
concerned about the price increase. AXA have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr Hs price increases were calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with Mr H because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, 
Im satisfied the price Mr H has been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and 
Ive seen no evidence that other AXA customers in Mr Hs position will have been charged a 
lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about AXAs risk model, but I can see two 
factors which have impacted the price each year is an inflationary increase and also Mr Hs 
age. Its not unusual or uncommon for these factors to be taken into account when an 
insurer is pricing a policy and for it to affect the price. In this case, Ive seen how these 
factors impacted the price, so I cant say AXA have treated Mr H unfairly in applying any 
ratings and loadings to account for this. 
Ive also looked at Mr Hs policy booklet, which sets out the terms and conditions. And the 
two factors Ive mentioned being taken into account and impacting the price, are consistent 
with what the terms and conditions say. Theres a section in the policy booklet which talks 
about why premiums increase each year, and it says premiums will tend to rise as a 
customer gets older. It says this is because the older a customer gets, the more likely theyll 
suffer health issues. It also refers to the cost of medical treatment increasing. Its been 
widely publicised that premiums are increasing across the insurance industry due to claims 
inflation and the rising cost of services that an insurer pays for when settling a claim.     
Mr H may feel this is unfair, particularly as he says the price increases each year. But its for 
a business to decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to 
those risks - different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering 
a higher premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  
but rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk. 
I can see Mr H refers to the price increase in the 2023 renewal as being the straw that 
broke the camels back. I can see that was because the premium represented a 18.8% 
price increase from the previous year. As mentioned, Ive seen the factors which have 
impacted the price  and I cant say AXA have treated Mr H unfairly. But it might help to 
explain this increase was higher than previous increases because AXA have shown they 
applied a discount to the 2022 premium, and this came off in the 2023 renewal which is why 
the difference, in percentage terms, was greater between the 2022 and 2023 policies. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs concerns about the price increases and also his frustration when AXA 
explained they werent able to reduce the price for the level of cover Mr H was wanting. That 
said, I do think they took appropriate steps in trying to help Mr H by discussing proposals 
which would reduce the price. I can see the proposals offered are in line with the terms and 
conditions which refer to ways in which a customer can reduce their premium  and this 
refers to adding an excess or changing the level of cover. I acknowledge Mr Hs reasons for 
declining this, but I think AXA did take reasonable steps in proposing these as a solution to 
try and bring the price down.  
 
I do appreciate Mr H will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the price increase and he feels any details about his dealings with AXA and claims history 
should be disclosable. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an 
insurers explanation will often be commercially sensitive. I do think its important to make 
clear, its not details of Mr Hs claims history which is commercially sensitive  its the ratings 
and loadings applied to this factor. So, I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably in not 
providing this level of detail to Mr H. 
Its clear from Mr Hs communication with AXA and our service, he believes the increase in 
price is down to the length of time he has been a loyal customer of AXAs. I can see AXA 
say the length of time a customer has been with them doesnt affect the price. Looking at the 
factors which have impacted the price increases, I agree with AXAs point here. Theres 
nothing in the pricing factors which suggest continuous years of loyalty generate a rating or 
loading affecting the price. I can see Mr H provides his circumstances as an example and compares this with a 
hypothetical scenario of a customer the same age, and who has been with the same insurer 
for three years, and who joined with no pre-existing conditions  like Mr H did over 40 years 
ago. Mr H says, following his research, he has found the customer who has been with the 
same insurer for three years would likely pay a premium between £1,500 to £2,000. As Ive 
mentioned above, different insurers will apply different ratings and loadings  this depends 
on their risk appetite. In this case, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me Mr Hs 
policy has been priced differently to any other customer in the same circumstances, and on 
a like for like basis. So, I cant say AXA have treated Mr H unfairly. I do acknowledge Mr Hs 
concern here, but I wish to reassure him Ive checked the pricing information carefully, and I 
havent seen any evidence the continuous years of loyalty has been rated and has featured 
in AXAs pricing model.    
I understand why Mr H has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
pricing information from AXA. But I cant say theyve made a mistake or treated Mr H 
unfairly. I wish to reassure Mr H Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman