DRN-4044886
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc  trading as first direct (first direct) blocked access to 
his online and mobile banking.
What happened
Mr T called first direct on 5 January 2023. He wanted to increase the monthly transfer to his 
regular saver account from £25 to £300. He had forgotten his telephone password and failed 
security checks. First direct blocked his mobile and online banking until he passed the 
security checks later. He contacted first direct later the same day and using chat messaging, 
set up the increased monthly transfer. On 17 January 2023, Mr T called first direct again and 
they then set him up on voice ID.
Mr T complained. He said that as a Registered Vulnerable Person, he shouldve been 
treated differently. Because first direct blocked access to his accounts they made him feel 
like a criminal. He said first directs processes arent fit for purpose for dealing with people 
with his disabilities.
First direct said customers must be verified by successfully stating two letters of their 
telephone banking password, plus one of additional five security questions. If any of the 
password letters, or the security question is answered incorrectly, there are additional 
security processes in place to ensure theyre speaking to the right person.
First direct said that if security checks cant be completed, access to a customers account 
via telephone or internet banking is stopped until the checks can be completed. They said 
they take customer security seriously, and there wasnt any intention to make Mr T feel like a 
criminal.
Mr T brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said first direct acted reasonably. The 
security checks are in place to  protect all parties. He said first direct followed their 
processes and implemented the checks and subsequent blocking of Mr Ts online services 
correctly.
Mr T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint So, it has come to me 
to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I listened to the calls between first direct and Mr T. On 5 January 2023, he asked to increase 
the monthly transfer to his regular saver account to £300 from £25. But  he said hed 
forgotten his telephone banking password and when asked for a letter he answered it 
incorrectly. The call handler said she would have to transfer him to another department for 
them to verify his identity. She said his access to mobile and internet banking would be 
suspended until he could be verified. She asked him if he wanted to do that (i.e. be 
transferred and have his account blocked as a consequence).
At that point, Mr T became agitated and said that first direct made him feel like a criminal  
because of first directs proposed actions in blocking access to his account. He asked to be 
put through to the complaints team, who werent available. He then ended the call. First 
direct then blocked his access to mobile and internet banking.
I looked at first directs processes for when a customer fails security checks in this way. 
These say that if a customer consents to be passed to another area for verification  and 
agrees to online and mobile banking to be blocked, then to proceed on that basis.
But in this case  Mr T didnt want his account access to be blocked, he said I dont want to 
lose all banking facilities... He asked if he could do it (i.e. the transfer changes) via the 
app. We asked first direct why the account access was blocked  as Mr T didnt want that to 
happen. 
I wanted to check if Mr Ts mobile banking and online banking had to be blocked after he 
failed the security checks. In other words  could he have ended the call and continued as if 
he hadnt contacted first direct? We asked first direct more questions about this. They told us 
that once Mr T (or any customer) failed the security checks, then mobile and online banking 
is blocked  until the security checks are passed. They do this to ensure theres no 
unauthorised access to Mr Ts (or any other customers) accounts. First direct said security 
of customers account is very important  which I think is reasonable.
In the event, Mr T increased the monthly transfer via webchat later the same day  so the 
matter was sorted out. And on 17 January 2023, Mr T called first direct and at their 
suggestion, they set him up on voice ID. We asked first direct if this couldve been done on 
the earlier call, on 5 January 2023. But it couldnt - as to do so, he needed to be verified on 
telephone banking first. And on that call, Mr T didnt want to be passed through to another 
representative who couldve taken him through security.
Ive gone on to consider whether first direct shouldve treated Mr T differently because he is 
a vulnerable customer.  But I dont think they should have  because the intention was to 
protect Mr Ts accounts from being accessed by someone else, for example - a fraudster. I 
dont think its appropriate for me to say that, for example, first directs security checks 
should be relaxed because Mr T is vulnerable  that wouldnt be a fair and reasonable thing 
to decide.
Therefore, while I can understand Mr Ts frustration at what happened, I am not upholding 
his complaint and first direct dont need to do anything here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman