DRN-2538778
The complaint
Mrs L says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans that Mr Lender provided to Mrs L - heres a table setting 
out details: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 10/07/2018 28/01/2019 6 £300.00 £114.00
2 26/03/2019 02/05/2019 6 £500.00 £199.33
3 08/10/2019 03/03/2020 12 £1,000.00 £222.83
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. 
Mrs L disagreed. She mainly says that if Mr Lender had carried out the checks she feels it 
should have done, this wouldve been enough for it to decline her loan applications. In 
support of her complaint shes sent us her credit report and bank statements which show 
what her financial situation was at the time when Mr Lender provided these loans. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ls complaint. 
Before lending to Mrs L, Mr Lender asked Mrs L for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings, and it carried out credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Mr Lender to lend to 
Mrs L.
loan 1
When Mrs L took out her first loan I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information 
Mrs L provided. Mrs L said her monthly take home pay was around £1,250. She gave 
Mr Lender details of her expenses, which included an amount of £107 that Mrs L said she 
was spending on other loans, including short-term loans. This still left her with more than 
£800 to spend. 
This information suggested that she was well able to afford the monthly repayments of no 
more than £114 for this loan .
At this early stage, Mrs L didnt have any track record with Mr Lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there was anything in the 
information she provided or the information Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender 
shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her financial situation or verify the information 
Mrs L had declared. 
So I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I've taken into account that Mrs L made one interest only repayment when she was repaying 
loan 1. That was an option that was available to her under the loan agreement. She repaid 
the loan without giving any other indication that she might be finding it hard to make the 
monthly repayments in full. 
And there was a gap of around eight weeks or so after Mrs L repaid her first Mr Lender loan 
and took out loan 2.
She borrowed a bigger loan this time. And I can see that her pay had gone down that month 
and she had less money left over to pay for this loan. 
Mrs L was now paying more for other debt elsewhere  around £300 this month. Mr Lender 
was aware that included paying for short-term loans with other lenders. 
I cant see that Mrs L gave Mr Lender any indication that her borrowing elsewhere was at the 
stage where it was causing her serious money problems during her application for loan 2.  
And on the figures Mrs L provided to Mr Lender it still looked like this loan shouldve been 
affordable for her. 
Out of her take home pay of £1050 she still hade disposable income of £550. So the 
repayment of £199.33 for this loan ought to have been manageable for her without causing 
her any money problems  and the remaining loan monthly repayments for this loan were for 
less money each time.
There wasnt anything in her borrowing history with Mr Lender to lead it to think that she 
might be having serious money problems. I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give Mrs L loan 2 on the 
basis of the information she gave about her income and outgoings and what it knew about 
her financial situation at the time from the credit checks it did. 
It was still early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for 
Mr Lender to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
Mrs L settled loan 2 early and there was a five months or so gap before she borrowed again 
from Mr Lender. On the information she provided, it looked affordable for her. 
But I think that the size of this loan and the fact that Mrs L would be repaying it over 
12 months shouldve prompted Mr Lender to think carefully about whether it had a good 
enough understanding of her financial circumstances so it could make a fair lending 
decision.
I think Mr Lender ought to have taken steps to check what Mrs L was saying about her 
financial situation. And I cant see that it did this. 
But it makes no overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because I havent 
seen enough to show that Mr Lender shouldve decided not to agree this loan had it asked 
all the questions and done all the checks it shouldve carried out.
Ive looked carefully through Mrs Ls credit report and bank statements. Even if Mr Lender 
had done the further checks it shouldve carried out to verify what Mrs L was saying and 
seen the information I've seen, I dont think it wouldve seen enough to show that providing 
loan 3 to her was unfair. 
Im very sorry that Mrs L found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided or the 
other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Mrs L lost out as a result of 
something that Mr Lender did wrong. And I dont think thats the case because even if 
Mr Lender had done proportionate checks for all these loans, I havent seen enough to show 
that it shouldve realised that any of the loans were likely to be unsustainable for her.
So overall, I dont find that Mr Lender acted unfairly when it provided these loans to Mrs L. 
In coming to my decision, Ive also taken into account what Mrs L said about the way a 
complaint with another short-term loan provider was dealt with. But each complaint is looked 
at on its own merits  no two complaints are likely to be identical in every way and the 
outcome on each will depend on its own facts. 
Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on 
another case doesnt change my conclusion here.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs L. But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman