DRN-3042814
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of her mothers estate that HSBC UK Bank Plc shouldnt have 
registered a power of attorney as it allowed her mother to be taken advantage of.
What happened
Mrs Ss mother sadly passed away in September 2018. At the time, Mrs Ss brother was 
listed as Mrs Ss mothers attorney under a Power of Attorney dated 2005 and submitted to 
HSBC for registration in 2012.
Mrs S obtained bank statements for her mothers account in February 2019 and having 
obtained these and a copy of the Power of Attorney complained to HSBC that it shouldnt 
have allowed the document to be registered. Mrs S complained that her brother had taken 
advantage of her mother too.
HSBC investigated Mrs Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. HSBC said that it had followed its 
normal processes when registering the power of attorney. Mrs S disagreed and complained 
to us.
Two investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint  the second investigator explained in 
considerable detail why they didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong when it registered 
the power of attorney and why they didnt think HSBC should have picked up any 
transactions on the grounds that they were unusual. Mrs S asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the power of attorney that HSBC was asked to register in 2012. The 
document is dated 2005, names Mrs Ss brother as the attorney and was witnessed by it 
seems his wife. Ive also seen a copy of a checklist HSBC completed at the time the power 
of attorney was registered. Im satisfied, based on the checklist, that HSBC asked the 
questions it was meant to at the time the power of attorney was presented for registration. 
Im also satisfied that HSBC had no reason to be concerned about the registration given that 
the checklist showed no causes for concern. So, I dont agree that HSBC shouldnt have 
accepted the power of attorney.
Mrs S has sent us correspondence from 2004 and 2005 to help shed light on her mothers 
health  including her mental health  at the time. Im grateful for that, as its not always easy 
finding documents from over 15 years ago. The documents do indeed shed light on her 
mothers health. They show she had a progressive condition and that she was beginning to 
find it difficult to live independently. But thats not all the documents show.
The correspondence Mrs S has sent us show that she was close to her brother in 2004 and 
2005, and that they spoke regularly about their mothers welfare. They show that they made 
decisions about their mother together, and that Mrs S agreed with her brother that it would 
make sense for him to be made her attorney as their mother was likely to be moving into a 
nursing home in the near future. It wasnt until much later  by the looks of it mid 2018  that 
Mrs S started to become concerned about her brother taking advantage of their mother. 
Thats despite learning hed changed his name in 2015  in order to have a fresh start in 
his own words  something that Mrs S has told us she encouraged at the time. In other 
words, theres nothing in the documents that suggests that Mrs S was unhappy with her 
brother being her mothers attorney in 2005 or had any concerns in 2012 about him either.
I can understand why Mrs S is upset with HSBC and feels it should have asked more 
questions when the power of attorney was registered in 2012. But its hard to see what could 
possibly have given HSBC cause for concern in 2012 when Mrs S had no concerns of her 
own at the time  and thats the way it stayed until mid-2018. I dont agree that HSBC should 
have asked more questions than it did at the time. But even if it had done so, I dont think 
HSBC would have had found anything that would have given it cause for concern. Otherwise 
Id be expecting HSBC to be concerned when Mrs S wasnt concerned at all. In short, I 
agree with our investigator that HSBC did nothing wrong registering the power of attorney.
I can understand why Mrs S was concerned about some of the transactions she saw on her 
mothers statements when she obtained copies of them in February 2019. I agree with her 
and with our investigator that some of the transactions appear to be ones that wouldnt have 
benefited Mrs Ss mother and would appear to benefit her brother instead. But given the size 
of the transactions and the nature of them, I also agree with our investigator that it wouldnt 
be reasonable to expect HSBCs systems to have picked them up. It follows that I also agree 
with our investigator that HSBC did nothing wrong here either.
I appreciate that Mrs S will be extremely disappointed with this decision. Its clear from the 
historic correspondence that Ive seen that she cared a lot for her mothers welfare. Its clear 
too that her relationship with her brother has become very difficult, and it is possible he took 
advantage of their mother. I do, however, have to look at what HSBC has done and, having 
done so, I cant say HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf of 
her mothers estate to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman