DRN-1297289
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between December 2016 and September 2018 Sunny provided Mr T with 21 instalment 
loans ranging between £50 - £400. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first six loans:
 
Loan 
Date
taken 
Date
repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest monthly 
repayment *
1 03/12/2016 27/01/2017 24 weeks 300 £114.20
2 28/02/2017 12/05/2017 6 months 200 £58.69
3 01/06/2017 01/09/2017 6 months 200 £55.45
4 20/07/2017 18/08/2017 6 months 100 £87.53
5 25/08/2017 20/10/2017 6 months 200 £122.12
6 27/08/2017 22/12/2017 6 months 100 £155.04
*Highest monthly repayment represents the largest instalment due on that loan and any 
overlapping loans.
Mr T feels that Sunny shouldnt have given him multiple loans which were unaffordable for 
him. He told us this led to him borrowing further, sometimes from other payday lenders, 
which resulted in trapping him in a debt spiral. 
When Mr T first complained to Sunny, it didn't uphold his complaint but made him a goodwill 
offer to write off the balance then outstanding on his account (in respect of 
loans 16, 17 and 18 which Mr T hadnt paid). 
Mr T didn't feel this went far enough and he referred his complaint to us to investigate.Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough to say 
that loans 1 - 4 shouldnt have been lent. But she felt that by loan 5 Sunny shouldve seen 
that Mr T was likely having money problems. And by loan 6 his overall pattern of borrowing 
suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. So our adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldnt have lent to him from loan 5 onwards and she set out what she thought 
Sunny should do to put things right for Mr T. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said but responded with a further offer (on 
top of the balance it had already written off) to say it was now willing to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint from loan 16 onwards.
We sent this information on to Mr T. This offer was rejected as he felt that loans 5 -21 should 
be upheld in line with our adjudicators recommendation. 
After this, Sunny sent a better offer and said it would uphold loans 14  21. But Mr T is 
aware this offer stills falls short of what our adjudicator recommended and hes asked for an 
ombudsman review. 
So his complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Sunny was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr T. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ts credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr T told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him the first four loans. These all looked comfortably affordable for Mr T, 
based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments when loans overlapped. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr T 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these loans, 
I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Ts borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 5, Sunny could see that Mr T had paid 
loan 1 early and taken out loan 2 quite soon after. 
Then hed paid loan 2 early, and taken out loan 3 soon after  when he borrowed the same 
amount hed previously borrowed when he took out the loan hed just repaid. 
Mr T took out loan 4 whilst he was still paying loan 3  and although this was his smallest 
loan to date, just like his earlier bigger loans, it was arranged to be repaid over 6 months. 
I think that shouldve prompted Sunny to think about whether this mightve been done mainly 
to keep down the cost of the monthly repayments  especially as hed only made a couple of 
repayments on loan 3 and both loans were due to run alongside each other for some 
months. 
Then just seven days after loan 4 was repaid early, Mr T took out loan 5  whilst loan 3 was 
still outstanding. And now he was borrowing twice as much as hed borrowed on loan 4 and 
loan 5 was the third time hed borrowed this amount.
Mr Ts record of borrowing again after early repayment of previous loans and taking out 
overlapping loans suggests to me that Mr T was finding it hard to get on top of his money 
problems and his financial difficulties were likely ongoing.  So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Ts borrowing record had the hallmarks of someone struggling with debt. And despite 
what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr T was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 5  and 
any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr T. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr T to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. 
I think Sunny should reasonably have seen that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this 
because:
Mr T wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr T had been paying Sunny 
loans every month for 9 months in a row since hed started borrowing from Sunny 
and this loan was due to keep him indebted to Sunny for a further 6 months 
 
following on from his earlier overlapping loans, Sunny could see that when Mr T 
asked for loan 6, he was still making repayments on loans 3 and 5 and hed only 
recently repaid loan 4.
 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr T before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into his debt 
 
although the loan amounts were variable this record of borrowing doesnt suggest 
that Mr T was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, 
I think this indicated that overall his financial circumstances hadnt improved and he 
had ongoing money problems and wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose.
 
I think that Mr T lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Ts ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 21 and Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
I understand Sunny has already written off the outstanding balances on loans 18, 19 and 20, 
so it should now take the following steps.A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and charges 
on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it has already 
refunded 
 
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled
 
C) remove all interest, fees and charges from the original outstanding balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr T as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr T having made 
overpayments then Sunny should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled minus the amount Sunny has already written off in respect of 
loans 18, 19 and 20 which Sunny can offset against the amount it owes Mr T
 
D) pay Mr T the amounts calculated in A and B 
 
E) remove all adverse entries from Mr Ts credit file for loan 5. The overall pattern of 
borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about loan 6 and the loans that 
followed is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 21 should be removed from Mr Ts credit 
file. If Sunny sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ts complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman