DRN-2875902
The complaint
Mr P has complained about his loss assessor, Morgan Clark Ltd as he feels it let him down 
when handling his property insurance claim for a fire. Mr P has also complained about his 
buildings insurer which handled the claim  that complaint is being considered separately. 
The complaint thats the subject of this decision is against Morgan Clark.
What happened
A fire occurred in a neighbouring property to Mr Ps residence in November 2017. The roof 
of his home was burnt with much of the rest of the property suffering residual damage. Mr P 
called his insurer and was told hed receive contact from a loss adjuster. Mr P has said he 
received a lot of calls in the aftermath of the fire but didnt believe the insurers loss adjuster 
had made contact. In the meantime hed been approached by Morgan Clark. He understood 
that, if he appointed it, Morgan Clark was going to deal directly with his insurer and the claim 
process would be made easy. As he felt let down by his insurer, he appointed Morgan Clark 
to act on his behalf.
In December 2018 Morgan Clark obtained agreement from the insurer to complete 
temporary roof repairs. A tarpaulin was fitted to cover the open roof. Mr P wasnt happy with 
this, he said it wasnt secured and water was coming in.
In January 2019 Mr P noted that his neighbours roof reinstatement works were well under 
way. He spoke to the contractor concerned, which advised it could repair Mr Ps roof too. 
Mr P asked Morgan Clark and his insurer to agree to this. The insurer was reluctant to do so 
as it hadnt yet been determined what work was needed. But on 13 February 2019 the 
insurer told Morgan Clark it would be agreeable to appointing the neighbouring contractor 
with a view to agreeing necessary work following the appointment. On 23 February Mr P 
wrote to Morgan Clark and the insurer stating he was frustrated that no-one would agree to 
using the neighbours contractor and stated he wanted a cash settlement. On 27 February 
Morgan Clark advised him he would be best off using its contractors; otherwise hed have to 
pay its fees and the insurer wouldnt pay any VAT.
Morgan Clark and the insurer then began debating what work was needed to the roof, and 
Mr P remained keen to get all work agreed. But by July work hadnt started and Mr P said all 
he wanted was for his home to be made watertight. Morgan Clarks contractors attended the 
property in August, and had to ask for a variation to the scope to allow a cost for disposing of 
all roof tiles, and there was a wait for replacements to be delivered. It was September before 
work began. Mr P quickly became unhappy with what he was seeing. Whilst work completed 
in October/November 2018 Mr P was unhappy with it; he told his insurer so and ultimately 
got his own surveyor to determine what work at the property was outstanding.
Mr P felt Morgan Clark had misled him about its role during his early meetings with it. He 
believed Morgan Clarks contractor had replaced lead valleys with a cheaper alternative. He 
said further damage had occurred to the internals of the house due to ineffective temporary 
repairs, plus delays both with the temporary and permanent repairs. The surveyors scope 
for reinstating everything came to £31,495.81 (excluding VAT), of which the insurer agreed 
to pay £16,560.40. Mr P felt Morgan Clark was liable for at least some of the outstanding 
£14,935.41. He also wanted his further costs for alternative accommodation to be covered, 
as well as his cost incurred for appointing a surveyor. 
Morgan Clark wasnt persuaded it had done anything wrong, or owed anything for any of the 
work. Mr P complained to us.
Our investigator felt Morgan Clark could, and should, have advised Mr P better in 
February 2019 when the insurer offered to appoint the neighbours contractor. But he wasnt 
persuaded, if it had, that would have changed anything. And he wasnt persuaded that, 
following that, Morgan Clark had caused any avoidable delays. He also said he hadnt seen 
sufficient evidence to say the house had likely been damaged by being left open to the 
elements, or that Morgan Clark had misled him during its appointment. So, he wasnt minded 
to uphold the complaint.  
 
Mr P was dissatisfied. The complaint was passed to me to decide. I felt Morgan Clark should 
pay £500 compensation and £812.56 for reinstatement of Mr Ps kitchen. But I wasnt 
minded to make it pay for any of the rest of the work or costs Mr P had incurred and felt it 
was liable for (whether wholly or in part).
Morgan Clark said it accepted it could have handled things better, so it would agree to my 
compensation award. But it said it wasnt responsible for the water ingress into Mr Ps home, 
so it wouldnt agree to paying the £812.56 Id awarded in respect of damage in the kitchen.
Mr P didnt think my findings went far enough. Ive summarised his reply here:
He was misled by Morgan Clark in the early days of his contact with its representative.
Morgan Clark undertook unauthorised roofing work; replacing lead valleys with a 
cheaper alternative. Mr P provided some photos.
Morgan Clark should bear some liability for at least some of his other costs, such as 
alternative accommodation.
Whilst Ive commented on his property insurers role in not appointing roofing contractors 
in early 2018, Morgan Clark failed him in this respect also. So £500 compensation 
seems low. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Poor claim handling and delay
I can see that this has been a frustrating and upsetting situation for Mr P at times which, 
I think, has not been helped by Morgan Clarks actions during the course of the claim. I know 
Mr P has concerns about how Morgan Clark conducted itself in order to have him appoint it  
but interaction of that nature isnt something Id usually consider because it pre-dates the 
loss assessor being involved in the insurance claim. In any event, theres no evidence, other 
than Mr Ps recollection, of what occurred or transpired between Morgan Clark and Mr P at 
the time  the earliest detail is the contract with Morgan Clark which Mr P signed and which 
is clear about Morgan Clarks role in the claim.
I accept that this was a somewhat complex claim and I think it would always have taken 
several months to resolve. I appreciate there were natural delays caused by the fact the loss 
assessor had to get certain things agreed with the insurer and that doing so took time. I also bear in mind that Morgan Clark was not in control of the claim  all it could do was put Mr Ps 
points to the insurer and manage the insurers response; providing what was needed to 
assist it in affecting and administering the claim. So the fact that the claim, particularly 
between February and July 2018 took time to progress because the insurer wanted to 
determine what work was required and the related cost for that, even though Mr P was 
saying he just wanted to get the property watertight, wasnt a situation Morgan Clark could 
really have done more to resolve. Of course, how Morgan Clark dealt with Mr P and what 
information it provided to him then fed into how the claim progressed.
I think Morgan Clark failed Mr P at times. For example, I think Morgan Clark were less than 
candid with Mr P about the insurers offer to appoint the neighbours contractor. I think Mr P 
had clearly become frustrated with his insurer as he believed it wasnt willing to 
accommodate this reasonable way forwards for his claim, when in fact this wasnt case. So if 
Morgan Clark had been clearer with him that level of frustration would have been avoided. 
But I cant be certain that this would have meant Mr P would have gone ahead and used that 
contractor. I say that as Mr P was clearly unhappy about having to pay Morgan Clarks fee  
and this fee was always due unless Morgan Clarks contractors were used.
I also think Morgan Clark could and should have done more to protect Mr Ps property in the 
early stages of the claim. It put forward costs to the insurer for putting up tarpaulin, but when 
the insurer asked for further recommendations, other contractors told Morgan Clark that a 
tarpaulin wouldnt work, certainly not for anything beyond a very short period. But Morgan 
Clark didnt look for alternatives or tell the insurer that other remedies had been 
recommended, a tarpaulin was installed and when Mr P told it the tarpaulin wasnt working, 
nothing was done to amend or address that.
I know Morgan Clark is of the view that once Mr P complained about the tarpaulin, the 
insurer should have acted to resolve this. But I dont think its fair to say thats what should 
have happened, not when Morgan Clark was acting for Mr P, and certainly not where 
Morgan Clark had been on notice before going ahead with the temporary repair that it was 
fated to fail. The ineffectiveness of the temporary repair meant that during the subsequent 
months the property wasnt properly protected. Whilst Ive said Morgan Clark wasnt really 
responsible for delays occurring between February and July 2018, if it had handled the 
temporary repairs situation better then the property would have been protected over those 
subsequent months. 
Ive considered in sections below what liability Morgan Clark has for the outstanding repairs, 
which Mr P says includes damage caused by water ingress. Im not persuaded Morgan Clark 
has any liability for alternative accommodation costs or the cost Mr P incurred in appointing 
a surveyor. But in terms of distress and inconvenience, I think Mr P has been quite worried 
during this claim and I think Morgan Clark is, in part, to blame for that upset. I think it should 
pay him £500 compensation.
outstanding reinstatement work
I think Morgan Clark is liable for some of the further work Mr P has asked for payment for  
namely reinstating his kitchen. But I dont think its liable for other work. Ive broken this down 
by category below.
External roof repairs  Ive not seen evidence that makes me think Morgan Clarks contractor 
removed lead valley gutters and replaced them with a cheap alternative. I dont intend to 
make Morgan Clark pay for this work.Mr P says the roof needs stripping to allow the valley work and/or for work to clean and treat 
the internal roof timbers and external fascias. Ive not seen any expert advice that says 
stripping the roof is necessary for any of this work to be done.
Carpets, loosened floorboards and boiler  Mr P says these deteriorated and were damaged 
due to water ingress and the property being left empty. Ive not seen evidence of this.   
Kitchen  Mr P says this also suffered over time due to water ingress. He provided photos 
which show it is in quite a bad sate with wallpaper bubbling and coming away and the ceiling 
stained. He wants £812.56 to reinstate it. I intend to make Morgan Clark pay for this. I think, 
on balance, the kitchen was not in this state at the time of the fire  the insurers loss 
adjuster attended and didnt mention the kitchen at all. I think if it had been suffering in this 
way, the adjuster would have mentioned it with a view to either ruling it in or out of the fire 
damage claim. So, in my view, since the fire, the kitchen has been damaged by water 
ingress  and we know the temporary measures to the roof werent successful in protecting 
the property and that permanent repairs werent completed for the better part of a year, 
during all of which the property wasnt heated. I think its fair to require Morgan Clark to cover 
this loss, plus interest*, from 25 February 2019  the date the insurer settled matters - until 
payment is made. The insurer settled its liability on the basis of Mr Ps stated costs, so it 
makes sense he gets interest from the date of that payment to account for any increase in 
costs since that point (being the earliest he could reasonably have expected settlement for 
all the damage). If Mr P presents an invoice showing VAT on this work is due to be paid, 
Morgan Clark will have to pay that sum too.
I appreciate that this has been difficult for Mr P, and Ive considered his views re-stated in his 
reply to my provisional decision. However, by and large, he hasnt provided further evidence 
to support his views. Regarding the roof valleys he has provided some photos. But, at best, 
these show whats in place now. They dont evidence that Morgan Clark did this work. 
Overall Mr Ps comments and photos havent given me cause to amend my findings as 
provisionally stated.
I appreciate that Morgan Clark thinks it couldnt have done more in respect of the temporary 
roof repairs. However, Im not persuaded that what it did do was reasonable.
Morgan Clarks file shows an email to the insurers loss adjuster on 1 December, setting out 
some concerns a roofing contractor, which Morgan Clark had approached, had about 
sheeting the roof. But the full email address is not shown, and the same email doesnt 
appear on the loss adjusters file (which Ive also seen). However the loss adjusters file does 
show there was a phone call where the possible problems with the roof were discussed. The 
file also shows that the loss adjuster was expecting further submissions as to costs from 
Morgan Clark. And Morgan Clark says its specific query about fitting a temporary roof (rather 
than just covering what was there with tarpaulin sheeting) wasnt answered. I see from 
Morgan Clarks submissions that it, therefore, never asked the roofing contractor to quote for 
that, it assumed the insurer wouldnt pay for such and the resultant outcome was that Mr Ps 
roof was only fitted with sheeting. Which, as expected, failed. Whilst Morgan Clark knew this 
would happen it did nothing to challenge Mr Ps insurer as to costs, nor to warn Mr P. If 
Morgan Clark had submitted a cost for this work which the insurer had declined, then my 
view might be different. But it did not. I remain of the view that Morgan Clark is liable to pay 
Mr P £812.56, plus interest* to reinstate his kitchen.
Putting things right
I require Morgan Clark to pay Mr P:
£812.56 for the kitchen reinstatement, plus interest* from 25 February 2019 until settlement is made.
An amount to cover the cost of VAT due for this work, once evidence of VAT being 
incurred is shown.
£500 compensation for upset.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Morgan Clark considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr P, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Morgan Clark Ltd to settle matters as set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman