DRN-3558723
The complaint
Miss J complains Monzo Bank Limited have not refunded money that was sent to the wrong 
account.
What happened
On 8 January 2021 Miss J contacted Monzo explaining a £5,000 transfer to another account 
had been made on her account. Miss J explained the payment had not been authorised by 
her and she had no awareness of it. At this point Monzo applied restrictions to the account 
and blocked Miss Js card whilst it investigated the matter.
Monzo investigated the transfer and explained Miss J had received payments from the 
receiving payee in the past. Miss J confirmed that she did not know the recipient of the 
payment and that she was unable to ask for the payment to be returned. Miss J explained 
that she reported the payment as soon as she was aware of it and confirmed she hadnt 
disclosed her PIN to anyone. Miss J also explained her son had her phone at the time of the 
transaction, and he could have made the payment in error. Miss J also explained her phone 
had been lost two weeks before the transaction.
Monzo carried out an initial review based on Miss Js responses and explained it would not 
be refunding the disputed amount. It explained that the transfer had been authenticated 
using Miss Js PIN.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss J raised a formal complaint. During this review, 
Miss J explained that she had actually sent the payment to the wrong account in error. Miss 
J went on to say that she was due to pay a friend back who had lent her money. Miss J 
explained that as her children were climbing over her she entered the incorrect details. Miss 
J asked Monzo to recover the funds from the receiving bank. Monzo reviewed Miss Js 
points and explained this would not be possible given the details provided by Miss J. Monzo 
also explained it would be closing Miss Js account in line with its account terms and 
conditions.
Miss J raised another complaint at this stage, which was reviewed in full and Monzo its final 
response on 21 January 2021. In summary, Monzo explained:
It didnt find the payment to be fraudulent as it was authorised using Miss Js PIN and 
there isnt any evidence to support Miss Js initial claim that the payment wasnt 
made by her.
It wouldnt be able to use the Credit Payment Recovery process as there needs a 
clear and credible account of how the mistake happened. Miss J has not been 
consistent with details about what happened so it can not follow this process.
It explained its decision to close Miss Js account was in line with the account terms 
and conditions Miss J had agreed to. 
It apologized for the delays Miss J experienced in receiving an initial response and 
offered her £50 in recognition of this delay. 
Miss J remained unhappy with the response from Monzo and referred her complaint to our 
service. An investigator reviewed the complaint. In summary they found that Monzo had 
acted fairly as Miss J has given various accounts of whats happened and there wasnt 
evidence of a genuine mistake for the CPR process to be successful.
Miss J did not agree with the investigators review, so the complaint has been passed to me 
 an ombudsman  for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Firstly, I am sorry to see Miss J has had cause for complaint. I dont underestimate the worry 
and anguish this situation has caused, and also the stress of dealing with the complaint 
about it. 
Although Miss J initially claimed the transaction was fraudulent it seems based on her more 
recent accounts of what happened that she accepts she was responsible for the payment. 
Miss J has explained that she made an error and entered the incorrect account details. I 
wont therefore be considering Monzos review of the fraudulent claim Miss J initially made. 
Instead I will focus on whether Monzo has acted fairly in its decision not to pursue the Credit 
Payment Recovery process. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 a payment service provider should take 
reasonable steps to recover funds that have been misapplied to an account. However, this 
only applies if there is clear evidence of a genuine mistake. Ive considered these 
requirements alongside what Miss J has said about the payment, and I am not persuaded 
that there is enough to say this was a genuine mistake. Ill explain why. 
When Miss J initially reported the transaction to Monzo she said it was fraudulent. Monzo 
spent the first few days reviewing Miss Js account and transaction based on this 
information. Miss J also went on to explain her young son had her phone at the time, 
suggesting he may have made the payment in error. After Monzo explained it wouldnt be 
refunding the amount to Miss J she explained that the payment had actually been made in 
error by herself. Miss J explained that a friend had lent her cash to pay for Christmas, and 
she was repaying this amount. Miss J has provided details of the account the payment was 
meant to go into and said as her children were climbing on her she entered the wrong 
details. Miss Js account of what happened regarding the payment has changed 
considerably throughout her complaint. This prompted Monzo to ask further questions and 
given the inconsistencies I think this was reasonable.  
Miss J has provided the details of the account the payment was meant to be sent to. Ive 
looked at these and they show that the incorrect sort code and account number were 
entered by Miss J. The recipients name is also the same as another account that appears 
on Miss Js statements, albeit it with different account details. Miss J has maintained she 
does not know who the incorrect payment went to. I can also see that on the same day as 
the payment was made, Miss J received payment for the same amount into her account. Miss J says that another friend was given the cash she borrowed, and she was returning it 
via online transfer. Ive thought carefully about Miss Js explanation about the error and the 
activity on her account. Considering it all, I dont think Miss Js account fully explains the 
numerous discrepancies that have been highlighted.
Miss J says her children were climbing on her while she was making the payment, and this 
led to the errors. However, as this was a transfer for a significant amount Monzo has 
explained Miss J wouldve had to go through a number of steps in order for the payment to 
be confirmed. These steps wouldve included Miss J entering her PIN to confirm the correct 
details had been entered. So, Miss J wouldve had a chance to check the details before 
confirming the transfer, regardless of the distractions around her. 
For me to be able to find that Monzo shouldve pursued the CPR procedure Id need to be 
satisfied that there is enough evidence of a clear and genuine mistake on Miss Js part. Ive 
carefully considered the available evidence, and I dont think there is enough evidence of 
this.
Monzo also took the decision to close Miss Js account following its review of the payment 
and account. Looking at the terms and conditions of Miss Js account I think Monzo has 
acted in line with these and provided Miss J with adequate time and information about its 
decision.
I know this will not be the outcome Miss J was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. But this final decision ends what our service can do for her. 
However, she can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if she wishes to do 
so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman