DRN-3988902
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the delays caused by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (Royal London) when she switched her personal pension plan and took tax-free cash 
from her plan benefits. Mrs M is also unhappy with the overall customer service she has 
received.
 
What happened
On 18 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
In September 2019 Mrs M initiated the switch of her personal pension plan benefits from two 
different providers, which I will refer to here as A and B, to a new arrangement with Royal 
London. 
The switch was not immediately actioned, so after chasing Royal London throughout 
January 2020, and with the switch still outstanding, Mrs M complained to it on 
24 February 2020. 
On 2 March 2020 Mrs M emailed Royal London requesting an update on her transfer. She 
also told them that she had decided not to transfer her policy from B to Royal London as the 
process has taken too long.
Unhappy with Royal Londons handling of her complaint and with the switch from A still not 
complete, Mrs M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in July 2020. 
In August 2020 Mrs M was provided information about Royal Londons Income Release 
Plans and she let it know she wanted to proceed with the flexible income release pension 
product on 21 August 2020. 
Royal London subsequently accepted that its service had been extremely poor and that it 
caused delays. And by email on 23 April 2021 it explained to Mrs M that:
once the drawdown plan has been arranged and the payments paid that you require 
we will outline compensation for you both for the delays you have most certainly 
experienced and the time taken to realise the funds you wanted out of a drawdown 
arrangement
On 24 May 2021 the drawdown plan set up was complete and Mrs M received payment of 
her tax-free cash lump sum. 
On 11 June 2021 Royal London made an offer to put things right. It explained that had things 
gone as they should have; the income release plan could have been set up and tax-free 
cash paid the week starting 6 January 2020. On that basis, Royal London offered to do the 
following: 
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the tax-free cash Mrs M wouldve received 
from 6 January 2020 to 24 May 2021 (tax-free cash paid £17,685.16)
Establish any loss on the fund from A over this time i.e. compare the transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually received from A in May 2021.
Establish any loss on the Royal London CIS stakeholder plan transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually transferred to the new income release plan.
Pay the difference in value of the plan with B on 8 January 2020 to the value on 
2 March 2020.
Pay trouble and upset of £1,000
One of our investigators considered this offer in light of the total circumstances surrounding 
the complaint with the aim to put Mrs M in the position she ought to be in had Royal London 
not delayed things. And she thought this offer was fair. Mrs M initially agreed but later asked 
for an ombudsmans decision as redress wasnt paid within 28 days and she didnt think 
shed been redressed for the fact that shed been unable to take drawdown payments for 
years because of Royal Londons actions.
Accordingly, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
I then considered the merits of Mrs Ms complaint, setting out my findings as follows: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im currently minded to reach an outcome different from the investigator 
because I consider that additional compensation is required. 
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this. 
It is not in dispute that Royal London provided Mrs M with extremely poor service and that 
she lost out as a result. So the only thing I need to decide is how this loss should be 
redressed. 
Royal London said if things had gone as they should have, the switch would have completed 
the week commencing 6 January 2020. Mrs M hasnt said this isnt correct and Ive seen no 
evidence which leads me to conclude otherwise, so I agree that redress should be based on 
this date. 
Ive also looked at what Royal London said it would do to ensure Mrs M hasnt lost out. It 
said it would:
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the tax-free cash Mrs M wouldve received 
from 6 January 2020 to 24 May 2021 (tax free cash paid £17,685.16)
Establish any loss on the fund from A over this time i.e. compare the transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually received from A in May 2021.
Establish any loss on the Royal London CIS stakeholder plan transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually transferred to the new income release plan.
Pay the difference in value of the plan with B at 8 January 2020 to the value at 
2 March 2020.
Pay trouble and upset of £1,000
I think this is fair and reasonable and in line with what I would award if this offer had not 
been made. And it seems that Mrs M doesnt think the proposed redress is wholly incorrect, and in the main, she accepted it. But when payment wasnt promptly made, Mrs M realised 
that the proposed compensation was incomplete. Having considered the circumstances, I 
agree.
Specifically, Mrs M has said that she has not been redressed for potential drawdown 
amounts she could have taken tax free from her flexible income plan had it started on 
6 January 2020 (as the parties agreed should have been the case). 
Ive reviewed the offer made by Royal London and I can see that while in April 2021 it told 
Mrs M that it would compensate her for the delays in accessing her funds through the 
drawdown arrangement this doesnt appear to have been included in the redress offer as set 
out above. 
Unfortunately, given the evidence Ive been provided to date, Im unable to say what amount 
Mrs M would have taken from her income drawdown plan and when, each year if things had 
gone as they should have. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory 
(as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
In this case I consider it more likely that not that Mrs M would have maximised the amount of 
funds she could access without exceeding her personal allowance in tax years 2019/2020 
and 2020/2021. Mrs M said she would have been able to take approximately £6,500 per 
year from her drawdown account. As she wasnt able to do this because the drawdown 
arrangement wasnt set up until May 2021, I consider she has lost out on access to these 
funds. Generally when concluding that a consumer has been deprived of access to funds, 
we award 8% for the period of deprivation. But given the amount of time that this complaint 
has been ongoing and that it may prove difficult, if not impossible, to arrive at a sum certain 
for this part of Mrs Ms loss, I consider a fair solution would be to say Royal London should 
pay Mrs M a further £1,000 as redress for this deprivation. 
Furthermore, I agree Mrs M should not be responsible for any tax owing as a result of the 
compensation paid here. So if Mrs M provides Royal London with evidence of tax owed, it 
should compensate her for this amount as well.
Putting things right
To fairly compensate Mrs M, I propose that Royal London:
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the tax-free cash Mrs M wouldve received 
from 6 January 2020 to 24 May 2021 (tax free cash paid £17,685.16)
Establish any loss on the fund from A over this time i.e. compare the transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually received from A in May 2021.
Establish any loss on the Royal London CIS stakeholder plan transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually transferred to the new income release plan.
Pay the difference in value of the plan with B at 8 January 2020 to the value at 
2 March 2020.
Pay £1,000 for the deprivation of drawdown income
Pay £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused
Provisional decision
For the reasons given, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to compensate Mrs M as set out above. I invited both parties to respond to my provisional findings.
Mrs M responded saying in relevant part:
Royal London chose the date of 6th January 2020; she had no choice with this date. If 
everything had gone to plan with her original request in September 2019, she thought 
it would have been done sooner. In her opinion, this date was chosen because plan 
values would possibly be lower at this time of year.
The Income Release Plans were provided to her in August 2020 as an alternative to 
her original plan request which was a service Royal London had withdrawn. She felt 
she had no option but to accept the drawdown plan offered by Royal London as 
compensation would not have been considered if [she]d not proceeded.
She wasnt happy with the offer of £1,000 for trouble and upset but said she was 
advised by us that this was Royal Londons final offer.
She asked for an ombudsmans decision because the full redress had not been paid 
within 28 days and the tax implications; and she is still awaiting payment for points 2 
and 3 from the original offer list. She said Royal London told her nothing further 
would be done as her complaint was with an ombudsman.
Royal London didnt reply when she asked it to reword the tax certificate which has 
had tax implications. 
She was happy the decision included £1,000 for the deprivation of drawdown 
income. 
She would like 8% interest added to all monies still outstanding from the redress 
acceptance and that full payment be made within 28 days. 
She also asked that Royal London provide her with a hard copy of all the data they 
have on her with regards to this whole process.
Mrs Ms response was provided to Royal London. They replied to my provisional decision 
and Mrs Ms comments saying insofar as is relevant:
They didnt apply the date of 6 January 2020 because the value would be lower, 
Mrs M accepted the basis of the view issued and this service then closed the 
complaint. 
The closing decision was received on 19 July 2021, and on 22 July 2021 Royal 
London paid to Mrs M £4,001.22 by direct credit. This was made up of:
oInterest at 8% simple on the tax-free cash from 6 January 2020 to 
24 May 2021 (£1,562.88 net)
o£1,000 for trouble and upset; and
oThe difference on the loss on the plan with B (£1,438.34).
Mrs M didnt have to accept the income drawdown plan with Royal London and could 
have taken drawdown with any other drawdown provider.
£1,000 was fair for the trouble and upset caused in the circumstances.
The tax certificate wasnt reworded because the offer while already paid as above 
was then rejected and we awaited a further Provisional/Final Decision at Mrs [M]s 
request. It further clarified that this money was not returned, and Mrs M has had it 
since July 2021.
Royal London agreed to the additional award of £1,000 regarding the drawdown 
issue. 
A GDPR/SAR request had been made and this will be with the customer shortly (if 
not already).What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have had the chance to consider my thoughts on this case and to respond. And 
Ive considered all the of the comments provided in response to my provisional decision 
carefully. Having done, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached and 
explained in that decision. 
However, given some of the further points raised, I feel further clarification of some matters 
is required. But Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised by the parties. 
Thats deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and necessary to reach a fair resolution 
to this complaint.  
First, Mrs M has now said she doesnt agree that the soonest things could have been done 
was 6 January 2020 and believes this date was chosen by Royal London because it 
provided a lower fund value. I appreciate why Mrs M might feel this way, but Ive seen no 
evidence that this is the case. Furthermore, lacking evidence to suggest otherwise, I am 
unable to conclude that the switch could have been completed before the week commencing 
6 January 2020 as stated by Royal London. This is not an unreasonable timeframe in the 
circumstances. Therefore, the redress calculations should be based on this date as set out 
in in Royal Londons original offer and endorsed in my provisional decision.
I also note that Mrs M provided the fund value of the plan with B on 8 January 2020 for 
purposes of compensation. This was accepted without question by Royal London. And 
again, without evidence that things could have been completed sooner, I see no reason to 
change this date either. 
Mrs M has also said that she felt she had to take the income drawdown plan with Royal 
London in order to receive compensation. That the income drawdown plan might have been 
mis-sold has been raised for the first time in response to my provisional decision and so is 
therefore outside of the scope of this decision. But Ive seen no evidence that Royal London 
conditioned its offer on Mrs M starting a drawdown plan with them. 
I also want to clarify that once Mrs M asked for her complaint to be reopened so that an 
ombudsman could decide matters, this meant she had no longer accepted the redress offer 
so Royal London were no longer required to provide redress at that time. Nevertheless, 
Royal London said it paid her compensation in July 2021, meaning Mrs M has had the 
benefit of these funds while awaiting resolution to her complaint so an award for being 
deprived of these funds isnt required. 
And I can see that Royal London had also calculated the loss on the transfer of funds from 
Mrs Ms former CIS plan and offered to pay this into her income release plan or direct to her 
on 28 July 2021. Ive no evidence that Mrs M responded and at this point her complaint was 
being reopened. So I dont consider it appropriate to make an award for interest. Instead, 
Royal London should do as it offered on 28 July 2021 and arrange for a loss calculation had 
the funds from the former CIS plan been received on 6 January 2020.
As far as Im aware, redress has not yet been awarded for any identified loss on the funds 
transferred from the plan with A. The evidence Ive seen suggest this is mainly the result of 
Royal Londons inability to get the necessary information from A. And once this information has been received Royal London has agreed to conduct a loss calculation, which would 
bring the plan value up to date, so an interest award would not be warranted at this time. 
Furthermore, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider it unreasonable that 
Royal London didnt reword the tax certificate or engage in further discussions with Mrs M 
about her complaint while it has been with this service. But as explained in my provisional 
decision, Mrs M should not be responsible for additional tax as a result of the compensation 
paid here. So if Mrs M provides Royal London with evidence of tax owed, it should 
compensate her for this amount as well and/or make the necessary changes to the tax 
certificate so that Mrs Ms tax position is not negatively impacted.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if things had gone as they should have when Mrs M initiated the switch. 
I take the view that had things not been delayed Mrs Ms income release plan would have 
been set up and the funds from A and her former CIS plan would have been received on 
6 January 2020. 
On this basis, Royal London has already paid redress as offered below: 
Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the tax-free cash Mrs M wouldve received 
from 6 January 2020 to 24 May 2021 (tax free cash paid £17,685.16)
Pay the difference in value of the plan with B at 8 January 2020 to the value at 
2 March 2020.
Pay £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused.

As such, no further compensation is owed in this regard. 
In order to fully redress matters, Royal London must also now:
Pay Mrs M £1,000 for the deprivation of drawdown income.
And Royal London needs to:
Establish any loss on the fund from A between 6 January 2020 to what was received 
from A in May 2021 and conduct a loss calculation to determine what those funds 
would be worth now if theyd been received by the income release plan on 
6 January 2020. 
Establish any loss on the Royal London CIS stakeholder plan transfer value in 
January 2020 to what was actually transferred to the new income release plan and 
conduct a loss calculation to determine what those funds would be worth now if 
theyd been received on 6 January 2020.
This compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ms pension plan. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Mrs M 
has already taken her tax-free cash from this pension, so the entire remaining fund would be 
subject to income tax at her marginal rate. If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Royal London receiving Mrs Ms 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Royal London must take reasonable efforts to obtain the necessary information from A, 
which may require action by Mrs M. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Royal London deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Royal London should give 
Mrs M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
and direct Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay compensation as set out 
above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman