DRN-3946847
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly when it repeatedly declined one of his 
payments leading to him making a trading loss. His complaint is a joint one with Miss E.
What happened
Mr O has a trading account with a business who Ill refer to as B throughout the rest of this 
decision. He has a trading strategy that involves holding positions on a long-term basis. He 
deposits money with B from time to time, or trades out of some of his positions, in order to 
keep his positions open. He says hes been able to keep positions open for long periods of 
time trading in this way. 
Mr O has a debit card issued by Lloyds Bank. He has a mobile phone and an email address 
and is able to get online without any difficulties. He used his card to pay deposits to B, 
without any problems, up and until February 2022. Unfortunately, in February 2022, when 
trying to deposit money with B in response to a margin call, his card kept on getting declined.
Mr O says B sold his open positions because he wasnt able to deposit money with them and 
that he made losses as a result. He complained to Lloyds Bank and B about his losses as he 
didnt know who was to blame.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Os complaint but didnt uphold it saying that it had declined his 
payments because they hadnt been processed using strong customer authentication. Mr O 
complained to us about both businesses.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint against Lloyds Bank but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. They said that Lloyds Bank had taken the decision to decline 
payments to merchants that hadnt been processed using strong customer authentication 
and hadnt acted unfairly. Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O wanted to make a payment to B using his debit card which involved putting his card 
details into a website. In other words, an online payment. Thats the type of transaction 
which is now caught by new rules that require Payment Services Providers (PSPs) to apply 
more rigorous checks than the ones theyve had to apply in the past. These more rigorous 
checks are more commonly known as strong customer authentication (SCA). 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) implemented the EU Directive that 
introduced SCA, amongst other things. And the section of the PSRs relating to SCA came 
into effect in September 2019. But that didnt mean that businesses had to have these new 
checks in place by then. The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement SCA for online 
banking and gave the e-commerce industry (including card issuers, payment firms and 
online retailers) until March 2022 to implement SCA for online payments. There was nothing 
to stop firms bringing in SCA sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
In this case, Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank had implemented SCA by February 2022 and that 
B had methods of making deposits that involved SCA as well as methods of making deposits 
that didnt. Im also satisfied that Lloyds Bank had taken a decision to decline payments to 
merchants who hadnt processed those payments in accordance with SCA. That means that 
when Mr O tried to use his card to pay a deposit to B  using one of the options that B 
offered  those payments were declined because that particular option involved using a 
third-party payment vendor who didnt support SCA at the time. Im satisfied that Mr O 
contacted Lloyds Bank and B to find out what was going on, and that when he did so B 
suggested other ways that he could make the payment which should have gone through  
either because they didnt involve SCA at its end or because the process was one that 
involved SCA. Mr O says that he tried to make the payment another way, but that this 
payment also failed. I can, however, see that he didnt go back to B to let it know, and that B 
also tried to contact him to discuss other options if needed but got no response. In the 
circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds Bank didnt do anything wrong and 
that Mr O had several alternative ways of paying which would have worked.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman