The complaint  
Mrs M  complains that Monzo  bank Ltd closed her bank account and havent told her why it 
no longer wants her as a customer.  
What happened  
Mrs M  had an account with Monzo . 
In February 2022, Monzo  reviewed Mrs M s account . Following its review, it decided to close 
Mrs Ms account and wrote to her on 25 February 2022 giving her 60 days notice to make 
alternative banking arrangements.  
Mrs M complained to Monzo and asked for an explanation for why it had closed her account.  
Monzo wouldnt give Mrs M much information about why it had closed her account. Mrs M 
pointed out that she had been a good customer of the bank and always operated her 
account properly. She said that since the account had been closed other bank accounts, she 
had had also been closed, which made it difficult to pay her bills, look after her family and 
receive her wages. She says Monzo has closed her account unfairly and discriminated 
against her on the basis of her race and beliefs. Shes also said that she  works for an 
organisation and believes that Monzo has closed her account due to misinformation and lies 
that have been spread by members of a rival organisation.  
In response, Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed Mrs Ms account 
and that it wasnt obliged to provide Mrs M with an explanation why it no longer wanted to 
offer her banking services. It said it had closed the account in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Unhappy with this response Mrs M brought his compla int to our service. She said that the 
organisation she works for is all above board, legal and well respected. And Monzo have 
discriminated against her when it closed her account. She wants Monzo to provide a proper 
explanation why it closed her account.  
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. They didnt think Monzo had done 
anything wrong when it had closed Mrs Ms account and explained that the bank didnt have 
to provide an explanation for why it no longer wanted Mrs M as a customer. M rs M 
disagreed. She maintains that Monzo has closed her account unfairly and discriminated 
against her. In support of this, shes pointed out that a number of other people she works 
with at her organisation and share her beliefs have also had their bank ac counts closed.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.  
DRN-3970269What Ive decided  and why  
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer.  Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to  continue providing  accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the c ommercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.  
At times, following a review, banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mrs M decided to stop banking with Monzo , she 
wouldnt have to explain why. I understand Mrs M wants Monzo to explain the reason it 
reviewed and closed her account. But Monzo doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers 
a review of their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mrs M the reaso ns behind the 
account review and closure, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mrs M this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
do so.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to r eceive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Monzo  has provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with  
Mrs M, but Id like to reassure her  that I have considered everything  carefully . 
I know M rs M is upset that Monzo  closed her account. I appreciate that it cant be pleasant 
being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. Monzo have relied on the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ms account when it. The terms explain that the bank can close the 
accoun t with notice  by providing a customer 60 days notice. Having looked at all the 
information available to me, including Monzo s actions and the information its provided Im 
satisfied that Monzos  decision to close Mrs M s account  was reached legitimately and fairly. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied 
Monzo acted in line with them, s o, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. 
I know Mrs M says that she  believes that she is a victim of discrimination by Monzo. And 
feels that the bank closed her account on the grounds of her race and beliefs. While I can 
appreciate this is her perspective, it is not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
decide wh ether the business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts.  Im 
required to take into account a number of factors in order to decide M rs Ms complaint in 
accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of t his complaint.  
Part of this has meant considering the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 . And after looking 
at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Monzo decided to close the 
account for an improper reason. In reaching this conclusi on, I acknowledge what Mrs M says 
about others having similar experiences. But I cant comment on that. I am only concerned 
with the facts of this complaint.  
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mrs M  feels about whats happened. I dont doubt it 
was a f rustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mrs M  will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Monzo  have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mrs M  unfairly  when it closed her account.  My final decision  
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M  to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023 .  
Ombudsman 