DRN-3049393
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Covea Insurance plc refused a claim under their home 
insurance following a fire.
Both Mr and Mrs C are named policyholders on their Covea policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mr C, Ill refer mainly to Mr C from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a Covea home insurance policy, bought through an insurance broker. In 
May 2021, there was a fire at their home resulting in damage to their van, a fence, and some 
outbuildings. Mrs C called their broker to make a claim on their home insurance.
During the claim, Mrs C said her husband had recently started work on a small, single-storey 
extension to their home. The work was being done by Mr C.
In response, Covea said the terms of their policy meant they had to notify Covea about any 
new building work at least seven days before the work started. It cancelled Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy and rejected their claim.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said the extension didnt need planning permission, so he 
didnt realise he needed to tell Covea about it. He also said the fire was unrelated to the new 
building work. He wants Covea to accept the claim and cover the cost of the fire damage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He found that, 
under the terms of the policy, Mr C had to tell Covea about the extension. Had he done so, 
Covea would have cancelled his policy. This meant he wouldve been uninsured for the fire 
damage. Our investigator thought Covea had acted reasonably by rejecting the claim. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C explained that the fire was more than 30 metres from the house and unrelated to the 
new building work. I accept that and I note that Covea hasnt disputed this. Unfortunately for 
Mr and Mrs C, that isnt the important issue here.
The key questions in this case are:
1. Did Mr and Mrs C have to tell Covea about the building work?
2. If they did, what would have happened?
3. Would this have been fair?
Mr C started work on the new extension a few weeks before the fire. Covea referred to 
Section D of Mr Cs policy (How to make sure your policy is valid). This says:
If youre planning to have any structural work carried out at your home you must tell 
your intermediary at least 7 days before the work starts. These building works might 
include:
 an extension; 
 demolishing any walls;
 renovation; or
 any form of building work.
Well then decide whether to continue covering you or give you any extra conditions 
we think are needed. You must tell us first. If you dont, we wont pay any claims 
caused by any building work taking place.
The January 2021 renewal letter from Mr Cs broker also included several important notes. 
The first says: Your insurers should be advised of any change in circumstances or of any 
planned building works, including renovation, reconstruction or maintenance, as such works 
may affect the validity of your cover. [my emphasis]
I think this is clear. And the requirement doesnt make any distinction between work that 
does or doesnt need planning permission. So while I understand Mr Cs point that the 
extension didnt need planning permission, Im satisfied that, under the terms of his policy, 
Mr C should still have told Covea about it.
Covea told us what would have happened if it had known about the new extension:
 our Underwriters would then assess if the risk was acceptable or not. If the client 
was a builder and says they were doing the works themselves, then this may have 
been acceptable as it will have been done by a professional. Unfortunately, in this 
case, there was no liability cover in place (as confirmed by Mr and Mrs [C]) and as 
they were carrying out themselves, there were no contractors/profession [sic] 
builders involved. This failed to meet our underwriting requirements and as such the 
policy was cancelled.
It provided us with a copy of its underwriting procedure to support this. 
In other words, Coveas underwriters would have considered any new building work and 
decided whether to continue to insure Mr and Mrs C. In this case, because Mr C was doing 
much of the building work himself Covea says it would have cancelled its insurance before 
Mr C started work. That means Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been insured for any damage 
caused by the fire a few weeks later.
Would this have been fair? I think so. Mr C isnt a professional builder and doesnt have 
liability cover. I think Coveas argument that it wasnt prepared to cover this risk so would 
have cancelled the policy is reasonable.
I have great sympathy for Mr and Mrs C. I accept their argument that the fire was unrelated 
to Mr Cs work on the new extension. However, Im satisfied that Covea would have 
cancelled Mr and Mrs Cs policy in April 2021 if it had been told about this work. That means 
Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been insured for damage caused by the fire a few weeks later. I 
think Coveas decision to cancel Mr and Mrs Cs policy and reject their claim was fair.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman