DRN-4084689
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Metro Bank PLC surrounding a 
reimbursement to his account.
What happened
On 9 July 2022, Mr G attempted to withdraw £10 from an ATM at Metro. Unfortunately, while 
Mr Gs Metro account was debited £10, the ATM didnt dispense the money. Mr G reported 
that he hadnt received the £10 to Metros branch staff, and he was advised a refund would 
be credited to his account within 24 hours. But Metro didnt reimburse the £10 to Mr Gs 
account until 11 August 2022  over a month later  despite Mr G chasing Metro about it on 
several occasions. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Metro responded to Mr G and apologised for the length of time it had taken them to refund 
the £10 into his account. Metro also offered to make a payment to Mr G of £50 as 
compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Mr G wasnt satisfied with 
Metros response and felt that a higher amount of compensation was warranted. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they felt the response Metro had 
issued to Mr G, including the offer of £50 compensation, already represented a fair outcome 
to this complaint. Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Metro have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr G has made a number of points about his complaint, all of which Ive read and 
considered. However, as an informal dispute resolution service, were tasked with reaching a 
fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary 
for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
As such, if Mr G notes that I havent addressed a specific point that hes raised, it shouldnt 
be taken from this that I havent considered that point. Rather, it should be taken that I have 
considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address that point directly to arrive 
at what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Metro dont dispute that they didnt provide the standard of service to Mr G here that he was 
entitled to expect  specifically, they didnt reimburse the £10 to Mr Gs account as quickly 
as they should have done. Metro have apologised to Mr G for this and offered to pay him 
£50 as compensation for the trouble and upset this may have caused. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, and Im aware that Mr G feels that a much 
higher award of compensation should be merited here. But the £50 that Metro have offered 
for the late reimbursement of the £10 does feel fair to me, in consideration of all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I may 
have instructed Metro to pay to Mr G, had they not already offered to do so.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact the reimbursement has had on Mr G, 
including that hes had to go into Metro branch on two occasions and write several additional 
letters to them. And Ive also considered the general framework that this service uses to 
evaluate offers of compensation for upset and inconvenience  further details of which can 
be found on this services website. 
Additionally, Ive also reviewed Mr Gs Metro account statements and have considered that 
the absence of the £10 for the time it was absent appears not to have had any significant 
effect on Mr Gs financial position such that any notable detriment occurred. 
Having taken all these points into consideration, I remain satisfied that the offer of £50 
compensation made by Metro to Mr G for the trouble and upset he incurred in having to 
chase Metro for the reimbursement of £10  including the visits to branch and the letters that 
Mr G wrote  is a fair compensation amount for that inconvenience and frustration. And I 
dont feel that what did happen here does reasonably or fairly merit the higher compensation 
amount which Mr G seeks.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Gs favour, Ill only be 
doing so to instruct Metro to pay the £50 to Mr G that theyve already offer to pay. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Metro must make a payment of £50 to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman