DRN-3579771
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused damage to his property when 
dealing with a claim, and hasnt reimbursed him for it.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on the home emergency section of his home insurance with UKI. While 
UKIs contractor was fixing the problem, they caused damage to a chair and a wall at the 
property. Mr R made a complaint, in response to which UKI offered £350 compensation, 
which it later increased to £450. However it wouldnt agree to repair the wall as it said this 
was excluded under the policy. 
Mr R subsequently brought his complaint to this service and our investigator recommended it 
be upheld. She said she thought the compensation already offered was enough to cover the 
distress caused and the damage to the chair. However she thought UKI should also repair 
the wall.
Mr R accepted our investigators decision but UKI didnt. As agreement hasnt been reached, 
the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has accepted it handled Mr Rs claim poorly. Its engineers didnt always arrive when 
expected and it took more visits than it should have to put things right. Its also agreed that it 
caused damage to Mr Rs chair. Its now offered a total of £450 compensation to make up for 
the distress. And I think this is fair in the circumstances to make up for the distress caused 
and to allow Mr R to purchase a new chair, without the need to provide a receipt for his 
previous one. Mr R and UKI have both accepted this part of the complaint. 
The part of the complaint that remains outstanding is the repair to the wall, as UKI dont 
agree that it would be liable for these. Its pointed to an exclusion in the home emergency 
cover in the policy as well as the definition of emergency assistance that states:
"Emergency Assistance - means work undertaken by an Authorised Repairer to resolve the 
Emergency by completing a repair to temporarily or permanently rectify, repair or prevent 
further damage occurring by making safe the Emergency where possible. It does not include 
the restoration of any decoration, fixtures, fittings or landscaping (e.g. fitted kitchen units, 
floor coverings/tiles, flowerbeds) or the permanent reinstatement of pathways and driveways 
needing to be removed or replaced in order to deal with the Emergency."
So I can see that damage caused while attending an emergency wouldnt usually apply. 
However Mr R has provided photos of the damage and a repair that was attempted by the 
contractors at the time. From this, I dont agree that the term above, or the general 
exclusion, would reasonably apply to the damage that needs fixing here. As it wasnt 
something that was needing to be removed or replaced in order to fix the emergency. But 
instead was damage caused while attending to the emergency, but not that needed to be 
broken in order to carry out a fix. Instead it appears to have been caused by careless work 
by UKIs contractors. 
Further, while I accept the attempted repair was done as a gesture of goodwill, it seems from 
the photos that the repair itself has caused further damage to the wall. And as UKI accept 
that its contractor caused that damage, it follows that it should carry out a repair to rectify it. 
For these reasons, I dont think its fair or reasonable to apply the exclusion in the 
circumstances. As Im persuaded that the damage was caused due to poor work by UKIs 
contractors and wasnt a necessary consequence of the emergency. I therefore agree with 
our investigators recommendation and will require UKI to pay for the repairs to the wall 
caused by its contractors.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
pay to repair the damage to Mr Rs wall that was caused by its contractors. It should also 
pay the £450 compensation it has already offered, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman