DRN-4133977
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded just over £1,000s worth of 
disputed transactions on his personal account.
What happened
Mr H  who is a director of T  has two accounts with Starling Bank. One is a personal 
account  in Mr Hs name  and another is a business account  in Ts name. Both accounts 
have debit cards. This decision relates to Mr Hs personal account.
Mr H called Starling Bank in October 2022 to say that it looked like his wallet had been 
stolen and both debit cards were missing. He asked Starling Bank to cancel Ts debit card 
and any transactions that had come out of Ts account, amongst other things. He said he 
didnt think any transactions would have come out of his personal account as it had less than 
£1 in it at the time. Starling said that around £1,000 had come out of his personal account, 
and that £1,000 had been transferred into it from Ts account. Starling said that all of the 
transactions had been card transactions and that it would treat them as fraudulent 
transactions.
Starling Banking investigated the fraudulent transactions Mr H says had occurred and, 
having done so, said that it didnt think the transactions were fraudulent. Mr H complained 
saying that the transactions were unusual compared to the normally activity on the account. 
Starling Bank didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H complained to us saying that Starling Banks 
unwillingness to help had caused him a great deal of unneeded stress.
One of our investigators looked into Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that there 
was no obvious way a third party could have learnt the cards PIN and so they couldnt say 
that the transactions hadnt been carried out by Mr H or someone close to him. Mr H was 
unhappy with our investigators conclusions. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H called Starling Bank in October 2022 to say that it looked like hed had his wallet stolen 
the previous night and that he didnt have his cards anymore. He said he wanted to cancel 
his cards, get new ones and cancel any transactions coming out. He said that he didnt have 
access to the Starling Bank app as his phone had been stolen as well. He said that the last 
payment hed made was to a parking app for £29 two days earlier. He said both his 
business account card and personal account card had been stolen, and that the last time he 
had his cards was around 9pm the previous evening. The agent he spoke to said they could 
see lots of chip and PIN payments had been made so the person must have known his PIN. 
The agent asked Mr H if he had his PIN written down anywhere in his wallet and he replied 
that this had happened before  that hed had his phone stolen. Mr H said he didnt know 
how the person who had done the transactions knew his PIN, but said theyd got his phone. 
He said he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone. He said there wouldnt be any transactions on 
his personal account as he didnt have any money in it. The agent said there had been a 
number of transactions and that there had been a £1,000 payment into the account from his 
business account.
On the complaint form referring this complaint to us, Mr H said he woke up the day after hed 
visited a few pubs and clubs and noticed that he was missing his mobile phone and four 
bank cards, but he had his wallet still and other bank cards. He said he had a vague 
recollection of being at a cashpoint talking to various people and he said that he seemed to 
remember one person had his phone and his wallet, but he couldnt quite remember. In other 
words, what he told us was materially different in a number of ways to what he told Starling 
Bank when he originally complained. In other words, what he told us was different in a 
number of ways to what he told Starling Bank when he phoned to report his cards, wallet 
and phone missing. More importantly, he didnt say anything about having a vague 
recollection of being at a cashpoint talking to various people and he said that he seemed to 
remember one person had his phone and his wallet. And he also said that the last payment 
hed made was two days before.
I agree with our investigator that Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. I say that because I 
agree with Starling Bank that the person who carried out the disputed transactions must 
have known the PIN for Mr Hs debit card  and other security information too  and theres 
no obvious way they could have learnt this. I accept that a third party could have shoulder 
surfed Mr H if  as he told us  he had withdrawn money from a cashpoint on the evening in 
question. But he made no mention of this when he originally phoned Starling Bank  quite 
the opposite, he said the last payment hed made was two days before. And this wouldnt 
explain how a third party had obtained the other security information they would have 
needed either.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman