DRN-2107059
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to carry out a Chargeback he requested 
following a disputed payment he made using his debit card.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr M attended a seminar and following this paid the organiser a £200 deposit, 
for future services, using his Lloyds debit card. He says after he left the seminar, he read the 
terms and conditions and decided to cancel, but the organiser wouldnt refund the money 
hed paid. Mr M says he believes it was a scam.
Mr M contacted Lloyds in July 2018 and asked it to raise a Chargeback for this payment. 
Lloyds asked Mr M for further information. Mr M sent further information to Lloyds but it 
wasnt from the email address Lloyds had on his file. So it asked this be sent again. Nothing 
further was received. 
Mr M got back in touch with Lloyds in September 2019 unhappy that the chargeback hadnt 
been completed. At this point Lloyds said it was outside the 120 days which VISA allows for 
a chargeback to be requested. So it said it couldnt help him further.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. He asked for 
this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. At this time he also mentioned a further 
three transactions he disputed which had been made with his Lloyds debit card totalling a 
further £350 which he wanted considered as part of this complaint.
The complaint has been passed to me to review and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules for completing a chargeback arent set by Lloyds - they are set by VISA. Despite 
what Mr M thinks, VISA is a separate company. Lloyds explained to Mr M what was needed 
for a chargeback to be completed. And it is entitled to ask for further information. I know 
Mr M says this was sent. But Lloyds has shown us it did ask for this information to be sent 
from his registered email address. Ive nothing to suggest this was done in 2018.
I dont know why it took Mr M a year to get back in touch with Lloyds. But as Lloyds informed 
him, at the point he got back in touch, he was outside the 120 days within which VISA 
requires a chargeback to be raised. So it was correct to say it wouldnt be able to complete a 
chargeback at this point. 
I note that Mr M says he has since been to a small claims court and received a judgement 
for the £200 in his favour against the person who he made the payment to. Because of this, 
he will need to go back to court to seek to enforce this award to get his funds back. So even 
if I were to say that Lloyds had acted incorrectly, I cannot ask Lloyds to pay this to him as he 
could then enforce this court award and have his money returned to him twice, which 
wouldnt be fair.
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong. So Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further. 
Mr M raised a further three payments he disputed following our investigator issuing his initial 
opinion. I have not considered these payments as part of this complaint. Lloyds needs to first 
be able to consider these before this service can get involved. And Ive seen no evidence 
that Mr M has ever raised these transactions as disputed with Lloyds.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman