DRN-4325992
The complaint
Mr B complains that Wakam avoided his home contents insurance policy and failed to return 
his insurance premiums.
What happened
Mr B took out a home contents insurance policy with Wakam. This was purchased online
and was a non-advised sale. In August 2022 he made a claim under the legal insurance part
of his policy and Wakam carried out validation checks. These checks revealed that Mr B had
a County Court judgement (CCJ) issued against him.
Wakam said Mr B had answered the question it asked about the CCJ incorrectly as he
hadnt declared it. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying
misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid the policy and keep the premiums already paid.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should
be upheld. He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and that it was
deliberate or reckless. He thought that Wakam were entitled to avoid the policy and retain
the premium.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the question asked
wasnt clear. He said he thought hed answered correctly and had no intention to deliberately
provide incorrect information.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 July 2023. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Wakam thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he
didnt declare that he had a CCJ against him. Ive looked at the online application process.
Mr B was asked Please confirm if the following statements apply to you and one of the
statements was You have never been made bankrupt or insolvent, been subject to an
individual voluntary arrangement, or ever had a court judgment issued against you, including
any County Court. Mr B could select true or false by clicking on the correct answer, and he
selected true. This statement and Mr Bs response were then sent to Mr B and included in
the Statement of Fact. The answer to the statement was shown as Yes.
Mr B says that the statement was confusing as it was effectively three statements in one.
Whilst I understand the point Mr B is making, I think the overall statement is clear. If a
policyholder had ever had a CCJ, the correct answer would be that the statement was false.
I therefore dont think that Mr B took reasonable care in responding to this statement. I also
note that Mr B was sent the Statement of Fact and was asked to check that the information
was correct. The Statement of Fact repeated the statement and noted the answer as Yes.
If there had been any confusion, Mr B could have queried this with Wakam.
Wakam has told us that it wouldnt have offered cover had it known that Mr B had a CCJ.
This means Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Wakam has said that Mr Bs qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless as he
knew about the CCJ and failed to declare it. However, I disagree  as I dont think Mr B
intended to deliberately, or recklessly, provide incorrect information  but rather I think he
was careless in how he read and answered the question. I say this because Mr B suggests
that the statement was asking him if he had a CCJ  and his answer was yes. However, the
statement is asking Mr B to say whether its true or false that hes never had a CCJ. So, I
think Mr B mis-read the statement and I think this was careless.
Ive looked at the actions Wakam can take in accordance with CIDRA. As CIDRA reflects our
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Wakam to rely on it to
avoid Mr Bs policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. This is
because Wakam wouldnt have offered cover at all had it known about Mr Bs CCJ.
However, as Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless not reckless or deliberate, I
dont think Wakam acted fairly when it declined to refund Mr Bs premiums.
I therefore intend to uphold this complaint in part and require Wakam to refund all premiums
paid by Mr B. I also think it fair for Wakam to pay interest at 8% on this sum from the date
the policy was voided to the date the premiums are refunded to Mr B. I say this because Mr
B has been without the use of this money.
Ive also considered the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience. Whilst Im
satisfied that it was reasonable for Wakam to avoid the policy, I can see from Mr Bs
correspondence that he was caused upset by being accused of deliberately or recklessly
providing incorrect information. I therefore intend to require Wakam to pay Mr B £50
compensation. I think this is fair.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Wakam didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
decision. My final decision and reasoning remain the same as my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Wakam to refund to Mr B his 
policy premiums plus 8% interest. I also require Wakam to pay Mr B £50 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
If Wakam considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman