DRN-3499926
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his application for 
additional borrowing and an interest rate product switch on his mortgage. Nationwide initially 
requested he provide an EWS1 form before agreeing to the additional borrowing, and then 
later confirmed it wasnt needed.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Nationwide, and in September 2020, he applied to take out a new 
interest rate product and some additional borrowing so that he could repay a Help to Buy 
loan. Nationwide instructed a valuer to value the property, but the valuer said that without a 
completed EWS1 form the property was not suitable security for the mortgage. Mr H sent 
Nationwide information from the propertys management company that said an EWS1 form 
wasnt needed for the building, but Nationwide still refused to proceed without a completed 
EWS1 form.
Mr H complained. He said he would need to re-mortgage if Nationwide wouldnt give him the 
additional borrowing and hed already completed on the new rate switch for the existing 
mortgage. He said hed provided evidence that the EWS1 form wasnt needed and so didnt 
understand why Nationwide wouldnt proceed with the application.
Nationwide issued their final response on 29 October 2020. They said that Mr Hs 
correspondence from his propertys management company had been referred to their panel 
valuer for consideration, but they still had concerns. The final response letter acknowledged 
that Mr H had sent them further information on 22 October and that had also been referred 
to the panel for their comments, and theyd get back to him once theyd reviewed it. Given 
the circumstances, and that Mr H had said he would have to re-mortgage if Nationwide 
couldnt give him the additional borrowing, they cancelled the new fixed rate product and 
reverted his mortgage back to the previous rate. 
On 30 October 2022 Nationwide contacted Mr H again and told him that in light of the new 
information hed sent them on 22 October, they no longer required an EWS1 form. On 3 
November 2020 they produced a mortgage offer for the additional borrowing, but Mr H had 
decided to re-mortgage elsewhere, so this didnt go ahead.
Mr H asked our service to look into his complaint. He was unhappy because he believed the 
initial valuation was wrong, and Nationwide refused to consider the information hed sent 
from the management company. He said as a result he had to re-mortgage elsewhere and 
pay for another valuation. He also had to pay for a product fee for the mortgage he no longer 
had and a rate he didnt benefit from. He also wanted compensation.
After the complaint was referred to our service Nationwide offered to refund the product fee 
Mr H had paid as the rate switch had been reversed.
Our investigator considered things and explained that Nationwides offer to refund the 
product fee was fair. She thought Nationwide had acted reasonably in relying on the 
valuation, and the panel valuers responses to the additional information Mr H had provided. 
Nationwide did eventually offer Mr H what he wanted, and he then chose to go elsewhere. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators opinion so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, when Mr H applied for the additional borrowing and Nationwide instructed 
a survey of the property, I think it was reasonable for them to rely on the opinion of the 
valuer when making its lending decision. The valuer is the industry expert, and the valuation 
said that an EWS1 form would be needed before a value could be reached. 
An EWS1 form is a method for building owners to confirm to valuers and lenders that an 
external wall system or balcony has been assessed by a suitable expert. This form was 
introduced in December 2019, and was one of the measures put in place to ensure that 
buildings were safe.   
Nationwide have sent us their policy concerning mortgage applications where a valuer has 
identified that an EWS1 form is needed, and Im satisfied theyve followed their policy during 
Mr Hs application.
When Mr H disputed the need for this form, and sent Nationwide information from his 
propertys management company confirming that an EWS1 form was not needed as the 
building did not meet the height threshold, Nationwide did pass this on to their panel valuer 
for review. The panel valuer confirmed that industry guidance had been updated in January 
2020, and there was no longer a height threshold or limit on buildings that require an EWS1 
form. 
Mr H then spoke to the building company for the property, and they sent him detailed 
information about the construction of the property, and the materials used for the walls, as 
well as the plans that contained the construction information. Once that information had 
been passed to the panel valuer, Nationwide were happy to set aside the requirement of the 
EWS1 form and issued a mortgage offer for the additional borrowing Mr H had asked for.
I dont think that just because Nationwide were ultimately willing to lend more money to Mr H 
without having an EWS1 form, that means they should have accepted the application from 
the start. Im satisfied that the information Mr H was able to provide from the builders was 
much more detailed and specific than the information he had previously given, and I think it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the opinions of their panel valuers before agreeing 
to lend. I havent seen there were any unnecessary delays caused by Nationwide throughout 
this process, and ultimately it was Mr Hs decision to re-mortgage elsewhere after 
Nationwide had offered him the additional borrowing.
Mr H had taken out a new product on his existing lending, for which he paid a fee. But I think 
Nationwide acted reasonably by reversing the product switch and refunding the fee he paid. 
Nationwide had not charged Mr H for the valuation they instructed, and so he hasnt had to 
pay two valuation fees.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im not persuaded 
Nationwide need to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. It 
appears the refund of the product fee has already been paid. But if it hasnt been, 
Nationwide Building Society should now pay this to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Kathryn BillingsOmbudsman