DRN-3954698
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined his 
claim and cancelled his policy because they said hed not answered their health and lifestyle 
questions accurately when hed applied for the policy.
What happened
In 2021, Mr M applied to L&G for a joint life policy with his wife.  As part of that application, 
he had a mini-medical.  The nurse who performed that medical told him his blood pressure 
was elevated.  As a result, L&G offered the policy at a higher premium.  Mr and Mrs M didnt 
take up this policy.
In mid-2022, Mr M made a new application  through a broker - to L&G for life and critical 
illness cover.  He again had to complete a health and lifestyle questionnaire, which he did by 
answering questions put to him by the broker.
The questionnaire included a question:
During the last 5 years have you been told that your blood pressure is raised?
Mr M answered yes to that question.  As a result, he was asked a series of further 
questions including:
Has your GP or practice nurse told you that your blood pressure has returned to normal?
Mr M answered yes.
L&G double checked this response shortly after the application and Mr M confirmed the 
answer should have been no.  Following this, L&G wrote to Mr M telling him they were 
requesting his medical records from his GP and they would re-assess his application when 
they had them.  And they said this may lead to the policy being changed or cancelled.
Mr Ms medical records showed hed not had his blood pressure checked since hed been 
told it was high.  And L&G saw that Mr M had been referred for a biopsy  but that hed 
answered no to the question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 12 
months has youbeen referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example, biopsy, 
scan, ECG?
Shortly after the application was completed, Mr M had the biopsy, which unfortunately 
confirmed he had mouth cancer.  He submitted a critical illness claim to L&G.  L&G declined 
the claim, cancelled Mr Ms policy, and said theyd refund any payments hed made.
Mr M complained to L&G about their decision and asked them to keep his claim open.  L&G 
responded, confirming their decision was unchanged.  They said that theyd not been given 
accurate answers to questions in the application  and, if they had been, they wouldnt have 
provided cover at that time.  And they said theyd told Mr M there was a possibility theyd 
change or cancel his policy as a result of reviewing his medical records.  L&G confirmed 
that, as Mr Ms policy had been cancelled, there was nothing to claim against and his claim 
was closed.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response and brought his complaint to us.  He said hed 
answered all the questions truthfully and thought his policy had been cancelled because he 
tried to claim on it.
Our investigator looked into things and concluded L&G didnt need to do any more to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint.  He explained that, in cases of misrepresentation, insurers need to follow 
the criteria set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  
known as CIDRA.  He was satisfied theyd done that in Mr Ms case.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and said hed not been advised following the 
2021 application to get his blood pressure checked  which was why he didnt take any 
action.  Ive now been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  I know that decision will be 
unwelcome and Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons Ive made it.
As our investigator explained, we have to consider whether L&G dealt with the 
misrepresentation they say was made in line with CIDRA.  CIDRA requires consumers to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies - provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.  For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.  
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G say Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make misrepresentations in relation to 
the answers he gave about his blood pressure and about the fact he was due to have a 
biopsy.  Ill consider those separately.
The blood pressure questions
Theres no dispute that Mr M said hed been told he had raised blood pressure.  L&G say his 
misrepresentation here was that hed been told it had returned to normal, although his 
records show hed not consulted his GP about this.  Mr M says L&G didnt send him anything 
advising he should get his blood pressure reviewed.  And he said he made an honest 
mistake when he said a medical professional had confirmed his blood pressure had returned 
to normal.
Ive thought carefully about this.  And Ive listened to the recording of the call during which 
Mr M answered the health and lifestyle questions.  In response to the question:
During the last 5 years have you been told that your blood pressure is raised?
Mr M said:I did have someone say it was high blood pressure, but I never went to the doctor about it.
And later in the conversation, in relation to who told him that, Mr M said:
it was when I had I think it was with the previous [indistinct] I think someone came 
outso I dont know whether she was a nurse or whatever she wasthey did the test and 
she said it was slightly high and to go and check it out.
The broker asked if everything was back to normal, to which Mr M replied yes.
Im satisfied from this exchange that Mr M that he knew he had raised blood pressure as a 
result of his previous medical check.  And hed not had it checked since.  The question is 
clear.  So I think its reasonable to say he didnt take reasonable care when he told the 
broker his blood pressure had returned to normal.
The biopsy question
Ive set this question out above.  Mr M says he did answer it with reasonable care because 
the question is prefaced with: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application.
And hed already told the broker he was having a biopsy when they discussed his mouth 
ulcer. 
Again, Ive listened to the call recording Mr Ms provided.  And Ive considered the copy of 
the questions and answers he sent us.
I agree with our investigator that I understand why Mr M didnt mention the biopsy when he 
was asked the question.  The call recording evidences that hed told the broker about it 
earlier in the conversation theyd had about his mouth ulcer  which was disclosed on the 
form.
But the application details Mr M has sent us didnt ask any follow up questions about the 
mouth ulcer.  And, because the question about the biopsy was answered no that meant 
L&G didnt have that piece of information.  And Ive noted that section of questions starts 
with:
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway.   
Taking these into account, Im satisfied this question wasnt answered with reasonable care 
either.  I appreciate Mr M answered the questions through a broker.  But Im satisfied they 
didnt give L&G accurate on which to assess the risk of offering Mr M a policy because they 
misrepresented his health.
Ive gone onto consider whether this was a qualifying misrepresentation within the meaning 
of CIDRA.  L&G have evidenced that, had they known about the true position about the 
blood pressure and the biopsy, they wouldnt have offered Mr M cover at that time.  So Im 
satisfied the misrepresentations were qualifying ones.
Finally Ive thought about the remedy L&G have applied.  As our investigator explained, L&G 
havent said whether they consider the misrepresentation to be careless, reckless, or 
deliberate.  But theyve applied the remedy available to them in cases where the 
misrepresentation is careless and theyve shown they wouldnt have offered cover  which is 
to say theyve declined the claim, cancelled the policy, and refunded the premiums.  Thats in line with CIDRA and I think thats reasonable.  And for that reason, I dont think 
L&G need to do any more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman