DRN-4301535
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc closed his ISA without his permission and didnt 
have it recorded on their systems that he was a vulnerable customer.
What happened
Mr B opened a cash ISA and deposited money into it. However, Santander later closed this 
ISA without his permission and returned the deposited money to the account Mr B sent it 
from. Mr B wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that Santander didnt have it 
recorded on their systems that he was a vulnerable customer. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Mr B and explained that they had closed his newly opened cash 
ISA because he had already funded another cash ISA that he held with them in that tax year. 
Santander also explained that the ISA rules include that only one ISA of any type (such as a 
cash ISA) can be funded in any single tax year. But Santander did apologise to Mr B for not 
previously having it on record that he was a vulnerable customer, and they made a payment 
of £30 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset this may have caused. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd administered Mr Bs ISAs. And they felt the £30 Santander had paid to 
Mr B for not previously having it on record that he was a vulnerable customer already fairly 
resolved that aspect of Mr Bs complaint. Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that the didnt fund two cash ISAs in the same year as Santander say that he 
did. But Santander have been able to demonstrate that Mr B had an existing cash ISA and 
made a payment of £1 into that cash ISA on 11 April 2023. 
In their response to Mr Bs complaint, Santander correctly informed Mr B that the ISA rules 
include that only one ISA of any type can be funded in any single tax year. This meant that 
because Mr B made the £1 payment into his previously existing cash ISA on 11 April 2023, 
he was only able to fund this cash ISA  and no other cash ISA  until the end of the tax 
year in April 2024.
But on 13 April 2023, just two days after Mr B paid £1 into his previously existing cash ISA, 
Mr B opened a new cash ISA with Santander and paid money into that new cash ISA. This is 
not permitted by the ISA rules, as explained above. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Santander didnt do anything wrong or act unfairly when 
they voided the new cash ISA and returned the money in that voided ISA to the account that 
Mr B transferred it from. Indeed, because Mr B had breached the ISA rules by funding two 
cash ISAs in the same year, Im satisfied that Santander couldnt reasonably have acted in 
any way other than how they did here.
Mr B has explained that he opened the new cash ISA because after making the £1 payment 
into his existing cash ISA he was prevented from making a further payment into that 
account. But one of the other ISA rules is that total deposits for any one tax year cant 
exceed £20,000. And Santander have confirmed that after Mr B made his £1 payment, he 
then instructed a payment of £19,999.99  which would meant that Mr B would have made 
payments totalling £20,000.99 and so would have exceeded the £20,000.00 annual ISA 
allowance by £0.99.
It seems probable that Mr B hadnt intended to transfer £19,999.99 but had instead intended 
to transfer £19,999.00. This would have taken the total payment to £20,000.00 exactly, 
which would have been permitted. But unfortunately, it appears that Mr B made an error in 
his instruction. And because that error  the additional £0.99  would have breached ISA 
rules, this is why the instructed payment was rejected. And given Santanders obligations to 
ensure that ISA rules are adhered to, this seems both fair and reasonable to me.
Mr B is also unhappy that Santander didnt have it on record that he was a vulnerable 
customer when he spoke with them in April 2023. Santander have apologised for this and 
confirmed that they had no record that Mr B should be considered as a vulnerable customer 
before April 2023. Santander also logged Mr B as being a vulnerable customer, thereby 
correcting the position, and made a payment of £30 to him as compensation for any upset or 
trouble this may have caused.
Unfortunately, because the issue here is that Mr B wasnt previously recorded as being a 
vulnerable customer, Santander arent able to explain why he wasnt previously recorded as 
such  because Santander have no previous information on their records about that point. 
Accordingly, I feel a fair outcome here is that Santander should ensure they do now have it 
logged that Mr B should be considered as a vulnerable customer  which they now do  and 
that Santander should pay a small amount of compensation to Mr B for what took place. 
Santander have made a payment of £30 to Mr B as compensation for this matter. Ive 
considered the impact that not being recorded as a vulnerable customer has had on Mr B. 
Having done so, I feel that the fact that this matter hasnt been discovered before now 
suggests that it hasnt had any significant impact on Mr B before this time. 
In full consideration of the circumstances of this complaint, as Mr B has described them, 
along with a consideration of the general framework which this service assesses when 
assessing compensation amounts  details of which are on this services website  I feel that 
£30 is a fair compensation amount for this matter. As such, I wont be instructing Santander 
to make any further payment of compensation to Mr B beyond this amount.
Finally, Mr B is unhappy with how Santander have handled his complaint, including that a 
member of Santanders complaints team was rude to him on the telephone. However, as per 
the rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  this service is only able 
to consider complaints about specified activities, of which complaint handling isnt one. 
In short, this service cant consider a complaint about how a business has handled a 
complaint. And this means that this aspect of Mr Bs complaint  about how Santander 
handled his complaint  isnt one that its within my remit to consider here.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take 
any further action. This is because Im satisfied that Santander didnt act unfairly by administering Mr Bs ISA accounts as they did, and because I feel the £30 that Santander 
have paid Mr B for not having it recorded that he should be considered as being a vulnerable 
customer already fairly resolves that aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman