DRN-1656724
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in January 2000. Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited (then known as Egg) mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P. Ill explain why Im not upholding his case below.
Based on the information Ive seen I think Mr Ps PPI policy was bought through an internet 
application. Egg shouldve made Mr P aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr P 
says that Egg did not make it clear the PPI was optional. He says that the PPI box was pre-
ticked and he was unable to proceed with the application without the PPI being purchased. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr P has said whilst reviewing the information Egg has 
provided about how the PPI was sold. Egg has provided screen shots of the web pages Mr P 
wouldve seen when completing his application. The screen shot show that customers were 
given the options Yes and No to select or decline PPI. There isnt any indication on these 
screen shots that Yes had to be selected in order to move forward with the application. 
Ive also seen a copy of the information Mr P entered during his application with Egg, 
and that shows the Yes option was selected for PPI. Given that there was also a No 
option, I think its more likely Mr P chose to take it out. Considering how long ago the sale 
was its understandable he no longer remembers it.
So on balance I think Egg made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it out.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him 
and met his individual needs. Instead it had to make sure Mr P got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr P says the benefits of the policy were not made clear to him. Its possible the information 
Egg gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out 
the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr P was 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it wouldve been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Mr P says he was made redundant in 2004 and he didnt 
claim under the policy which shows he didnt know he had it. It seems this PPI policy ended 
in 2001 so Mr P would not have been able to claim under this specific policy at the time he 
was made redundant. Mr P says he wouldve received significant employer benefits if he was off work sick or was 
made redundant. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy package 
Mr P wouldve received and it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if necessary. This wouldve 
allowed Mr P to use his employer benefits to cover any other expenses and costs he may 
have had to cover. So, I think he wouldve found the additional protection the policy provided 
useful.
Mr P says he wouldve been able to rely on family for help if he required financial help. 
However, circumstances can change, and this help cant have been guaranteed for Mr P if 
and when he may have needed it. Mr P says he had savings, but the PPI wouldve 
allowed Mr P to keep these savings intact. Mr P has also referred to equity stock which he 
says he couldve liquidated immediately if needed. The PPI wouldve allowed Mr P to keep 
this stock in place, and there would also be no guarantee of how long any funds from the 
stocks wouldve been able to assist Mr P. The PPI provided the security of knowing that his 
payments wouldve been covered for up to 12 months. Mr P has also mentioned a separate 
insurance policy he had at the time, however exact details of this havent been provided. In 
any event, the PPI may have paid out alongside any other insurance Mr P may have had, 
depending on the type of policy it was, and it couldve provided additional help to Mr P at 
what would undoubtedly be a challenging time.
The PPI cost Mr P 59p per £100 of Mr Ps monthly statement balance. There isnt anything 
to show this wasnt affordable to Mr P. And as the policys premiums were paid monthly and 
separately detailed on his statements, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his 
needs. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman