DRN-3340182
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as O, complains about the administration of its bridging loan by 
Social Money Limited (trading as SoMo).
Ms L, director of O, brings the complaint on O's behalf.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide here 
only an overview of some of the key events.
In September 2019, O took out a bridging loan with SoMo. 
In spring 2020, O sought a partial redemption of its loan, financed through the sale of one of 
the properties which was acting as security for the loan. However, SoMo did not release its 
charge on the property, which was necessary for the sale to proceed. Instead, at risk of 
moving into much more expensive default terms, O sought to extend its loan. This was 
initially refused. SoMo explained that a complaint O had brought at that time to our service 
had made its investors unwilling to lend further to O. However, following the intervention of 
our service, the loan was extended. 
During its interactions with SoMo, O found it unreasonable in its demands and 
unprofessional in its communication. O provided one email from SoMo in which it was 
suggested that the director of O might be lying and seeking to swindle SoMo. O also noted 
administrative errors, such as wrong addresses and absent dates in communication.
O complained about how it had been treated by SoMo through this period. SoMo responded 
in November 2020 to offer O £350 as a gesture of goodwill.
Not content with this response, and continuing to feel insulted and bruised by its interactions 
with SoMo, O brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Os complaint but found that, although SoMos behaviour had 
left Os directors frustrated and distressed, SoMo had not acted unreasonably in its 
application of the terms and conditions of its agreement with O. While the investigator 
acknowledged the offence caused to the director of O by SoMo, he felt that its offer to O of 
£350 was fair in all the circumstances.
As O did not agree with this view, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between O and SoMo over the relevant 
period, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider central to this 
complaint. There are two key issues:
Did SoMo act unreasonably in refusing O the opportunity to make a partial 
redemption of its loan or in how it initially denied O the opportunity to extend its loan 
in spring 2020?
Did SoMo act unreasonably and inappropriately in its communication with its 
customer?
I consider each in turn.
Loan redemption and extension
O believes that SoMo sought to frustrate its attempts to reduce the extent of its debt to 
SoMo, with the incentive of seeking to push O into default, which would have resulted in O 
owing SoMo substantially more.
It appears to me that SoMo could have done more to support its customer through a difficult 
trading period. However, I believe SoMo has put forward a credible account of why it was 
unwilling to flex its agreement with O, both in the partial redemption request and initially in 
the subsequent loan extension. I have seen nothing to indicate that SoMo breached the 
terms of its agreement with O, and O has not suggested that it did.
Therefore, I cannot reasonably say that SoMo did anything wrong in how it refused O the 
opportunity to make a partial redemption of its loan or in how it initially denied O the 
opportunity to extend its loan in spring 2020.
SoMos communication with O
O believes that SoMo acted unprofessionally in its dealings with O.
Given that SoMo did not provide O with what it was seeking, it is not surprising that Os 
directors felt frustrated and distressed by SoMos behaviour. The situation was highly 
stressful, with considerable amounts involved, and the risk of moving into default was very 
real. As stated above, I believe that SoMo acted within the terms of its agreement with O, but 
the fact it was unwilling to be more flexible, particularly given the difficult circumstances in 
which O found itself in the pandemic, resulted in some fraught interactions between SoMo 
and O. In particular, the suggestion in one email that the director of O might be lying and 
trying to swindle SoMo appears to me to have had no basis, and understandably left Os 
director feeling insulted. 
However, this complaint has been brought to us by O, which was SoMos customer; and O, 
as a company, cannot experience distress. So, while some of SoMos behaviour might have 
added unnecessarily to an already stressful situation, I am unable to require SoMo to 
compensate Os director for it. 
It appears to me that O did suffer some inconvenience, which could have been avoided, but 
the extent of correspondence between SoMo and O resulted principally from their differing 
views on the way forward. I have also considered Os comments about the administrative 
errors in SoMos communication, such as wrong addresses and absent dates, but I have not 
seen evidence to indicate that these errors led to any loss or material inconvenience for O.SoMo has confirmed that its previous offer of £350 to O remains available. In all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think this is a reasonable outcome. While I acknowledge 
that O will feel it is owed much more, for the reasons Ive set out above I do not think I can 
reasonably require SoMo to pay O anything further. 
I would add that I believe O is owed an apology for the suggestions made about Os director, 
but I will leave that as a matter for SoMo to consider.
My final decision
My decision is that Social Money Limited should pay O the £350 it has previously offered.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman