DRN-3090298
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd turned down his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr Y holds an income protection policy with Zurich, the aim of which is to pay benefit in the 
event he cant work because of accident or illness. 
In November 2019, Mr Y stopped work because of a condition affecting his spine. He 
submitted a claim to Zurich. 
Unhappy with the length of time Zurich was taking to make a claims decision, Mr Y brought a 
complaint to this service. Meanwhile, Zurich assessed the claim, but said it wasnt payable 
for financial reasons.
Our investigator looked into both these issues, but didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He thought Zurich had been right to say that there was no benefit due to Mr Y, and 
he also didnt think Zurich had caused any unreasonable delays. 
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich didnt make a decision on whether Mr Y met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive 
therefore only considered whether Zurich was correct to turn down the claim because it 
thought Mr Y didnt meet the policys financial requirements. Although Zurich didnt issue a 
final response to Mr Y on this issue, Ive assumed that its happy for this service to consider 
this point, based on its correspondence with our investigator. 
The policy explains theres a limit on the amount of benefit that can be claimed. The 
maximum amount is 60% of the claimants earnings immediately before stopping work. It 
explains the reason for this is so that theres an adequate incentive for the claimant to return 
to work.
The policy also says that when working out the amount of benefit to be paid, certain 
deductions will be made. This includes:
Any continuing earnings from any source, including any pensions received from previous 
employments.
Mr Ys pre-disability earnings were £26,514 per annum. 60% of this works out as £15,908, 
therefore this was the maximum amount of annual benefit that wouldve been available 
under the policy (so long as Mr Y was insured for this amount). 
However, this amount would be reduced by any continued earnings from any source. Mr Y 
continued to receive a gross salary of £1,500 per month through his company (or £18,000 
per annum). As this exceeded the maximum benefit available under the policy, I find it was 
reasonable for Zurich to conclude that no payment could be made to Mr Y, and therefore 
turn down his claim. 
Though I should point out that Mr Y wasnt actually insured for the maximum benefit of 
£15,908 per annum. His sum assured at the time of the claim was £11,099 per annum, and 
so this was the maximum amount he wouldve been able to claim if his continued earnings 
hadnt exceeded this figure. 
Mr Ys financial situation has since changed, and I understand hes submitted a new claim to 
Zurich. If Mr Y is unhappy with Zurichs new claims decision, he can bring a new complaint 
to this service if he wishes to do so. 
Mr Y is also unhappy about the length of time it took Zurich to reach its decision. I see that 
Zurich initially declined the claim because it thought Mr Y hadnt been working due to the 
Government lockdown, rather than illness. Although Mr Y apparently accepted that at the 
time, he then appealed against this in October 2020. 
However, Zurich wasnt able to progress matters until it had received Mr Ys signed consent 
form. Mr Y had surgery in November 2020, and then he needed to recover from this. The 
consent form was returned to Zurich on 14 December 2020. Zurich then wrote to Mr Ys 
accountant on 15 December 2020, but didnt receive a response until 17 March 2021 
(despite chasing this). Zurich then advised Mr Y on 24 March 2021 that it wasnt accepting 
his claim because his earnings exceeded the maximum benefit available. 
Overall, I dont think Zurich caused any avoidable delays here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman