DRN-2002877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of their travel insurance 
claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It was appropriate for Great Lakes to validate the claim, and so it was reasonable for 
it request further information from Mr Ws GP before accepting the claim. However, 
Great Lakes didnt validate the claim in a reasonable timescale after receiving this 
information. I wouldve expected the claim to have been treated as a high priority 
given the number of medical emergencies.
Although the claim for medical treatment and repatriation has now been accepted by 
Great Lakes, Mr and Mrs W were caused an enormous amount of worry by Great 
Lakes delay in confirming this. Mr W had experienced three medical emergencies 
and had incurred high medical costs as a result, without knowing if Great Lakes 
would cover those costs, or when he would be able to return home. 
Due to Great Lakes delay in accepting the claim, Mr and Mrs W had to make their 
own way back to the UK and without a medical escort. I agree with the investigator 
that arranging their own return to the UK would have been stressful for them. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think it was appropriate for Great Lakes to pay 
Mr and Mrs W financial compensation to acknowledge the impact its delays had on 
them. Great Lakes has offered £1,000, which is in line with the amount I would have 
awarded. I therefore dont require Great Lakes to do anything further, as Im satisfied 
it has offered appropriate compensation. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that Great Lakes 
Insurance SE has offered Mr and Mrs W appropriate compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman