DRN-1880475
The complaint
Mr G is complaining Covea Insurance plc has declined a claim he made for the theft of his 
car on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen so he claimed for the loss on his car insurance policy. Covea declined 
his claim because it said Mr G was not the registered owner or keeper of the car. Covea said 
that had Mr G disclosed that he wasnt the owner and registered keeper of the car, it would 
have declined the cover. 
Mr G didnt think Coveas decision was fair. He said he was the registered owner of the car, 
but changed it when he went on holiday  as the car was then kept on the drive of his friends 
house. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied Mr G had been asked 
on a call with the broker if he was the registered owner and keeper of the car, and he said 
yes to both questions. He also didnt find Mr G had ever been the registered owner, as the 
former owners details had been replaced with Mr Gs friends. Given this, he was satisfied 
Covea hadnt acted unfairly when it had declined Mr Gs claim and treated the 
misrepresentation as reckless. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA says its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer or if it asks a question about facts relevant to the proposed 
risk its covering. If a consumer doesnt take reasonable care and misrepresents something 
which affects whether the insurer wouldve offered the policy or its terms and conditions, its 
known as a qualifying misrepresentation. Based on the information supplied by both parties, 
I find this applies here. 
When an insurance policy is sold, we would expect the correct questions to be asked, and 
we would then look at the answer given and whether the answer was incorrect. Its clear 
from the transcript of the call between Mr G and the broker that Mr G was asked if he was 
the registered owner and keeper of the car  his reply was yes. So Im satisfied the question 
was asked correctly and there is no dispute in my eyes that it was asked in a way that 
should have got the correct answer from Mr G. 
Mr G originally said that he was the registered owner of the car but changed this when he 
went on holiday -but the evidence suggests otherwise. There is no record of Mr G ever 
having been the registered owner according to the V5 document. The V5 document shows 
Mr Gs friend registered the car in his name in January 2017 and prior to that it was another 
third party. 
Covea has provided details of its underwriting criteria and Im satisfied it wouldnt have 
insured Mr G had he said he wanted to insure the car with bis friend being the registered 
owner. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Covea has said Mr Gs misrepresentation was reckless, as the questions were asked clearly 
and Mr G answered them knowing he was never the owner and registered keeper of the car. 
I agree that Mr Gs misrepresentation was reckless for largely the same reasons as the 
business. Based on the fact that Mr G was never the registered owner of the car, Its clear 
Mr G knew the information he provided was untrue or misleading.
As Im satisfied Mr Gs misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the 
actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets out that when theres a qualifying misrepresentation the following can happen. It 
says If the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the insurer can avoid the 
policy and refuse all claims and need not return the premiums, unless it would be unfair to 
the consumer to retain them. 
Having reviewed all of the information provided carefully, I can find no reason why it would 
be unfair for Covea to keep the premiums, given Im satisfied this is to be treated as a 
reckless misrepresentation. 
In summary, Im satisfied Covea has dealt with this claim fairly when they have treated it as 
a reckless misrepresentation  and avoided the policy, refused the claim and kept Mr Gs 
premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman