DRN-3139003
The complaint
Mr H complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) didnt tell him it couldnt 
transfer one of his holdings to another provider. He wants all his holdings with one provider, 
and he wants IISL to compensate him.
What happened
Mr H has an execution only share dealing account with IISL. On 13 May 2019, Mr H 
instructed IISL to transfer his four share holdings to another provider. He says IISL failed to 
tell him that it couldnt transfer one of his holdings, which Ill refer to as P. He wants IISL to 
transfer back the holdings it successfully transferred, so that all his shares are in one place, 
and he wants IISL to refund its monthly charges for 2021/22 and not charge him for the next 
12 months.
IISL said it contacted Mr H on 20 May 2019 to tell him his new provider would not accept the 
holding of P shares, and asked for his further instructions. And it sent him a further email on 
28 May 2019 to tell him that the transfer of his three holdings was complete, but that it 
awaited his instruction for P shares.
After referring his complaint to us, Mr H arranged for his three shareholdings that had been 
successfully transferred to be transferred back to IISL.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that IISL had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
When he complained to IISL and asked to see a copy of its emails dated 20th and 
28th May, it told him these had been lost.
IISL never told him that it couldnt transfer his holding of P shares.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
IISL attempted to act on Mr Hs instructions to transfer all his shareholdings to his requested 
new provider. But that new provider could not accept Mr Hs holding of P shares. This was 
because it couldnt support the holding on its platform. I dont find this is something IISL 
should reasonably have been aware of before it attempted the transfer, and I dont find it did 
anything wrong when it tried to transfer the shares.
IISL has provided this service with copies of its emails to Mr H dated 20th and 28th May 2019, 
and our investigator has sent these onto Mr H. Its not clear to me why Mr H didnt receive 
these when they were originally sent  I can see IISL sent them to Mr Hs correct email 
address and it didnt receive any error message. So, if Mr H didnt receive them, I cant say 
this was due to an error by IISL.
It's unclear why IISL didnt provide Mr H with a copy of these emails when he complained, 
but I dont find this makes a difference to the outcome here.
The emails of 20th and 28th May made it clear that IISL couldnt transfer Mr Hs holding of 
P shares. And it gave Mr H some options of what he could do and asked for his instructions.
In the absence of any further instruction from Mr H, his holding of P shares was retained in 
his account.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but I dont find IISL has done anything wrong here and I cant 
order it to refund or waive any fees.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman