DRN-3706072
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without notice. Hes like 
compensation for the distress.
What happened
Mr L held several current accounts with Monzo. In November 2020 he found that the 
accounts had been blocked. He contacted Monzo through their chat to find out what was 
going on and offered to supply further information on transactions on his account. But he 
was told that the bank had made the decision to close his accounts immediately. They asked 
for details of another account of his in the UK so they could return the balance to him, and 
the money was returned around four weeks later.
Unhappy with this Mr L complained to Monzo about the decision to close his account, and 
the amount of time return his money. But the bank didnt feel theyd done anything wrong. 
They explained theyd made the commercial decision to close his account and didnt need to 
give any reasoning behind this. They said that a specialist team were reviewing information 
on his account, which is why it had taken as long as it did to return the funds. They referred 
Mr L to their terms and conditions, which they said entitle them to close the account at any 
time. They also explained that the notice to close said theyd return the funds within 2-4 
weeks, and theyd kept within these timescales.
Unhappy with this answer Mr L referred his complaint to our service. Since the closure he 
said hed been facing financial difficulties and entered into an IVA. He felt this was down to 
the actions of Monzo.
One of our investigators looked into what happened, but she didnt think Monzo needed to 
do anything further. She explained that under their legal and regulatory obligations the bank 
were entitled to carry out a review of Mr Ls account, and to block the account while they do. 
She said the terms of the account allowed them to close Mr Ls account in the way they did, 
and Monzo made Mr L aware of the length of time it would take for his funds to be returned. 
Overall, she didnt think Monzo had been unfair.
Mr L disagreed, saying that he thought Monzo had breached the terms of his account. He 
said he didnt see how hed met any of the criteria for an immediate closure of the account. 
He said he accepted Monzo could close his account with 60 days notice but didnt think an 
immediate closure was fair.
Because no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. After 
reviewing additional evidence I felt the complaint should succeed. I issued my provisional 
decision which said:
The investigator has correctly highlighted that Monzo have important legal and regulatory 
obligations to meet when providing accounts to customers. These include ongoing 
monitoring of both new and existing accounts and sometimes this means they will need to 
restrict an account while its under review.
Having reviewed the information supplied by Monzo Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
them to review Mr Ls account, and to restrict his access to the account while they did this. In 
any case the decision to close his account was made very quickly after the review began. 
Banks can also close accounts for any reasonable reason and arent under any obligation to 
explain their reasons for doing so, so long as they comply with the terms of the account.
The regulations around payment accounts, and common industry practice is that a closure 
will usually take place with at least 60 days notice. Monzos terms reflect this by giving at 
least two months notice.
Having considered the information supplied by Monzo, Im satisfied that the decision to close 
Mr Ls account wasnt unreasonable in itself. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was irrational, or 
a decision based on incorrect information. Mr L has also accepted Monzo were within their 
rights to close the account.
However, Monzo can only close the account with no notice in a limited set of circumstances. 
The terms go on to say they may close the account immediately if Mr L has:
broken the terms of this agreement
put us in a position where we might break the law
broken the law or attempted to break the law
given us false information at any time
had a change in circumstances which means youre no longer eligible for a current 
account (like moving abroad)
given a third party control of your account, phone, card or PIN (unless youve formally
agreed this with us or are legally permitted to do this)
been abusive to anyone at Monzo or a member of our community.
Ive thought carefully about these points, and Im not satisfied they meet the circumstances 
of Mr Ls account.
While I appreciate Monzo arent obliged to tell their customers about any blocks or reviews, 
its usual practice for an investigation to take place including asking the customer  in this 
case, Mr L, for further information. In particular if there are concerns around specific 
payments or transactions, then the customer can provide context or additional evidence if 
required.
Monzo didnt question Mr L any further around this issue after the account was blocked 
although he did attempt to explain certain aspects of his account usage to them. This 
attempt seems to have been ignored.
Having reviewed the evidence supplied by Monzo, Ive seen nothing to satisfy me the 
circumstances met any of the reasons given for immediate closure. I cant see any 
reasonable justification for closing Mr Ls account in the manner they did. 
Monzo can make the decision to not have Mr L as a customer, so I wont be asking them to 
reopen the account. But I feel it would have been reasonable to give Mr L the full 60 days 
notice of closure. By not doing so, Im satisfied theyve treated Mr L unfairly.
Ive gone on to consider the impact. Mr L has made us aware that while this was his main 
account, he did have accounts open elsewhere. This means he wasnt left entirely without 
banking facilities. I can see from his statements he had regular outgoings  such as Direct 
Debits  that he would then have to move over. I can see how this would be inconvenient for 
him.Monzo have said that they made Mr L aware it may take 2-4 weeks to return his funds to 
him. When banks are carrying out reviews, Id expect them to do this as quickly as possible, 
and not to unnecessarily withhold a consumers funds, so as not to cause the consumer any 
undue trouble. Having reviewed the actions of Monzo, I cant see a reason why it was 
necessary to hold on to his funds as long as they did  even if these were within the stated 
timescales. I can see that Monzo could potentially have released the funds two weeks earlier 
than they did, which would have reduced the disruption to Mr L.
Mr L has suggested by closing the account Monzo caused him enough financial difficulty that 
he had to enter into an IVA. But I note the IVA began over six months after Mr Ls account 
with Monzo was closed, which I consider ample time to arrange new payments to his 
creditors from another account. I dont consider the IVA to be a direct result of Monzos 
actions.
However, Im satisfied that by not giving Mr L 60 days notice of the account closure Monzo 
have caused him material distress and inconvenience, and that it would be appropriate to 
pay some compensation for this. Having considered the impact, I believe an amount of £150 
would be fair.
Both Mr L and Monzo accepted this as an outcome. It only remains then for me to issue my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied with the reasoning in the provisional decision, and the redress 
awarded. Overall I find that Monzo treated Mr L unfairly in not allowing him 60-days notice 
before closing his account. I find that £150 compensation would be a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd must pay Mr L £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman