DRN-2620369
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she took on hire purchase from Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS) was not of satisfactory quality. Specifically, she says that the
boot lid is not operating correctly.
What happened
In June 2018 Miss B took a car from MBFS under a four-year hire purchase agreement. The
agreement recorded that the car had been first registered in December 2017 and had
covered 2,500 miles. The cash price was £34,500, of which just under £15,000 was paid on
credit. Monthly payments were just under £370.
In or about July 2019 Miss B reported problems with the boot lid. She said it wasnt closing
properly and would open by itself. The dealership investigated and replaced a hinge cover
and reattached the tailgate motor. A few weeks later it replaced the support arm and drive
unit. All of the work was carried out under warranty, although the dealership said it was
unable to find any fault.
In October 2019 Miss B said that the boot lid was not opening fully and that the lid had
dropped while she was getting items from the boot. The dealership investigated on two
further occasions but found no fault. It replaced the drive unit and lock, again under
warranty.
MBFS did not accept that there was any fault with the car and Miss B referred the matter to
this service.
During the course of our investigation, Miss B reported further issues and in May 2020
returned the car to the dealership. It replaced the boots drive motor  again, under warranty
 but again was unable to replicate any fault. A diagnostic test did however reveal a stored
fault code.
Our investigator thought that the evidence showed there was a fault with the car and that
Miss B should be entitled to reject it. MBFS didnt agree. It said there was no evidence of a
fault and in any event no issue had been raised until a year after the hire purchase
agreement had been signed. It asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different overall conclusion from the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that Miss B could reasonably expect a nearly-new 
car which was still under warranty to be free of major faults, at least during the warranty 
period. Miss B had first reported issued with the cars boot lid during the warranty period.
I was not however persuaded that the issues Miss B had reported did in fact demonstrate 
that there was a fault. The video evidence she had submitted was, I thought, inconclusive. I 
noted that the dealership had investigated matters but had been able to identify anything 
wrong with the lid or its mechanism, although it had replaced components as a precaution. 
I commented that I had no doubt that Miss B genuinely believed there was a problem, but on 
the other hand, none had been identified. Miss B did not accept my provisional conclusions 
and asked that I look at the case again.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has referred me back to the evidence she submitted earlier and helpfully summarised 
again the occasions on which she says she experienced problems and the steps the 
dealership has taken. In particular, shes referred to the videos she submitted, so Ive 
reviewed them carefully. 
Having done so, however, I am not persuaded that the operation of the boot lid shown is the 
result of a malfunction or fault in the car itself. The videos include some taken from security 
footage from Miss Bs home, so were not taken for the purposes of this investigation. 
Unfortunately, that means they dont show, for example, any key or other operation at the 
time. 
In my view, however, the fact that the dealership has not identified any fault is persuasive, 
especially as it has carried out repairs as a precaution. This is not a case where a fault has 
been found but repairs have failed. Nor is it a case where the car has been inspected on a 
single occasion. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the issues Miss B has experienced show a fault 
with the car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to 
take any further steps to resolve Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman