DRN-3024948
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she  through her husband, Mr F who had authority to act on her 
behalf  had been unable to sell shares when she wanted to, because of a systems issue 
with Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, referred to as the business. 
Mrs F says that the next day, over a phone call, Mr F was told by the business to sell her 
shares, in order to claim back any losses. 
As a result of the business systems failure and subsequent advice, Mrs F says shes 
suffered a significant financial loss, for which the business is responsible. Shes also 
unhappy that the stop loss function didnt work as it shouldve.
Mrs F is being assisted by Mr F. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business acknowledged that it experienced exceptional levels of web and app 
traffic on 9 November 2020, caused by the US election results and announcements 
regarding the Covid-19 vaccine. And due to the increased call volumes, response 
times were delayed. 
Having listened to the call between Mr F and the business, dated 10 November 2020, 
she notes: 
oMr F repeatedly asked the business for a clear answer. 
oHe asked to speak to a manager several times but was told that one wasnt 
available. 
oThe agent told Mr F, multiple times, that the matter would be dealt with by 
another team and couldnt say if the refund would happen. 
oFollowing a fraught exchange the agent explained that shares cant be 
backdated if they havent been sold. Mr F then says, to get them backdated I 
need to sell them now? to which the agent responds precisely. It was at this 
point Mr F decided to sell the shares. 
In the circumstances the agent didnt say anything wrong to Mr F who was clearly 
very concerned about the falling share price and made the decision to sell. 
The business terms and conditions, which Mrs F wouldve agreed to, made clear: 
we will not be liable to you if our systems or services are unavailable to you for 
trading or information purposes for whatever reason.
The stop loss which was set at £96,200 on 9 November, didnt work because owing 
to the ongoing issues the business wasnt able to confirm that Mrs F had the stock 
that she wanted to sell. In any event, Mrs F couldve sold the shares instead of 
putting a stop loss. 
In the circumstances shes not persuaded that the business has done anything 
wrong.  
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He did everything in his power to get through to the business, on the phone, 
computer and app, but couldnt get through until the next day. Hes not sure what 
else he couldve done. 
The stop loss was set up before 9 November 2020, as a safety net but didnt work.  
The business whole function is about trading, so it should stress test its systems to 
ensure that customers have access to its services, as agreed to. And stress test for 
unexpected situations. 
The business should ensure that its IT and phone system is robust and able to 
provide the service that it advertises, and customers pay for.    
Its 100% the business fault. It was also 100% avoidable. 
When a banks system fails and payments arent made, its the banks responsibility 
to reimburse the customer.  
The business terms and conditions dont say that its not responsible if a customer 
cant get through to it or speak to someone. 
It was clear that he was in distress and wanted a clear answer and wanted to speak 
to management, but the adviser led him up the garden path. When he repeated his 
understanding of the matter, the agent said precisely and it was at that point he 
sold. 
He doesnt accept that the business couldnt foresee this situation arising given the 
global political situation with the US election result and Covid-19 vaccine 
announcement. The business knew how many customers it had and therefore how 
many people might want access.   
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, Im not persuaded that just because the business was unable to provide Mrs 
F with immediate access to her platform (and action her intention to sell shares) that it has 
done anything wrong in the circumstances. Therefore, I cant say that the business is 
responsible for any losses she may have suffered. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Fs strength of feeling about this matter. She and Mr F have provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope Mrs F wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, I think its important to remember that the business didnt cause the issue 
that led to Mrs F being unable to access her platform. It was global events that led to what 
appears to be an unprecedented and sudden surge in the number of people wishing to 
access their platforms immediately in order to buy/sell shares that in turn led to a systems 
failure. In the circumstances, the business was simply unable to deal with everyone that 
wanted immediate access to their platform. 
I appreciate what Mr F says about the business undertaking, and the service that Mrs F was 
paying for. But despite this, I dont think its reasonable to expect the business, to have in 
place a system and infrastructure, that allows for it to deal with all (or nearly all) its 
customers at the same time. I dont think this scenario would be commercially practicable 
given the unique situation that led to high volume of investors wanting to contact the 
business all at once and its system going down. So, in this situation I dont blame the 
business for not being able to meet Mr Fs expectation. 
I note the business made clear in its terms and conditions that it wont be liable to its 
customers if its systems or services become unavailable. I appreciate Mr F says thats only 
to cover situations involving momentary loss of access, and doesnt apply in this instance, 
but I disagree. Im unable to safely say that this situation isnt covered by the business terms 
and conditions, where its systems went down, and customers were unable to access their 
holdings. Despite what Mr F says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs F was given a 
guarantee that shed receive an uninterrupted service come what may or that any 
interruption to service that did occur would only be momentary. So, in the circumstances the 
lack of access isnt a reason to uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate what Mr F says about the stop loss that was put in place, but it seems as a 
result of the system going down, the stop loss didnt work either, in the same way that Mr F 
couldnt make a trade. So, I dont think the business is responsible in this instance.  
I appreciate what Mr F says about the phone call with the business, but in the 
circumstances, Im unable to safely say that the business is responsible for any losses 
suffered as result him selling shares on 10 November 2020. Despite what Mr F says, Im not 
persuaded that he was advised or instructed to sell the shares in order to claim any losses, 
as a definite and guaranteed resolution to his complaint.
I think the segment of the conversation that Mr F refers to, and relies upon to justify his 
decision to sell, has been misconstrued. I think the segment needs to be considered in the 
whole, and in the context of a 29 minute and 22 second conversation during which Mr F was 
repeatedly told that another team would have to look into his complaint and get back to him 
with an answer. 
It seems Mr F was told that a solution could be to backdate the share price difference, but 
not that it would be. And it stands to reason that there would be no money to pay if the 
shares hadnt been sold. But in my opinion, this isnt the same as telling Mr F to sell the 
shares, therefore Im satisfied that the decision to sell when he did was entirely his. I note that moments before Mr F sold the shares, he wanted to know if he should sell, and 
the agent confirmed that it was Mr Fs decision. Mr F then replied that wasnt his decision, 
and the agent confirmed that it was unfortunately Mr Fs decision to sell the shares, and the 
business didnt have an open instruction to sell the shares. 
I also note, earlier in the conversation, the agent confirmed that he wasnt saying 100% that 
a refund would be paid, because it wasnt his team that would handle the complaint. In fact, I 
note Mr F was repeatedly told by the agent that he couldnt help resolve the complaint and 
another team would consider it and get back to him. 
Im aware that Mr F wanted a clear answer, but the position, with regards to what he should 
do and a solution to his complaint, was still equivocal, and the agent couldnt tell him what to 
do.  
I note it was only after some persistence from Mr F, and what appears to be a discussion in 
the context of selling the shares, that the agent says precisely to confirm Mr Fs 
understanding of that scenario, at which point he decides to sell. In the circumstances, and 
on balance, given the background this isnt the same as Mr F being advised or told to sell the 
shares.  
Im aware that Mr F was very worried and frustrated at the time. I note hed not been able to 
sleep the night before and had spent the previous day trying to get through to the business 
in order to trade over the phone, online and/or on his app, without any success. Therefore, 
its likely that Mr F, in his quest for a swift and definitive resolution, mis-interpreted what he 
was told. Im aware that Mr F always thought that the right solution to his issue would be to 
sell the shares and re-claim (from the business) the price he wouldve got, had he been able 
to sell the shares the night before  it seems this was the premise on which Mr F acted. 
Im satisfied that Mr F wasnt given any guarantee about any particular course of action 
achieving his aim. Therefore, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant blame the 
business for him selling the shares when he did. 
I appreciate Mrs F will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman