DRN-3498776
The complaint
Miss M complains because AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled holiday under 
her travel insurance policy. 
All references to AWP P&C SA include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Miss M held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by AWP P&C SA, and was due to 
travel abroad in August 2020. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO) first advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Miss M says she therefore didnt travel. She says she contacted her airline and was told she 
could change the dates of her upcoming flights if she paid £160 per person to do so. Miss M 
says she then spoke to AWP, who said  although she could make a claim under her policy 
due to the change in FCDO advice  the fact that the airline would allow her to change the 
dates of the flight for a fee meant Miss Ms costs were recoverable and she didnt have any 
loss to claim for. 
Unhappy, Miss M complained to AWP. When she didnt receive a response, she brought her 
complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and said he thought the cost of Miss Ms 
flights werent recoverable and, so, AWP should consider the claim. AWP didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms 
complaint. 
Theres extremely limited information available to me about Miss Ms policy. I havent had 
sight of the policy terms and conditions and, so, I dont intend to make any finding about 
whether or not I think the circumstances which led to the cancellation of Miss Ms trip are 
insured under her policy. Instead, Ill be addressing only the issue in dispute  whether I 
think its reasonable for AWP to consider Miss M as having recovered her costs from her 
airline because of the offer she was given to rebook her flights for a different date by paying 
a fee. 
Although I havent seen a copy of Miss Ms contract with AWP, I think its likely that Miss Ms 
policy only covers irrecoverable costs (i.e. costs that cant reasonably be recovered from 
another source such as an airline). I say this because, based on my experience of dealing 
with complaints of this type, most - if not all - travel insurance policies on the market only 
provide cover for irrecoverable costs. 
Generally, if a consumer is offered a credit voucher to rebook flights or accommodation, Id 
usually consider this means the policyholder has recovered their costs and therefore has no 
outstanding financial loss to claim for under their travel insurance policy. This is subject to 
the voucher terms as they relate to location, duration and transferability not being 
unreasonably restrictive and/or any exceptional circumstances which a consumer might 
have. 
But Miss M wasnt offered a credit voucher by her airline. She was offered the option to 
rebook flights on a later date for the payment of a fee. I dont think this option to rebook is 
the same as the offer of a credit voucher. The option to rebook would have necessitated 
Miss M spending money over and above her initial financial outlay which was insured under 
her policy. Miss M never received a refund for her flights from her airline, as the flights went 
ahead. So, overall, Im satisfied that the costs which Miss M is claiming for are irrecoverable. 
In any event, even if I were to consider that an offer to rebook for the payment of a fee was, 
in effect, the same as a credit voucher, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for AWP to consider Miss Ms costs as having been recovered from 
elsewhere. This is because of what Miss M has told both us and AWP about her financial 
situation.   
The fact that the money for Miss Ms original flights may have been gifted to her doesnt 
change my decision. Theres no suggestion that the money was a loan which had to be 
repaid, or that the person(s) who gifted her the money at Christmas have any claim to the 
proceeds of any potential insurance settlement made to Mrs M. The money was Miss Ms to 
do with as she pleased, and Im satisfied she has suffered a financial loss.  
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA must treat the costs Miss M is claiming for as an irrecoverable loss and 
assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of her policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I direct AWP P&C SA to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman