DRN-3721321
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the market value Tesco Underwriting Limited paid to settle a 
total loss claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs car was involved in an incident and as a result of the damage, Tesco made the 
decision to settle his claim as a total loss. This meant Tesco paid Mr B the market value of 
his car at the time of loss. 
Mr B thought the valuation was too low and so he complained to Tesco. But Tesco said it 
had reached a valuation correctly. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator looked at the 
four available main motor trade guides in line with our approach. She also looked at online 
adverts for similar cars and thought the lowest of the guides - which Tesco had included - 
should be discounted as it was out of kilter with the other available information. 
The Investigator thought Tesco should pay the average of the remaining three guides, which 
meant Tesco should increase the total loss settlement by £446, and pay interest on the 
difference. 
Mr B accepted the Investigators view. Tesco doesnt agree that the lower valuation should 
be discounted - or that the higher valuation should be included. It says it has paid a fair 
valuation for Mr Bs car. 
Tesco wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation but we look at whether an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Tesco says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the car at the 
time of loss. It defines the term Market Value as; 
the cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition immediately before the loss or damage happened.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main motor trade 
guides provide valuations based on likely selling prices of cars similar to Mr Bs. We find 
generally they tend to be more reliable than adverts as there can be some room for 
negotiating the price down built into a sellers asking price. 
However, because of recent changes in the market, we are aware that second hand cars are 
selling for very close to the asking price. So I think its reasonable to take this into account 
when deciding if a valuation has been reached fairly. 
Tesco relied on two of the four main motor trade guides to reach its valuation of £8,318. This 
was based on the average of two valuations of £8,060 and £8,575. 
Mr B said that when looking for similar cars to replace his written off car, the selling prices 
were between £9,000 and £10,000. 
Our Investigator looked at all of the available guides. This showed valuations ranging 
between £8,060, £8,295, £8,860 and £9,138. Online adverts showed similar cars for sale at 
around £9,000. With this in mind, the Investigator thought it wasnt reasonable to include the 
lowest valuation of £8,060 as this was out of kilter with the other information available. 
So, based on the average of the remaining guides, a valuation for Mr Bs car comes to 
£8,764. This is £446 more than the settlement Tesco paid of £8,318 for Mr Bs car. 
I think its fair to discount the lowest valuation in this case as it is out of kilter with the 
remaining guides and with the advertised selling prices for a similar car to Mr Bs. In light of 
what we know about the market for selling second hand cars, I think a fair outcome in this 
case is for Tesco to pay the difference of £446 to Mr B for the market value of his car. I think 
Tesco should pay interest on this sum from the date of the claim to the date it pays Mr B at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr B £446 as the difference in the market value for his car. 
Pay interest on this sum from the date of the claim to the date Tesco Insurance 
Limited pays Mr B at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman