DRN-3220555
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mrs and Mr J made to more 2 life limited (M2LL) for 
an equity release mortgage. The application was submitted through an independent financial 
advisor (IFA). Mrs and Mr J are unhappy that M2LL cancelled the application at a late stage 
after it was confirmed that a familial connection existed between Mrs and Mr J and their IFA, 
and that individual was an intended beneficiary of a gift from the proposed lending. This left 
Mrs and Mr J with an abortive legal bill of around £900.
A second element of the complaint is that M2LLs solicitors issued a mortgage offer to 
Mrs and Mr Js initial solicitor after their IFA had informed M2LL a different solicitor had been 
instructed. Mrs and Mr J are represented in the complaint by their IFA.
What happened
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs and Mr Js IFA asked for it 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr J, their IFA, and M2LL. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr J being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs and Mr J are 
consumers, and so meet the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Mrs and Mr Js IFA is bringing the complaint on their behalf.
But I must explain that, although the IFA represents Mrs and Mr J, it is they who are M2LLs 
customer. Its the IFAs role is to bring the complaint on their behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle the IFA to air his own grievances about M2LL, because he is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting forward Mrs and Mr Js complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the data protection issue first. 
Its regrettable that details of the proposed mortgage were released to the wrong solicitor; 
Ive noted how the data breach happened (M2LLs message notifying its solicitor of the 
change wasnt actioned in time to prevent the offer being issued to Mrs and Mr Js original 
solicitor) and am satisfied M2LL took reasonable steps to limit the impact of the breach. It 
also offered Mrs and Mr J £250 compensation for trouble and upset. In the circumstances, I 
consider that fair; theres nothing in the evidence to suggest the breach caused any harm or 
detriment to Mrs and Mr J. If no offer of compensation had been made, I would not award 
more.
The main crux of the complaint is the cancellation of the mortgage; more specifically, how 
long it took for M2LL to discover the familial connection and respond to it. M2LLs defence is 
that much of the initial processing is automated, limiting the opportunity to identify that the 
applicants and IFA shared the same surname. Mrs and Mr Js IFA doesnt accept this; he 
argues there would have been several human (rather than automated) activities on the 
application that would have given the necessary opportunity.
Ive given that a lot of consideration, but Im not persuaded its what the outcome of the 
complaint turns on. In my view, the responsibility for establishing the familial connection (and 
the benefit accruing to the IFA from the transaction going ahead) didnt lie with M2LL. This 
was, by any reasonable analysis, material and relevant information and was something for 
Mrs and Mr J and/or their IFA to disclose to M2LL at the outset.
As it was, M2LL only found out about the familial connection at a late stage, and its response 
was a fair one. Rather than immediately cancel the application, it carried out a review 
process to see if it would still be possible for the transaction to go ahead. The review took 
two weeks, and the decision reached was that the transaction couldnt go ahead, due to the 
potential for a conflict of interest. I dont consider that decision, or the time taken to reach it, 
unreasonable.
On the point about conflict of interest, Mr and Mr Js IFA seems to think we havent 
understood his explanation of the distinction between a potential and actual conflict of 
interest. He says the latter is what matters, and he is satisfied no actual conflict existed, 
because Mrs and Mr J were clearing benefitting from the transaction. That may be so, but so 
was he; in any event, and I dont mean this unkindly, its not the IFAs opinion that is relevant 
here. 
If M2LL considered that there was a risk of a conflict of interest, whether potential or actual, 
in lending to a couple who had been advised to borrow the money by a family member who 
was to receive some of the borrowed funds, that was solely M2LLs judgement to make. 
Generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement, and I see no reason to depart from that position here.
The fact that a different lender subsequently agreed to lend in the same circumstances 
doesnt invalidate the legitimacy of M2LLs position. Every lender has its own appetite for 
risk.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs and Mr J to decide whether, on further 
reflection, they wish to accept M2LLs offer of £250 in full and final settlement.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman