DRN-3166261
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs I complain that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed their accounts, 
without giving advance notice and without explaining why it had done so. They believe 
Metros actions were motivated by discrimination on the grounds of their race.
What happened
On 8 August 2019, Metro blocked Mr H and Mrs Is accounts while it carried out a review. It 
didnt give Mr H and Mrs I notice of the block and it didnt tell them why it had done so. As 
part of the review, Metro requested information from Mr H and Mrs I, which they provided 
swiftly. Metro didnt complete its review until 22 April 2020, at which point it issued Mr H and 
Mrs I with 60 days notice to close their accounts.
During the block, Mr H and Mrs I had complained to Metro and had instructed solicitors to 
negotiate a release. Metro issued a final response to Mr H and Mrs Is complaint on 23 
August 2021, but it didnt give Mr H and Mrs I any further information, and Metro maintained 
the account blocks until it issued the notice to close.
Mr H and Mrs I brought their complaint to our service. They wanted Metro to reinstate their 
accounts and explain the reasons for the block. 
Mr H also complained about Metros actions in connection with a limited company he owned, 
born out of identical circumstances, but I will address that complaint separately because the 
limited company is a separate legal entity.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Metro was fulfilling its statutory 
obligations by blocking and reviewing the accounts, that it had acted in accordance with the 
terms of Mr H and Mrs Is accounts, and that it had acted fairly.
Mr H and Mrs I didnt accept our investigators view. Mr H said Metro had breached its own 
terms of business, Financial Conduct Authority Regulations, and European Union 
Regulations. He detailed the losses he was claiming as a result of Metros actions and he 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr H and Mrs I, I would need to be satisfied that 
Metro acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, 
Im satisfied Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr H 
and Mrs Is account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions 
that governed the relationship between Metro and Mr H and Mrs I.
I appreciate Mr H is frustrated that Metro hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about his complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, Metro 
doesnt have to give a reason for blocking an account. So, I cant say it did anything wrong 
by not giving Mr H this information when he complained. And, having investigated Metros 
rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the accounts and complete the 
investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated Mr H or 
Mrs I unfairly.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps Metro took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Mr H and Mrs Is accounts say that Metro can close the same as long as it 
gives at least 60 days notice. And I can see Metro gave Mr H and Mrs I 60 days notice in its 
letter dated 22 April 2020, so it complied with its contractual obligations.
Further, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Metro to disclose the 
reasons behind its decision to close Mr H and Mrs Is accounts. That being the case, I see 
no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award in Mr H and Mrs Is favour.
Delays
Mr H and Mrs I have also claimed they suffered losses because Metro declined them access 
to the funds in their accounts for an extended period of time. And, while I have said above 
that it was entitled to block the accounts, Metro must complete its review in a reasonable 
timeframe. So, Ive looked at the reasons for the block and the actions it carried out during 
its investigation.
Having done so, I wont be asking Metro to do anything further to put things right for Mr H 
and Mrs I. In the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied Metro acted promptly in 
completing its review, and that there were no unreasonable delays. As such, it follows that I 
cant reasonably ask Metro to pay compensation given Im not satisfied it treated Mr H and 
Mrs I unfairly.
Finally, in terms of discrimination, our investigator has explained our services role. That is to 
say that it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In 
reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and what we 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Metro has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that Metros actions were motivated by its duty to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations, and not Mr H and Mrs Is race.I know this isnt the answer Mr H and Mrs I were hoping for, and I appreciate the limited 
information Ive given them wont answer many of the questions they had. But I hope they 
can take some comfort from what Ive said and in light of an independent third-party 
reviewing Metros actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman