DRN-3638519
The complaint
Mrs W complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, (Transact) 
caused her loss by failures in its duties relating to corporate actions in 2012.
Mrs Ws complaint was brought by her representative and Ive referred to Mrs W when 
referring to things said or done by her or on her behalf by her representative.
What happened
Mrs W held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in funds Ill call X and Z - and 
bonds Ill call Y that were issued by X. Transact was registered as the legal owner of 
the holdings which were held within Mrs Ws self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
X and Z were legally based in the Marshall Islands.
In May 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice, saying it intended to restructure X 
by merging it into a new company. According to the notice, more and final details of this 
corporate action were expected in four weeks or so with it completing some months later. 
The notice said the redemption period for shares was being immediately extended to 
almost a year. Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mrs W or her advisers.
In August 2012 the operator of Z sent Transact a notice of a pending corporate action, 
saying it intended to restructure Z by merging it into a new company. According to the 
notice, the final merger plan and documentation for this corporate action were expected 
in one to four weeks with it completing within a further four weeks. The notice said the 
redemption period for shares in Z was being immediately extended to almost a year.
Towards the end of August 2012 Transact was notified of the details of Xs restructure. 
There would be a merger and Mrs Ws shares in X would be exchanged for bonds issued 
by the new company. Reference was made to bondholders of X likewise receiving the 
same new bonds. Transact sent notice of all this to the adviser it had on its records as 
being Mrs Ws adviser. Transact did this in September 2012. The restructure completed 
later and Mrs Ws shares in X and the bonds it issued (Y) were exchange for new bonds. 
Mrs W has said the new bonds became virtually worthless.
Towards the start of October 2012, Zs operator wrote to Transact with plans of the 
merger for Z, notice of a special meeting of shareholders to approve it and an investor 
letter. As a result of the merger, Mrs Ws shares in Z would be exchanged for bonds 
issued by the new company. The notice said the bonds would have a five-year term. 
Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mrs Ws adviser.
The restructure of Z completed in November and Mrs Ws adviser was notified. At the 
end of the five-year term, Mrs Ws bonds werent redeemed. They still havent been 
redeemed and have a value adjusted to near zero on the Transact statements.
In support of her complaint, Mrs W has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary:
Transact had failed in its duties as a platform provider and as an operator of a SIPP.
The May, August and October 2012 notices were news of a fundamental change to 
Mrs Ws investments and Transact shouldve passed them on to her.
In 2011 Transact added a new adviser account to its records but the party behind this 
request wasnt Mrs Ws adviser firm or authorised to act for it. So Transact incorrectly 
amended its records. As a result, the email address on its file to which it sent news of the 
August 2012 notice about X, wasnt an email address for Mrs Ws adviser. So Transact 
did not notify Mrs Ws adviser. Mrs W says Transacts use of a different reference 
number for the new adviser account and the use of the number 2 after the name of the 
adviser firm means this was a new adviser and not just a second account for an existing 
adviser. She also points out the form for the second account was signed by a director of 
Xs operator and its email address was one used by other firms on Transacts records.
Although her shares didnt give her a vote on the restructures, Marshall Islands law gave 
her a right to object to them and to receive instead a fair value for her shares. If Transact 
had done more earlier to inform her about the restructures and advise her of her options, 
she wouldve been able to exercise and enforce this right and avoid the losses that 
arose. What Transact sent lacked detail and failed to communicate properly the urgency.
The restructures left her with riskier assets and Mrs W believes Transact ought to have 
assessed the appropriateness of these for her.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
The bonds resulting from the restructures werent new holdings Transact was accepting 
into a SIPP on its platform, but changes to existing holdings already held there. So the 
concerns raised specific to due diligence requirements on Transact as SIPP and platform 
provider accepting investments onto its platform or into a SIPP, didnt apply. Likewise, 
advising on options arising in relation to the corporate actions or on ways to go about 
expressing a view on them, fell outside Transacts remit including its responsibilities as a 
custodian safeguarding and administering Mrs Ws investments. 
Transact wasnt wrong to not pass on to Mrs W the May 2012 notice for X. The notice 
didnt detail what would eventually actually happen, there was no action she couldve 
taken with her investment at that point (also, the redemption period had been extended), 
and the notice said full details should be available in around six weeks. 
Transact was right to pass on the information it received in August 2012 with details of 
the restructure of X  and it did this correctly. By doing this in the way it did, Transact 
fulfilled its responsibilities and it didnt need to do more. Transact acted reasonably in 
using the email address it used to pass that information on.
Regarding that email address, adviser firms could have more than one Transact account. 
The email address was given on a form signed by someone on the financial services 
register as carrying out a director function at Mrs Ws adviser firm and that firm wouldve 
got the email. It was reasonable for Transact to send its email there rather than to Mrs W 
direct.
Transact ought reasonably to have passed on the October notice for Z and Transact 
accepts it didnt do this. But Transacts failure on this likely didnt alter Mrs Ws position 
compared to if the notice had been passed on. The notice didnt provide options for or 
invite a response from shareholders like Mrs W. There was no suggestion Mrs W could have redeemed her shares at the time before the restructure took effect and no evidence 
redemption requests made at that time had taken place before the restructure happened. 
As for the suggestion Mrs W couldve used the governing law of the fund to recover the 
value of her shares, Transact wasnt responsible for looking into such options for Mrs W 
or for telling her about them. That wouldve been beyond the scope of its responsibilities. 
There was nothing to suggest Mrs W or her adviser had investigated this legal option on 
being told the restructure had gone through. Also the notice Transact ought to have sent 
her didnt contain information to indicate that the bonds wouldnt be redeemed or would 
lose value as they have. Theres no practical evidence to show Mrs W wouldve gained 
anything from this legal route if she had pursued in in 2012. On balance it was unlikely in 
2012 that she wouldve pursued this route even though she may think she wouldve now. 
Overall, it was likely Mrs W would still have become a bondholder had Transact passed 
on the notices about the restructure of Z. Even if she had attempted to redeem her 
investment in Z, the evidence didnt support the conclusion that she wouldve succeeded.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators assessment and made a number of further points. 
Ive considered all she has sent us but, in brief summary, her points included:
She was apprehensive about investing in X to start with and only did so because it was a 
regulated fund and within the limit of the property fund exposure shed agreed to. More 
investment into suspicious property related funds and bonds increased her concern. 
She moved SIPP funds into cash in 2012 to protect it from the market. These were then 
reinvested against her instructions and into funds she knew nothing about. Transact and 
her IFA had no authority to act without her instruction. She lost trust in Transact and her 
IFA. 
The restructure triggered her upmost concern and concerted actions, including 
complaining to her IFA, Transact and our service. If she had known of the conversion 
earlier, this would have triggered these actions earlier  with a chance shed have been 
able to redeem funds or prevent them being converted into long dated bonds completely 
unsuitable for her forthcoming pension needs. Unsurprisingly, there was no advice or 
information from the IFA, since, with hindsight, they had planned to manipulate her 
investments.
Transacts 2012 SIPP Annual Review gave her confidence her pension would be as 
expected on her planned retirement date in a few years. Had she known of the high-risk 
conversions that were planned, she wouldve challenged Transact to explain these 
investments were suitable for her conservative SIPP portfolio. The notice of conversation 
was sent after the review. Transact didnt send a SPP review the following year. Did it 
now consider the investments unsuitable given her impending retirement date?
If she couldve extracted herself from this disastrous situation she wouldve and to 
suggest otherwise is derisory. 
The nightmare was allowed to progress on Transacts watch. Changes made later to its 
procedures suggest it got things wrong at the time.
Insufficient consideration has been given by us to the wider picture of manipulation by 
self-interested parties and the direct linkages between the entities involved, including X 
and its operators, Z and certain individuals. There were clear conflicts of interest. 
Past decisions of this service and the outcome of legal actions support her case.As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusion is the same as our investigators. Ive summarised my 
reasons, briefly, below.
Im considering here whether Transacts responsibilities in relation to particular events in 
2012 make it fair and reasonable for Transact to bear responsibility for damage Mrs W has 
suffered from investments in X, Y and Z. The matters that fall within the scope of this 
complaint are solely related to the 2012 restructures. My conclusions do not speak to the 
issue of whether Mrs W has been wronged more generally or to whether her characterisation 
of the wider picture or of the entities involved is accurate. 
Also Im not considering what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, at those 
earlier times when investments were made into X, Y and Z or the adequacy of Transacts 
due diligence in accepting these onto its platform in the first place.
With all that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned 
by Mrs W relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. The 
complaint Im considered here is not about Transact accepting new investments into a SIPP 
on its platform but about the restructuring of investments already held there.
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mrs Ws interests, treat her fairly, pay due 
regard to her information needs and give information to her in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The May 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure of X was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next four to six weeks and that a new company should be listed a few months after that.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Transact to wait for more details rather than 
forwarding on to Mrs W this notice or all or part of the information it contained. There was no 
detail about precisely what was going to take place, nor specific timings. 
I note that investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of the action 
anyway, given the extended redemption period and what the notice said about general 
timescales. I accept the points Mrs W makes about the efforts she made to extract herself 
from the investments, and how earlier notice might have prompted her to try this earlier. But 
in my view by the time of the May 2012 notice and its extension of the waiting period for 
redeeming shares, the chance for redeeming the shares and so avoiding the conversion  
insofar as that chance had actually existed prior to the May 2012 notice  existed no longer.
When in August 2012 Transact received details of exactly what would happen, it did decide 
to pass these on. Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though Mrs W didnt have a right to vote on the restructure, I think Transact was right to decide to pass this 
on, bearing in mind its obligations.
Mrs W doesnt agree Transact informed her, through her adviser, of the notice. But from 
what Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using an email address for 
Mrs Ws adviser. 
I say this having considered carefully all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to do 
what it did in September 2012 and forward details of the corporate action notice to the email 
address it used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mrs Ws adviser at the time wasnt 
aware of the plans and points of action outlined in the August 2012 notice.
So I think by doing what it did, Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mrs Ws adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to communicate with 
Mrs W about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the adviser she had registered 
on its system.
The August notice was information about what would be a substantial change to Mrs Ws 
investments. But I dont think Transact needed to do more than it did. It had no obligation to 
provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. It was for Mrs W, and her 
adviser, to consider the implications, decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investments or for Mrs W as investor. Nor do I think that 
Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the bonds Mrs W received or was 
to receive, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment but an alteration to an existing one.
In saying this, I note the notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for Mrs W 
to avoid having her investments exchanged for the new bonds through the restructure, and 
she didnt have a vote on whether it went through. Other rights or legal options Mrs W might 
have had in relation to the restructure, that arose from her status as a shareholder rather 
than from the restructure proposals themselves - for example as a result of the company law 
of the territory in which X was legally based - were rights or options that it was for her or her 
adviser to explore and consider. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
Transact to have investigated, considered or advised Mrs W about wider rights of that kind.
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mrs Ws investments and, as their registered legal 
owner, it was safeguarding Mrs Ws investments by acting as custodian. So Transact had to 
keep Mrs Ws investments safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise her 
on how to get out of the investments if she wasnt happy with how they might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the notices it received for X 
 and I dont think it needed to do more than it did. It follows that I dont think any losses 
Mrs W suffered on her investments in X or Y were losses caused by failings by Transact in 
how it dealt with things at the time of the notices and the restructure of X.
Id add that if Mrs W had been told of the restructure proposals by Transact earlier or in a 
different way, Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been her either successfully 
redeeming her investments or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall Islands law, securing 
in the UK courts an award by virtue of which she was likely to have successfully recovered a 
payment to reduce her losses. I say this bearing in mind what Ive said above about how 
Transact didnt need to investigate for Mrs W or outline for her any such wider legal rights.Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs W or her adviser, upon becoming aware 
of the merger, raised any points about Mrs W having lost rights by virtue of not having been 
able to dissent in the way Mrs W has since described. What I have doesnt suggest Mrs W 
was aware of any such legal rights, insofar as they might have existed, until later. Im not 
persuaded that the most likely result of earlier receipt of the May 2012 notification wouldve 
been Mrs W successfully exercising such rights to recover funds from this investment. I say 
this without doubting the strength of Mrs Ws efforts to recover the situation and what she 
has said about this.
The August 2012 notice for Z  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure of 
Z was sought, that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next 1-4 weeks and that the restructure should be complete within four weeks after that. 
The October 2012 notice  a Notice of special meeting of shareholders taking place later in 
October - contained details of the plan of the merger and the bond for share swap. I think 
Transact should reasonably have sent this important information on to Mrs Ws adviser firm. 
Transact accepts it didnt send this on. So Ive gone on to consider the impact of Transacts 
failure to pass on information about the proposals for Z as it shouldve done.
Neither the August nor the October notice offered Mrs W a vote on whether the restructure 
went through or outlined a way for her to exclude herself from it and so avoid having her 
shares exchanged for the bonds. I note investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their 
holdings ahead of the action by requesting redemptions, as the restructure completed well 
within the extended redemption period announced in the August notice for Z. The timescales 
mentioned in that notice anticipated that this would be so. 
As Ive said above, I accept what Mrs W says about the efforts she made to extract herself 
from the investments, and how earlier notice might have prompted her to try this earlier. But 
insofar as there existed before the August notice the chance of redeeming shares before the 
conversion and so avoiding it and all that followed it, by the time of the August 2012 notice, 
with the extension of the waiting period for redeeming shares, that chance existed no longer 
in my view.
I note again that Mrs W has referred to other courses of action that might have been open to 
her, including legal action to enforce rights arising in Marshall Islands law. Transact had no 
obligation to provide advice or recommend a particular course of action. With this in mind, 
and in light of its obligations, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Transact 
to have investigated, considered or advised Mrs W about wider rights of that kind - either 
when the August notice came or when the October proposals followed. 
In saying this, I again take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mrs Ws investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of her shares in Z, it was safeguarding her investment by acting as custodian. So Transact 
had to keep Mrs Ws investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
her on how to get out of the investment if she wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action. I say this accepting that the 
proposals concerned would be a substantial change to Mrs Ws investment in Z.
Rights or legal options in relation to the restructure that Mrs W might have had by virtue of 
her status as a shareholder and not arising from the restructure proposals themselves - for 
example as a result of the company law governing the fund in the territory in which it was 
legally based - were rights or options that it was for her or her adviser to keep abreast of. 
Likewise it was for Mrs W, and her adviser, to consider the implications, decide what to do 
and look into it further if needed.
I have considered what Mrs W and her adviser might have done differently with knowledge of the information in the notices that Transact didnt pass on. Having done so, I dont think 
Transacts failings at that time in relation to this were the cause of losses Mrs W suffered on 
her investment  because if she had received that information Im not persuaded that more 
likely than not she wouldve been able to do things differently and obtain a better outcome. 
In particular, Im not persuaded the likely result of Mrs W receiving that information wouldve 
been her successfully redeeming her investment or, by enforcing rights arising in local 
company law or elsewhere, securing in the courts an award by virtue of which she was likely 
to successfully recover a payment to reduce her losses. I say this having considered 
carefully what she has sent us about certain other legal actions and complaints.
I say this also bearing in mind what Ive said above about how Transact didnt need to 
investigate for Mrs W or outline for her any such wider legal rights. Also I bear in mind Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mrs W or her adviser at the time, upon becoming aware of the 
merger, raised any points about Mrs W having lost rights by virtue of not having been able to 
dissent in the way Mrs W has since described. What I have doesnt suggest Mrs W was 
aware of such rights, insofar as they might have existed, until later. 
So on balance Im not persuaded Mrs W exercising such rights successfully to recover funds 
from her investment in Z was the most likely result had Transact passed on the information 
that it shouldve. I say this without doubting the strength of Mrs Ws efforts to recover the 
situation and what she has said about this.
Id add that I dont think Transact was at fault for not assessing the appropriateness of the 
bonds Mrs W received or was to receive in the way Mrs W has argued. The bonds were not 
a new investment Transact was accepting into the SIPP but the result of an alteration to an 
existing investment already held there.
Overall  in light of all Ive said above - I dont consider there was anything Transact was 
obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of which Mrs W wouldve been able to avoid the forced 
conversion of her investments in X, Y or Z and the losses she says arose as a result of that.
So although, given what happened here and the losses she suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mrs Ws situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts actions in connection 
with the 2012 restructures caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman