DRN-3961979
The complaint
A company which Ill call F complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc caused them 
inconvenience and negatively impacted their credit file through not amending the direct debit 
for their Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by their director, Mr A.
What happened
F had a business account with Barclays and successfully applied for a BBL in May 2020.
  
Mr A told us:
F made the contractual BBL repayments which started in June 2021 from their 
Barclays business account. He asked the bank to close Fs account in September 
2021 as he intended to dissolve the company. He completed a new direct debit 
mandate so the BBL repayments could be made from his personal account, but the 
bank didnt tell him at any point that if he closed F, a formal demand would be issued 
for the BBL.
Due to a bank error the direct debit wasnt set up until February 2022 and 
repayments then started in March 2022, but this meant F had missed six 
repayments.  
F had ceased trading in September 2021, but Barclays had prevented Fs closure, so 
it was now incurring charges from Companies House which was unfair. 
Barclays had unfairly defaulted Fs BBL and recorded this against the companys 
credit file even though he hadnt received any correspondence from Barclays saying 
Fs account was in arrears or that it had sent a formal demand.
The only letter he had received from Barclays was in May 2022 to say that the formal 
demand on Fs account hadnt been satisfied.
It wasnt fair that Barclays had moved Fs loan to its recoveries team and recorded 
adverse credit information about the company due to its own error. He wanted this 
removed from Fs credit history. 
Barclays told us:
It upheld Fs complaint as it gave F the benefit of the doubt that the BBL direct debit 
wasnt changed in September 2021 as requested, which was poor customer service. 
However, it said there was no record of the request in September 2021, only in 
February 2022 when the direct debit was then set up from Mr As personal account.
It was sorry that when Mr A called in January 2022 to set up the direct debit from his 
personal account, he wasnt told what would happen to the BBL if F closed. So, it 
apologised and paid him £25 for the inconvenience caused. 
It received a Notice Of Intended Dissolution (NOID) from Companies House in 
February 2022 so it had repeatedly written to Mr A about Fs BBL but hadnt received 
a response.
The letters to Mr A were clear that because of Fs outstanding BBL, it would object to 
the proposed strike-off action and may issue a formal demand if he didnt contact the 
bank. They also said the account couldnt be maintained if F was struck off 
Companies House.   
It couldnt reopen Fs loan as it had been closed and correctly passed to the 
recoveries team in line with its NOID process  not because F had missed 
repayments due to the direct debit error. It had told Mr A on the 18 May, that he could 
continue to make payments towards Fs loan from his personal account, he would 
just need liaise with the recoveries team to do this.
Our investigator thought Barclays could have been clearer when speaking to Mr A about the 
impact on Fs BBL if he dissolved the company. So she recommended the bank pay a 
further £75 compensation for the poor customer service F had received. However, she 
thought it was reasonable for Barclays to issue a formal demand in line with the BBL terms 
and conditions, as F was the borrower of the loan and the company was in the process of 
being wound up, which constituted an event of default. The investigator also said she was 
satisfied the bank had sent the required notifications by post and that it wasnt required to 
send them by a different method. 
Barclays agreed with the investigators decision, but Mr A didnt. He said if the bank had 
made him aware of what would happen to the BBL if F was dissolved, he wouldnt have 
taken this action. He also said it wasnt fair to say F had received the letters sent by the bank 
or that he should have read the BBL terms to understand when a BBL could default. So he 
asked for an ombudsman to review Fs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint in part. Im not asking Barclays to remove the 
adverse credit information from Fs account and reinstate the loan as though it hadnt been 
moved to the banks recoveries team. Furthermore, I think the £100 total compensation for 
the banks error is fair. Ill explain why.  
Firstly, its not disputed by either party that Barclays could have been clearer when speaking 
to Mr A about the impact on the BBL if he dissolved the company. Although the bank wasnt 
clear on that call, it did attempt to contact Mr A prior to issuing the formal demand for Fs 
loan. Ive seen that Barclays wrote to Mr A on 10, 16 and 23 February to say it had received 
the NOID and would freeze any balances and object to the dissolution if any monies owed. 
The letters also said if Mr A didnt respond, a formal demand may be issued to recover the 
outstanding balance. 
So I think Barclays took reasonable steps to make it clear to Mr A what the impact would be 
on the BBL if he continued to dissolve F before it issued the formal demand on 15 March. I 
also think Mr A has responsibility here to understand his actions from dissolving F and the 
consequences of this actions. If he was unsure what the impact on F, and himself as the 
director would be, I think it would be reasonable to believe that he ought to have sought 
independent legal advice. I dont think its fair for Mr A to expect Barclays to advise him on 
what would happen next when he chose to dissolve F. 
Mr A told us that he didnt receive the letters and he shouldnt be held responsible for this. 
He also says Barclays should have contacted him in a different way. The BBL terms and conditions say that in certain circumstances (such as the dissolution of the borrower or 
issuing the formal demand), the bank will write to the borrower using first class post, at the 
address advised to the bank and the letter will be considered as received after 48 hours. It is 
a commercial decision taken by Barclays to communicate in this way, and I think this was 
reasonable. 
Ive seen that the bank wrote to F at its registered address. Ive not seen that Mr A notified 
Barclays that F was no longer using that address or that the bank received any returned 
mail. So I think it was reasonable for Barclays to believe F had received its letters and was 
aware of the impact if the company were dissolved. I also cant reasonably hold Barclays 
responsible if, as Mr A says, that none of these letters were delivered as this would be due 
to circumstances outside its control. 
Mr A says that it is unfair that Barclays issued a formal demand for the BBL as the arrears 
on the BBL were because the bank didnt change the direct debit details in September 2021. 
He also says hes been making payments from his personal account so the BBL should be 
moved back from the recovery team. However, Barclays has told us that the action it took to 
recover the BBL wasnt because of the arrears, but due to F  the borrower under the terms 
of the agreement - no longer being active, and I think this was reasonable. 
I say this because the BBL terms and conditions say that an event of default will occur if any 
steps are taken in relation to the winding-up or dissolution of the borrower. And that should 
an event of default take place, the loan will be withdrawn or cancelled, and the outstanding 
balance will become immediately due and payable. I acknowledge Mr A says that he 
shouldnt be expected to have been aware of this as he shouldnt need to read through the 
terms and conditions. But I think its reasonable to expect that Mr A understood the terms of 
this agreement. So I think it was reasonable for Barclays to issue a formal demand when it 
received the NOID in line with these terms, and record this on Fs credit file accordingly. 
Mr A is unhappy as he says he contacted the bank in September 2021 about changing the 
direct debit account for Fs BBL, but Barclays didnt process his request. He says this has 
also impacted Fs credit rating. However, Ive reviewed the banks contact notes and I 
havent seen any evidence that the new direct debit mandate was received or that Mr A 
contacted the bank again about this until 24 January - just after hed posted the intention to 
dissolve F. 
Barclays has also told us that it upheld Fs complaint for poor customer service as it had 
given the benefit of doubt that the request had been received, rather than because it didnt 
action the request. However, even if the direct debit wasnt amended due to a bank error, 
Barclays wrote to F to say that repayments had been missed, so F ought reasonably to have 
been aware of the arrears. Furthermore, given that no payments had debited Mr As 
personal account for five months, I think he ought reasonably to have been aware that there 
was an issue with the direct debit and contacted Barclays to see if there was an issue. The 
obligation was on F as the borrower to ensure its BBL repayments were met  regardless of 
where the payments came from  and as the repayments werent received as expected, I 
think its reasonable that Barclays doesnt restructure Fs loan to remove the arrears and 
continues to record the missed repayments on Fs credit file. 
I acknowledge that Mr A says he wants to repay Fs BBL from his personal account and that 
Fs account has been removed from his online banking. Barclays has said that Mr A can 
continue to make repayments in this way, however he would need to liaise with its 
recoveries team to do so as this department deals with accounts in this position. So Mr A 
should liaise with the bank directly to discuss repayments and if its possible for him to view 
the BBL through his personal online banking. I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to withdraw Fs 
BBL, issue the formal demand and report the repayment history to the credit reference 
agencies, so I wont be asking it to take further action on these parts of the complaint. 
However, I think Barclays could have provided clearer information when discussing the BBL 
repayments if F was dissolved. So I think it should pay F a further £75 compensation on top 
of the £25 already paid for the inconvenience caused - bringing the total award to £100.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay P a 
further £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused in addition to the £25 already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman