DRN-3626003
The complaint
Ms M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster) didnt 
do enough to protect her when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Ms M has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Ms M authorised the payments from two of her Ulster accounts, through a 
combination of debit card and online payments, albeit not realising she was being 
scammed. So, the starting position  in line with the Payments Services Regulations 
2017  is that shes liable for the transactions.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account 
relevant law, regulations and good industry practice  ought to have identified a fraud 
risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction 
before processing a payment. If Ulster failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss it ought reasonably to have prevented, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Ive considered whether Ulster ought to have made additional checks on the disputed 
payments. And I dont think it ought to have. I say this because I dont consider the 
payments to have been particularly unusual or out of character.
The first payment, which was for £1,000, was made on 17 February 2022 to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. But this amount isnt high enough in value to 
have triggered Ulsters fraud alert systems. 
Two further payments, totalling £1,500, were made the following day. These were 
made to the same cryptocurrency exchange. But, while this amount was slightly 
higher, I still dont consider the total to be high enough in value that they should have 
flagged with Ulster. And I note that the two payments were also made from two 
separate accounts held with Ulster so would have been even less likely to trigger its 
fraud alert systems. This is because the payments from each account wouldnt have 
appeared unusual, with £1,000 being made from one account and £500 from the 
other.
So, Im not persuaded Ulster ought to have been alert to a possible risk of fraud or a 
scam. The payments wouldnt have appeared particularly unusual or out of character 
and both the accounts had substantial sums remaining following the disputed 
payments. I also note the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. Given this, I wouldnt have expected Ulster to intervene. 
I note that Ulster later intervened, at the point at which Ms M attempted to make a 
further payment. Ms M, via her representative said this shows a proper intervention 
would have made a difference. But, as Ive concluded that Ulster wouldnt have been 
expected to intervene, I dont need to consider what would have happened if it did. 
Ive thought about whether Ulster could reasonably have done more to help Ms M 
recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam. But a chargeback would 
have been unlikely to succeed as the service  the purchase of cryptocurrency  was 
provided by the merchant. Similarly with the online payments, the service of providing 
cryptocurrency had been provided. So, I dont think Ulster could have recovered any 
of the disputed payments.
While Im sorry Ms M has been the victim of a scam, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Ulster liable in this case. And I dont think attempts to recover the loss would ultimately have 
been successful.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc, trading as Ulster Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman