DRN-4016544
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd caused unnecessary delays in the 
transfer of her pension to a new provider, causing her a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs F, with the assistance of her Independent Financial Adviser, (IFA), approached Aviva in 
February 2020 to discuss her retirement options. Her total pension fund value at the time 
was just over £460,000.
Part of Mrs Fs pension was invested in a commercial property fund, and due to COVID 
restrictions at the time, Aviva werent able to value the property in question. The fund was 
suspended, for trading purposes, on 20 March 2020. 
Mrs F asked if she could partially transfer her pension  essentially leaving the property 
investment with Aviva and transferring the rest. Aviva initially said this was OK, but soon 
corrected this  the terms and conditions of her pension prevented partial transfers. Aviva 
also sent incorrect fund value statements to Mrs F at around this time. Mrs F raised a 
complaint about this. Aviva accepted theyd sent incorrect information and apologised for 
this. They offered Mrs F £150 compensation for this mistake. But they repeated they couldnt 
undertake a partial transfer at this time. Mrs Fs IFA continued to make enquiries with Aviva 
about when the property fund suspension would be lifted, and whilst transfer paperwork was 
provided to Mrs F, Aviva explained that no payment could be made until after the fund 
suspension had been lifted.
In October 2020, the suspension was lifted. Aviva advised Mrs Fs IFA that, upon receipt of 
her signed transfer forms, the transfer process would take ten working days, plus a further 
three to five days for final clearance. Mrs F returned the signed forms, which Aviva confirms 
were received on 16 October 2020. 
However, delays occurred, and the payment to Mrs Fs new pension provider was only made 
on 13 November 2020. Aviva acknowledged this delay, saying we should have been in a 
position to make the transfer payment within our turnaround time of 10 working days. Aviva 
confirmed they would carry out a loss assessment. £150 compensation was offered. But 
further delays occurred. Aviva advised before they could do the calculation theyd require 
more information from the receiving scheme. A further £100 compensation was offered. 
Mrs F was unhappy with the delays, both in the transfer and also the loss calculation which 
by April 2021 still hadnt been undertaken, so she brought her complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator issued her view in January 2022  when Aviva still hadnt calculated the 
loss assessment. Our investigator noted Aviva had quoted a 14-day turnaround for this 
assessment to be made. She said Aviva should complete the assessment as a matter of 
priority, providing a fixed timescale for this to happen. She also felt that Avivas offer of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience (D&I), of £400 in total, was insufficient, and 
said Aviva should pay an additional amount of £400 because of the distress caused by the 
extended delays in Aviva carrying out Mrs Fs loss calculation, their lack of communication, 
and the payment of any loss into her pension that she remained entitled to. 
Aviva responded, initially disagreeing (but subsequently accepting) that an extra £400 D&I 
should be paid, partly because they felt it was Mrs Fs advisor that was experiencing the 
inconvenience of chasing this matter up. Instead, Aviva suggested adding 8% interest on the 
calculated loss. Our investigator responded, in summary disagreeing with this approach. She 
still felt an extra £400 D&I was appropriate and adding 8% interest to the loss wasnt the 
correct calculation method to use when assessing distress compensation. 
In February 2022, Aviva completed the loss assessment, and sent Mrs F a cheque for 
£2,046 as settlement. Mrs F rejected this, believing Aviva had used incorrect dates in their 
calculations. Mrs Fs IFA instead calculated the loss to be £12,967.81 and submitted this to 
Aviva for their consideration. Aviva rejected this, maintaining their calculation method was 
correct. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to issue a Decision. And 
because I disagreed with what Aviva had proposed, I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) 
setting out my thoughts, and proposed resolution  which said as follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Aviva accept they made mistakes and caused delays in the transfer of Mrs Fs funds to her 
new provider. There is no dispute between the parties regarding this, and so I dont need to 
make a finding on this point. The issues that remain in dispute are essentially twofold  how 
much delay did Aviva cause, and what calculation method is appropriate to work out the loss 
Aviva caused. 
The delay period:
Mrs F was initially prevented from transferring her Aviva funds to a new provider, because 
some of her funds were invested in a property fund. The COVID pandemic prevented Aviva 
being able to accurately value the properties in question. They followed FCA guidance to 
suspend any dealings with those types of funds until such time that certain COVID-related 
restrictions were lifted  which they were able to do in October 2020. I dont think these 
delays were caused by Aviva, and so I cant hold them responsible for any loss of transfer 
value during this restriction/suspension period. 
Instead, I need to look at what happened after the suspension was lifted. Aviva have 
explained they have a ten working day turnaround to process transfer applications of this 
type, plus an extra three to five working days for final checks and clearance. These are the 
timeframes Id expect to see in a case such as this, and so I think they are fair here. 
However, the transfer took longer than this. 
Aviva have confirmed they received Mrs Fs signed transfer forms on 16 October 2020, and 
that her transfer should have taken place by 30 October 2020 (so, within ten working days). 
But it wasnt transferred until 13 November 2020  ten working days later than it should. 
Where a business has made a mistake, and a consumer has suffered a loss as result, wed 
tell a business to take steps (as much as possible) to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been in had the mistake not occurred. Here, that mistake involved a delay 
in Mrs Fs funds being transferred, so I need to begin by looking at what would have 
happened had Mrs Fs transfer taken place on 30 October 2020. But I also need to take account of what happened after the transfer was made - here, the 
funds werent invested by the receiving scheme until 24/25 November 2020  so between 
seven and eight working days after the transfer took place. I dont know why they werent 
invested immediately, but thats not something I need to know here. But I do need to take 
account of that seven/eight-day delay in working out fair redress. That further investment 
delay occurred whilst the funds were with Mrs Fs new pension company (and so not 
caused by Aviva), so its fair I factor that in when telling Aviva what I think it needs to do 
So, on the basis Aviva confirmed Mrs Fs funds should have been sent to her new pension 
provider on 30 October 2020, theyd have been invested on either 10 or 11 November (the 
seventh and eighth working days after 30 October)  and that is the timeframe that I think is 
fair and reasonable to use here when deciding what the appropriate redress must be.
Loss calculation method
Whilst the calculation method used by Aviva in February 2022 is a fair one, I think Aviva has 
used an incorrect date as part of their calculations. Theyve calculated based on Mrs Fs new 
provider investing her pension funds on 13 and 16 November, which are the tenth and 
eleventh working days after the funds were transferred. But as Ive said above, Aviva have 
told us the new provider invested the funds on the seventh and eighth day after transfer, 
which would have been 10 and 11 November 2020 respectively, so this is the timeframe Ill 
be using here as part of my redress calculations.   
I acknowledge Mrs Fs IFA has proposed a different calculation method (resulting in a 
potential loss of £12,967), based on the performance between 17 October and 17 November 
of a particular fund. However, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think this approach 
is appropriate. It doesnt take account of the specific investments made by Mrs Fs new 
pension provider, and so isnt particularly useful for like-for-like comparison purposes. Also, 
the delay period thats been used assumes Aviva became liable for transfer delay losses on 
the day after it received Mrs Fs transfer forms  which takes no account of the time Aviva 
would need to process and complete the transfer request in a timely manner. 
Distress and inconvenience
Aviva have recently advised they agree to pay Mrs F the increased £400 D&I compensation 
our investigator recommended, in addition to the £400 in total previously offered. Its not 
clear whether all the initial £400 was paid, or if the recent extra £400 has been paid. In any 
event, I agree with the extra compensation amount suggested by our investigator, and for 
the reasons stated. Whilst calculating compensation for distress isnt an exact science, I 
think £400 is a fair award in this case, and I wont be asking Aviva to increase it any further. 
I also set out my recommended redress calculations, using the timeframes above. Both 
parties have responded to my PD, making various points which Ill now address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas response
Aviva questioned some of the dates Id concluded should be used for redress calculation 
purposes. They said it wasnt appropriate to use reinvestment dates based on the seventh 
and eighth-day timetable Id suggested. They explained that, because of the delays theyd 
caused in processing Mrs Fs transfer, theyd sent her funds to the receiving scheme using Telegraphic Transfer (TT), which meant the funds were received by the receiving scheme 
within two hours. Had the transfer been made in the usual course of business, BACS would 
have been used, which takes three working days. As such, because the aim of redress 
should be to put a consumer back in the position they would have been in had the mistake 
not occurred (Aviva sent the funds on time, using the funds transfer method that would have 
been used), any calculation must include an allowance for the time an ordinary BACS 
transfer would have taken. 
I think this is a fair comment, and one I accept in principle. The key point is that redress here 
(and in any complaint) must be based on what would have happened had the transfer 
proceeded smoothly. So, if Aviva say their usual funds transfer method is BACS (which I 
accept), that is the process that must be used in any calculation, because that is what would 
have happened. The use of TT was a one-off, to help speed up the delayed transfer 
process, which wouldnt have been used had the transfer happened on 30 October 2020. 
So, Aviva believe that its fair to increase the redress calculation date by three days to take 
account of this  to Friday 13 and Monday 16 November 2020. 
Mrs Fs response
Mrs F begins by saying she believes her IFA sent the completed forms back on 11 October 
2020. That may well be so, but I must assess the complaint based on when Aviva received 
the signed documents, because its only then they would have been able to start processing 
her request. So, Ill continue to use 16 October 2020 as the start date here. And on the 
basis Aviva agree they should have taken ten working days to process the request and 
make payment, Ill continue to use 30 October 2020 as the date when Mrs Fs funds should 
have been transferred to the receiving scheme. 
Mrs F also thinks Aviva transferred the funds on 17 November 2020, rather than 13 
November 2020 as stated  having looked at the documents available I dont agree with this. 
Im satisfied that Aviva sent the money on 13 November 2020. 
It appears not in dispute that the receiving scheme invested the funds on the seventh and 
eighth working day after theyd received the funds. But given what Ive said above about the 
method the funds were sent by Aviva, it means I need to include those three extra BACS 
transfer days when calculating the redress timeframe. What this means, in practical terms, is 
that Aviva should have transferred the funds on 30 October, and redress needs to be 
calculated based on the receiving scheme having invested these funds on the tenth and 
eleventh working days after receipt. Here that means the funds would have been invested on 
13 and 16 November 2020 respectively. I note these were the dates used by Aviva in their 
original calculations (as their letter of 24 February 2022 to Mrs Fs IFA confirms). 
I appreciate Mrs F has spent a lot of time reviewing the sequence of events, after shed 
received my PD. She has made various of comments about what she feels are the correct 
dates to use. I can assure her Ive read and considered all of these. However, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I now think Aviva were right to use the transfer delay and re-
investment dates that they did use. These reflect, as accurately as possible, what would 
have happened if Aviva hadnt caused any delays. 
I think its important to reiterate that, when someone brings a complaint to this Service and 
we think a business hasnt acted fairly or has made a mistake, we try to place that consumer 
back into the position theyd have been in had the mistake not occurred. Here, Aviva should 
have transferred Mrs Fs funds to the receiving scheme on 30 October 2020. Had that 
actually happened, Aviva would have used their standard funds transfer process (BACS) 
which would have taken three working days. And we know that the receiving scheme did take between seven and eight days to invest these sums. So, this timescale must be used 
here, meaning the receiving scheme would have reinvested Mrs Fs funds on 13 and 16 
November 2020. 
So I think Aviva will now need to carry out a fresh calculation, using these dates, to arrive at 
a figure  as at the date of this final decision  so that an accurate and up-to-date loss 
amount can be ascertained. 
Mrs F has asked, admittedly based on her own timeline calculation (which differs to the 
above) whether I think her IFA may have had some responsibility for any delays (and 
accordingly, fund loss). I can make no comment on that question. I am considering a 
complaint about Avivas actions only. 
Mrs F also suggested her compensation for distress be calculated as a percentage (8%) of 
what she felt her funds had lost. I disagree. We do sometimes award 8% interest in our 
decisions, but usually in circumstances where we feel a consumer has lost out of the use of 
certain funds. Its a standard award that seeks to compensate for that loss of use. But it isnt 
a method we use to calculate compensation for D&I. Whilst calculating or assessing these 
awards isnt an exact science, we generally award fixed sums. Guidance on how we 
approach this can be found on our website. 
Finally, Mrs F has advised that she wasnt a basic rate taxpayer at retirement, nor has she 
taken a tax-free lump sum. She also has no plans to take money out of her pension that 
would likely generate the need to pay tax. I acknowledge her comments. 
When we award redress in these types of cases, we need to be mindful of potential tax 
implications. If an award can be paid into a consumers new pension fund, this is always the 
preferred option, and wed always say a business should explore that option in the first 
instance. And if a payment can be made into a pension fund, then there are no tax issues to 
consider. It can be paid in as a total amount. 
The problem arises where its not possible for a business to pay the award to a new 
pension company, and the award must be paid directly to a consumer. Generally, when 
someone starts drawing on their pension, they often take a tax-free sum, and are paid an 
income from the rest. And usually a person would pay tax on that income. It cant be 
predicted when that will happen, but the likelihood is this is what will happen at some point in 
the future. So, when a business has to make a payment direct to a consumer in these 
circumstances, we need to take that into account and apply a notional tax reduction. And the 
calculation I suggested in my PD, and which I repeat below, represents our standard 
approach in cases such as these. So, whilst I appreciate what Mrs F has advised relating to 
her circumstances now, I think the tax calculation element of the below redress is fair.
Conclusion
Having considered the information Aviva provided about the method of payment they did 
use, and also would have used had there been no delay, Im now satisfied that Mrs Fs 
receiving scheme would have reinvested her funds on the tenth and eleventh working day 
after Aviva transferred the funds. And its fair that Aviva use those dates when calculating 
appropriate redress. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mrs F should be put, as closely as possible, into the position she would now 
probably be in if Aviva had transferred her pension to her new provider on 30 October 2020.  
So, to compensate Mrs F fairly, Aviva must do the following:
- Calculate, if and as at the date Mrs F accepts this final decision, the notional current 
value of her current pension plan had her pension funds  using the values calculated on 
16 and 17 October 2020 respectively, and which should have been transferred on 30 
October 2020  been reinvested in line with the approach taken by her new provider on 
13 and 16 November 2020 respectively.
- Compare this value to the actual value of Mrs Fs pension at the date of any final 
decision along these lines.
- If the notional value is greater than the actual value of Mrs Fs pension, then Mrs F has 
suffered a financial loss and should be compensated accordingly. If the notional value is 
less than the actual value of Mrs Fs funds, then theres no loss and no investment 
compensation is due.
The compensation should be paid into Mrs Fs current pension plan. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs Fs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have eventually 
provided a taxable income. So, the total amount paid in this way should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Fs expected marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. I think its reasonable to assume that Mrs F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
retirement, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mrs F would have been able to 
take a 25% tax free lump sum, the tax reduction should only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in a fair overall tax reduction of 15%.
And, Aviva must pay Mrs F a further £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience - 
£150 having already been paid  because of the delays it caused to her pension transfer.
Aviva should pay any redress due, whether into Mrs Fs current pension or directly to her, 
within 28 days of being advised Mrs F has accepted this decision. If payment is not made 
within 28 days, interest must be added to the redress award(s) at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from this 
interest, it should tell Mrs F how much it has taken off. Aviva should give Mrs F a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs F asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd, and require it to 
compensate Mrs F in the way outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Mark EvansOmbudsman