DRN-2834951
The complaint
Ms P complains about the advice that Portal Financial Services LLP (previously known as 
Portafina LLP) gave her to transfer three personal pensions into a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Shes also unhappy with the advice she received about the underlying 
investments. 
In making this complaint Ms P is represented by a third party. For ease of reading the 
decision, Ill refer to all representations as being made directly by Ms P.   
What happened
An unregulated introducer contacted Ms P and told her about the possibility of investing her 
pension in alternative ways as a means of increasing pension growth. It then referred Ms P 
to Portal, which gave her regulated advice about her pension.  
Having discussed things with Ms P, Portal noted in a suitability report dated 30 October 2013 
that: 
Ms P was 37 years old;
was employed and earned around £28,000 a year;
owned a property worth about £120,000 and had an outstanding mortgage of 
£89,000 to pay;
had savings of about £800 in a cash ISA;
used any disposable income towards repaying outstanding debts; and
had a life assurance policy, which covered her mortgage upon death.
Portal noted that Ms P had no assets or liabilities other than those listed above.
It noted Ms Ps main objectives were to:
consolidate her existing pension plans;
have more flexibility; and
benefit from potentially higher investment performance  and that this was of greater 
importance to Ms P than having lower charges.
Portal noted that the combined total of Ms Ps existing pensions was around £27,000. It also 
noted she wanted to leave £1 in one of the plans to allow ongoing employer contributions to 
be made.
Portal deemed Ms P to be a moderately cautious investor, which was defined as somebody 
uncomfortable taking risk with their investments, but would be willing to do so to a limited 
extent. They realise that risky investments are likely to be better for longer-term returns.
Taking everything into account, Portal recommended that Ms P transfer her existing 
pensions into a SIPP with N, which it said combined the traditional elements of a personal 
pension with a self-investment option and gave her the opportunity to invest outside 
conventional insured funds. Portal also thought the benefits from this option would likely 
exceed those gained through Ms Ps existing provider. However, it also noted various risks 
within its suitability report including the following:
The value of investments in the funds we recommend to you depend on the value of the 
underlying assets and can fall as well as rise meaning you may not get back the original 
amount invested.
Portal noted the associated fees were:
an initial fee of 5% of the total transfer value (deducted from the residual fund) paid to 
Portal of which 2% would be given to the unregulated introducer;
a 1% yearly review fee;
an annual management charge of 0.5% to the pension provider (based on a fund 
value of less than £250,000); and
other charges relating to the individual funds invested in.
Ms P agreed to follow Portals advice and transfer her pensions into a SIPP. Portal then 
arranged the following investments:
£1,441 Lakeview 5.20%
£2,661 Marbella 9.60%
£2,882 Real Estate USA 10.40%
£1,330 Motion Picture 4.80%
£2,771 Strategic Residential 10.00%
£2,771 Jupiter Distribution Class I 10.00%
£2,771 Prudential Managed Defensive Acc A 10.00%
£2,771 Matterley Regular High Income 10.00%
£1,386 Invesco Perpetual European High Income z
Shares5.00%
£1,386 Premier Multi-Asset Distribution 5.00%
£1,386 Standard Life Dynamic Distribution 5.00%
£1,386 Karnes Ethical Cautious Managed D Acc 5.00%
£2,772 Cash 10.00%
Ms P later complained to Portal as she didnt think its advice to transfer her pensions into a 
SIPP had been suitable after all. Neither did she think its assessment of her risk appetite 
was accurate, or that Portal had carried out the necessary due diligence about the 
underlying investments. 
Portal didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint.  Amongst 
other things, it said that the recommendation to transfer Ms Ps pension into a SIPP was not 
to facilitate high risk illiquid investments, it said the underlying investments were secure, 
stable and structured funds, not high risk and were designed to offer a steady income into 
the SIPPs cash facility ready for retirement. It said the term times for maturity were between 
four and ten years, so would be expected to come of age around the same time that Ms P 
wanted to start taking an income or retire. And, as Ms P wasnt able to access any of her retirement benefits until age 55 anyway, it thought the illiquidity of some of the investments 
was irrelevant. It said the investments would mature by the time Ms P was able to access 
them (and the annual review letters already showed some signs of growth) and, in the 
meantime, it would address any excess cash to ensure Ms Ps pension was growing and 
maximising its potential. Portal said it completed due diligence on all funds and didnt agree 
that it had breached the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Ms P then referred her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
She upheld Ms Ps complaint and felt that Portal shouldnt have advised her to transfer her 
pension funds into a SIPP. Amongst her reasons for saying so, the investigator said:
Ms P was a moderately cautious investor, who had already invested in low risk funds 
within her existing pension plans. Therefore, she could easily have achieved what 
she wanted through her existing providers without any extra charge.
Whilst Ms P would have achieved her aim of consolidating her existing pensions, 
(which when held separately had combined annual management charges of 3.1%) by 
transferring into the SIPP, Ms P was faced with a number of different (and likely 
higher) charges, which made Portals recommendations very expensive for Ms P  
particularly when there were other (possibly more suitable) alternatives. 
Portal didnt seem to have fully explored with Ms P what she meant by having 
flexibility and why she didnt feel she could achieve that within her existing pension 
plans. 
The investigator was unsure why transferring into a SIPP would have helped with 
investment performance more than a standard pension would - particularly as Ms P 
wasnt making regular contributions into her pensions, so growth would have been 
limited anyway. 
Many of the investment funds were unconventional and high risk  and most were 
illiquid. So, the investigator didnt think they were suitable for Ms Ps circumstances. 
And had they not been recommended, the investigator thought Ms P would likely 
have left things as they were, so wouldnt have been exposed to the situation she 
found herself in.
The investigator initially recommended that Portal calculate redress using FTSE Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the fund and the average rate for fixed rate 
bonds for the other half. She thought that would likely put Ms P in as close a position as it 
could had she not transferred her pensions into the SIPP. Portal initially accepted the 
investigators assessment and agreed to calculate redress using the formula the investigator 
set out.
However, Ms P thought any redress should be based on the notional values of her previous 
pensions and that Portal should consider refunding future SIPP fees (if it wasnt able to buy 
any illiquid investments, which would otherwise cause ongoing fees for Ms P). 
Our investigator agreed to put these points to Portal.  
An agreement was subsequently reached, and the complaint closed. But, having considered  
further comments made by Ms P and Portal, in agreement with both parties and in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint, it was re-opened so that it could be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. Its been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Portal doesnt agree that its advice to Ms P to transfer her pensions into a SIPP was 
unsuitable. It initially said the underlying investments were secure, stable and structured 
funds and were not high risk. And its since argued that the SIPP option chosen was 
cheaper  particularly when factoring in that some of the additional features of the contract 
werent obligatory. And it said that a fund the size of Ms Ps could be invested in 
mainstream pooled funds for a base cost of 0.8% a year. 
In contrast, Ms P thinks that Portal was negligent to advise her to transfer her pension into a 
SIPP, particularly as she says some of the funds invested in were of no value. 
Ive thought carefully about the submissions both parties have made, and for many of the 
same reasons our investigator gave, Im not persuaded Portals recommendation for Ms P to 
transfer her pension funds into a SIPP was suitable. Ill explain why. 
Portal had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here. The Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules regulated businesses 
have to follow. 
At the time of the advice, COBS 9.2.1R required Portal to take reasonable steps to ensure 
any recommendations it made were suitable for Ms P. 
COBS 9.2.2R requires that when gathering information from the customer, the business 
must find out things such as how long theyd like to hold the investment for; their risk profile 
and why theyre looking to invest. And it must also be satisfied that the customer can bear 
the associated risks consistent with their investment objectives and had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portal had to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client.
I can see that in its suitability report, Portal noted that Ms P had a few different aims and 
objectives. These included:
consolidating her existing pension plans;
have more flexibility;
benefitting from potentially higher investment performance  and that this was of 
greater importance to Ms P than having lower charges; and
to leave £1 in one of her existing pension plans to continue to receive employer 
contributions.
Whilst not completely clear from the evidence Ive seen, its possible Ms P wanted more 
simplicity by having her pension funds in one place. And I can appreciate that. But it was 
also important that Portal weighed that up against the disadvantages of Ms Ps transferring 
her pension funds. However, keeping a nominal amount (£1) in one pension pot to allow 
continuing employer contributions to be made, means that full consolidation wasnt achieved 
in any event. And whilst it might have created a little more simplicity than having three 
separate pension arrangements, I do think Portal should have thought more about whether it 
was still appropriate for Ms P to transfer, given that she wouldnt fully realise her 
consolidation aim, or whether there was scope to consolidate within her existing 
arrangements. 
Ms P also said she wanted flexibility. Its not clear to me what she meant by that and to what 
extent (if at all) Portal explored it with her. As Ive indicated above, Portal was required to 
find out why Ms P was looking to invest. As she had existing pension arrangements, I think it 
was important for Portal to understand what Ms P meant by flexibility and, having done that, 
consider whether that could be achieved through her existing arrangements and provider. For instance, if it was about flexible access to benefits at the appropriate time, as Ms P was 
some way off retirement, it seems there was little value in her having flexibility at that point. 
And its something that could probably have been achieved by transferring to a suitable plan 
at a more appropriate time.
Ms Ps existing plans were held in various group pension schemes and largely within 
managed funds. From what Ive seen, the plans appear to have had much lower charges 
than the SIPP. And it seems theyd realised returns of about 6% on average over the 
preceding five years. I appreciate that Ms P was hoping to secure a greater return from her 
investment, which isnt an unusual objective. However, that needed to be considered in the 
context of her attitude to risk. And given that and her other personal circumstances, it seems 
to me that her existing arrangements were probably more suitable to her needs (and 
seemed to produce a reasonable return rate). So, Im not persuaded that she was really 
looking for the type of investment flexibility potentially offered by the investments in the 
SIPP. 
I say that in particular because Portal assessed Ms P as being a moderately cautious 
investor. That meant she wasnt comfortable in taking risks, but would do so to a limited 
extent. Portal recommended that Ms P transfer her pension funds across a range of different 
investments, a fair proportion of which were fairly high risk. Some were also illiquid. These 
are typically the type of investments suited to more experienced investors. And whilst Im 
satisfied that Portal made Ms P aware of the risk involved, that doesnt mean shed have 
fully understood the extent of that potential risk. 
And given the potentially greater risk (and the expectations set out in COBS) I think a key 
question when considering suitability is Ms Ps capacity for loss. Ms Ps pension pot was 
fairly modest - about £27,000 in total. As far as Im aware, she wasnt continuing to make 
contributions. And whilst she was employed, any disposable income she had was used 
towards her mortgage payments and outstanding debts. She also had a modest amount of 
savings and apparently no other assets or retirement provision. So, based on these factors 
and whilst accepting that Ms P was hoping for greater levels of return on her investments, I 
think she had little capacity for loss. And given that, Im not persuaded that the advice to 
transfer into the SIPP and the way in which Portal subsequently recommended her pension 
be invested was in her best interests. 
Another factor in coming to that conclusion was the fee structure involved in the transfer and 
ongoing SIPP arrangement. I accept that Ms Ps motivation wasnt to move her pensions to 
another arrangement simply for the sake of securing lower fees. But that doesnt mean that 
she was happy to accept higher fees either. I can see that the transfer led to an immediate 
cost of 5% of her residual fund value. And, as Ms Ps pension fund was already fairly modest 
and she wasnt making ongoing contributions, I think that was a sizeable reduction in its 
overall value. And thats before other charges were applied such as provider fees of 0.5% a 
year, ongoing management fees of 1% a year to Portal, as well as other charges related to 
the funds her pension was invested in. And given that Ms P appeared to be seeking some 
simplicity by transferring her pension, Im also not persuaded moving to an arrangement 
involving a more complex (and costly) fee structure was appropriate or necessary.  
Portals since argued that even if Ms P hadnt transferred all of her pensions and left some 
as they were (which was an alternative suggested by our investigator), it would still have 
charged the same initial fee. According to Portal, thats because it would have involved a 
similar amount of work. But I note that the fee charged was based on a percentage of the 
funds transferred, not the time and effort required. I also need to keep in mind that had Ms P 
not been given unsuitable advice to transfer her pensions, shes likely to have incurred an 
even smaller fee, or none at all, as Ive seen no evidence of a fee being payable if no 
transfer had occurred. 
Portal also said that the SIPP chosen was fairly low cost. Whilst its possible it was cheaper 
than other SIPPs, that doesnt automatically make the advice to transfer into this particular SIPP suitable. And its made further arguments such as Ms P wasnt obliged to accept some 
of the other features of the contract  for example ongoing advice fees, so it said the base 
costs would have been much lower. Apart from the fact that I dont think that would have 
been immediately clear to Ms P from the suitability report, I also need to keep in mind that 
she doesnt appear to have been an experienced investor. So, it seems more likely that 
having taken Portals advice to transfer, I think Ms Ps likely to have needed ongoing advice 
about whether her investments were working in the best way for her. And that would have 
come at an additional cost. For those reasons, Im not persuaded by Portals arguments 
here. And, overall, as Ive indicated, I dont think the advice to transfer into a SIPP was 
suitable for Ms P.
For completeness, I also thought about whether Ms P would likely have gone ahead with the 
transfer, even if Portal had advised her not to. And I dont think she would. Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest she was looking to transfer her pension until the unregulated introducer 
contacted her, which was what led to Portal giving her advice. Portal had an obligation to 
give her advice that appropriately matched her circumstances and attitude to risk. For the 
reasons Ive outlined, I dont think Portals advice did those things. So, Im satisfied that any 
losses Ms P incurred were as a direct result of the unsuitable advice Portal gave her. That 
leaves me to decide what Portal needs to do about this now.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if shed been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms P would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Ms P's circumstances and her objectives when she invested. 
What should Portal do?
Under normal circumstances Id use a benchmark to calculate fair compensation. However, 
as both parties previously agreed to compensation being calculated using the notional 
values of Ms Ps previous investments, I see no reason to depart from that method. 
Fair compensation
To compensate Ms P fairly, Portal must now:
Compare the performance of Ms Ps investments with the notional value of her previous 
pension plans for the time period as set out below. If the notional value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the notional value, no compensation is payable. 
Portal should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Ms Ps pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Ms P's pension plan, it should pay that amount directly to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms P's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Ms P is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of 
tax. However, if Ms P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms P how much has been taken off. Portal should give Ms P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
N SIPP Still existsCompare 
against the 
notional 
value of Ms 
Ps previous 
pension 
plansdate of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
My aim is to put Ms P in the position she wouldve been in but for the failings of Portal. This 
is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here. So, when 
determining the current value of the SIPP, the value of any illiquid investments should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of any illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above. 
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of the calculation. Portal may wish to require that Ms P provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
SIPP fees
As the SIPP only exists because of the advice Portal gave, in order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees prevented, the illiquid investments need to be removed. But if Portal 
cant buy them, Ms P is faced with future SIPP fees. Our investigator recommended that 
Portal pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable as Ms P hasnt got the opportunity to close the SIPP or switch to another 
pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So, if Portal cant buy the investment and it 
remains illiquid, it should pay Ms P an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the 
current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the 
investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms P wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital;
I think its likely Ms P could have met her objectives through her existing pension 
provision. And I dont think Ms P is likely to have transferred her pensions had she not 
received unsuitable advice from Portal. Given this, and that Portal and Ms P previously 
agreed to the use of notional values from her previous pension providers, I consider it 
reasonable in these circumstances to use the notional value of Ms Ps previous 
pension plans when calculating redress. 
Under normal circumstances Id have awarded Ms P compensation to recognise the trouble 
and upset that this matter has caused her. However, Im satisfied that the payment of £300 
Portal made to Ms P in February 2020 fairly recognises that.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay redress 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman