DRN-1212283
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about Experian Limited (Experian) reporting his personal information on his 
brothers credit report.  
What happened
Since 2017, Mr P has made two separate complaints to Experian about his data showing on 
his brothers Experian credit report and other related issues. Experian dealt with those and 
on two different occasions paid Mr P compensation.
In 2019, Mr Ps data once again started appearing on his brothers Experian credit report. 
Mr P says this happened for four months so he made a third complaint to Experian.
Experian replied saying that because Mr Ps data is very similar to that of his twin brother, 
their system is experiencing issues and because of this Mr Ps information gets wrongly 
reported on his brothers credit report. They apologised and said they recognise this error 
should not have occurred in the first place. They said as of 4 July 2019, the error was 
rectified and his data was not showing on his brothers report. They have paid Mr P £100 for 
the distress caused and said if he had any financial loss from this issue, to provide them with 
evidence and they would be happy to look into this further.
Unhappy with their response, Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He said the amount 
of compensation offered does not reflect the severity of the breaches.
While the complaint was with our service, Experian agreed to increase the compensation by 
a further £100. Our investigator thought the total compensation of £200 was fair and 
reasonable, considering the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint.  
Mr P wasnt happy with this as he thought the compensation offered should be higher.
So the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr P has raised three separate complaints to Experian about his data showing on his 
brothers Experian credit report, starting in 2017, but in this decision Im only dealing with the 
most recent incident that occurred this year. 
Experian have explained that the data showing on Mr Ps brothers Experian credit report, 
this year, was due to Mr P sharing nearly the same details as his twin brother, including the 
same address, with the only difference that his brother has the reverse of Mr Ps first and 
middle name. But Experian have now corrected the error that had reoccurred this year, and 
Mr Ps data is no longer showing on his brothers Experian credit report.When we look at complaints, we look to see if a consumer has lost out financially due to an 
error that occurred. If they have, well look to put them back in the position they would be in if 
the financial business complained about hadnt made a mistake. In this case Mr P has not 
provided any evidence to show that he has incurred any financial loss as a direct result of 
Experians error. However, he has told us that this issue did cause him distress and 
inconvenience - so Ive taken this into consideration.
Mr P says when his twin brother informed him about his personal information appearing on 
his credit report it was not a pleasant conversation, and it was enormously embarrassing for 
him. So I appreciate finding out about the errors caused him distress and inconvenience. But 
taking everything into consideration I think the £200 total compensation offered to Mr P is fair 
and reasonable considering the impact this has had on Mr P. 
I realise Mr P still has concerns about the severity of the breaches and would like Experian 
to offer a permanent fix, but this service is designed to resolve problems on individual cases 
and we are not a regulator. We dont punish businesses for their mistakes or tell them how to 
change their processes or systems. So this decision wont be able to deal with all of his 
concerns, but, I think what Experian has agreed to do to resolve his complaint is fair and 
reasonable considering the circumstances of this complaint. 
Whilst I realise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Im not asking Experian 
to pay any further compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to him, above the 
£200 they have already offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part.
Experian Limited should pay Mr P £200 compensation if they already havent done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman