DRN-3902095
The complaint
Mr O has complained that his insurance broker, Affinity Insurance Solutions Limited (AISL) 
mis-sold him his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O took out a telematics/ black box policy through AISL in October 2020. On 18 
September 2022 he made a claim on his policy after his car was stolen. Mr O said when he 
took the policy out, he was informed that there was a stolen vehicle helpline which was part 
of his policy and which he could call if his car was stolen. The helpline staff would then start 
tracking the car immediately. He said the existence of the helpline was what led him to buy 
this particular policy.
Mr O said he called the helpline to report the theft, but it was closed as the theft took place 
over a weekend; followed by a national holiday. He also said when he did speak to 
someone, he was told that the number hed called wasnt the number for the stolen vehicle 
helpline and that he would have to get in touch with his insurer instead. Mr O wasnt happy 
about this and complained that his policy had been mis-sold. He said if hed known there 
was no helpline, he would not have taken the policy out.
 
AISL considered Mr Os complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said the insurer provided full 
cover and settled the claim in full under the terms and conditions of the policy. Therefore, the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr O then complained to us. He said that AISL had lied about its procedures and took no 
steps to help with the recovery of his car. He said he wanted a full refund of his insurance 
premiums as well as compensation to go towards his premium for the following year as this 
situation led to him losing his no claims bonus (NCB). He said if the insurer had acted as it 
should, he would have recovered his car and then decided whether to make a claim or not. 
He added that he should also be awarded compensation as:
He should have been provided with a courtesy car; 
He had to spend money on car rental and petrol for colleagues while his claim was 
ongoing;
He suffered distress and inconvenience.
 
Our Investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold and said that Mr O had been able to make a successful 
claim under his policy in any event. She felt that Mr Os concerns stemmed from the service 
he received from his insurer in relation to his claim and said that those concerns had been 
the subject of a separate complaint to our organisation. She added that the helpline Mr O 
had referred to was in place but there was confusion when he called it. She said the handler 
Mr O spoke to should have given him a different number to call rather than refer him to his 
insurer.
 
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said the paperwork he was 
sent said that the helpline would start tracking the car immediately but that wasnt the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it.
 
What I will be considering in this decision
As I mentioned above, Mr O made a separate complaint to our service about the service he 
received from his insurer with regards to his theft claim. That complaint was considered 
separately by one of our Investigators. In this decision I will only be looking at Mr Os 
mis-sale complaint against his broker, AISL.
Also in his complaint to us Mr O said he should be awarded compensation for not being 
provided with a courtesy car and for other expenses. As those are all complaints about his 
policy cover and therefore his insurer- and not his broker- I will not be looking into those in 
this decision.
The mis-sale complaint
Those who sell insurance have a responsibility to provide clear, fair and non-misleading 
information about the cover provided so that consumers can make an informed decision 
about whether or not to buy it. To make an informed decision about whether to take a policy 
out, a consumer should be made aware of the type of cover provided and any significant or 
unusual restrictions. 
Mr O told us he took the policy out via a price comparison website. In this case this was a 
non-advised sale meaning that AISL didnt recommend the policy to Mr O as being suitable 
for him. Instead, Mr O was supported in deciding for himself whether or not this policy was 
suitable.
Mr O said that the information he was provided with when he took the policy out, said that 
the policy came with a stolen vehicle helpline. This helpline would start tracking a stolen 
vehicle immediately. Mr O said if it werent for the helpline, he would not have taken the 
policy out. 
When Mr O took the insurance policy out, he was sent documents which said that the theft 
tracker would be activated when the black box was fitted. In terms of theft tracking the 
documents say that if the vehicle is stolen the insured must arrange for the tracking 
functionality to be activated. It goes on to say that the insured must log on to their dashboard 
to obtain a phone number of the secure operating centre but before contacting the centre 
he/she must report the theft to the police and obtain an incident number. It says the incident 
number must be confirmed with the secure operating centre before the centre can activate 
the tracking function. I dont think there was anything misleading or unfair in that particular 
part of the policy documents. 
When his vehicle was stolen Mr O called the number he was provided with for the helpline 
but he said the helpline was closed as it was a Sunday. He managed to get through a few 
days later and spoke to someone who told him he was from the company that provided the 
black box and that there was a separate number to call with regards to stolen vehicles and 
that he should be calling his insurer instead to get this number. Mr O called the number 
again as he said this was the number he was given by the system when he logged on to his 
dashboard. He was again told by the same handler that this was not the correct number and 
that the handler couldnt report a stolen vehicle.  Mr O said it took days for the tracking to 
start which went against what his documentation said which was that the tracking would start 
immediately. I appreciate Mr O was frustrated that he couldnt get through to someone on the helpline on 
the day his car was stolen despite getting a message on his dashboard which said that 
tracking would start immediately. And I also understand that he was frustrated to be later told 
that the number he had called was incorrect when in fact this was the number he was 
provided with when he logged his claim on the dashboard. But I dont think this means that 
the policy was mis-sold to him by AISL. As our Investigator said I think these are issues with 
the service provided to Mr O by his insurer and its agents and not by AISL.
 
Mr O said there was no helpline and therefore the documents he had been sent when he 
took the policy out were incorrect. AISL told us that there was a stolen vehicle helpline. It 
said that at the time of Mr Os claim the black box was being operated by a company called 
Q whose contract with the insurer was coming to an end. AISL said this created confusion 
which meant that when Mr O called the helpline, he wasnt given correct information. Q told 
AISL that its handler should have given Mr O a different number to register the vehicle theft. 
It said there was a tracking process in place but due to the confusion with Q it wasnt 
followed. AISL said that, nevertheless, Mr Os insurance claim was settled by the insurer in 
full and Mr O was awarded compensation for the confusion and the inconvenience this 
caused in his separate complaint about the insurer. 
From what I have seen, I think that it is more likely than not that there was a helpline in place 
that tracked the vehicle and I say this because the car was ultimately tracked and 
information was given to the police. Nevertheless, I think its likely that the helpline didnt 
operate as it should have on that particular occasion but as I said above I dont think this 
was something that was within AISLs control. I think it was the insurers responsibility as it 
controls the claims process. 
If I were to find that the policy was mis-sold one of the remedies available would be for me to 
ask AISL to refund Mr Os premiums- as Mr O requested. But that would mean that the 
policy was never sold to Mr O and that it wasnt suitable for him. However, the fact that Mr O 
was able to successfully claim under his policy means it was suitable for him. For these 
reasons I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Another possible remedy would be for me to 
ask the broker to pay the claim instead- but this would only apply in cases where the insurer 
justifiably turned the claim down which wasnt the case here as the insurer settled Mr Os 
claim. So, again for this reason I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr O asked for compensation for distress and inconvenience. I agree with our Investigator in 
that any distress and inconvenience Mr O may have suffered would have been down to the 
service he received as a result of how his claim was handled. And this wasnt down to AISL 
as it didnt relate to the way the policy was sold. So, I wont be asking AISL to pay any 
compensation to Mr O on this particular occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman