DRN-3878684
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) hasnt carried out a service 
on his heating system as it should have, and that it caused significant distress when it sent a 
letter to the wring address. 
What happened
Mr Q has a policy with D&G that provides him with an annual service for his heating system 
and also cover for repairing or replacing his boiler if it develops a fault.
When D&G carried out a service through one of its contractors, it wasnt done as Mr Q 
expected. He complained about this. D&G checked with the contractor who said the service 
had been carried out to industry standards  so D&G thought it had complied with its 
obligations. During the complaints process Mr Q said hed not received a letter D&G claimed 
to have sent him. It turned out that D&G sent this to an address unconnected to him. D&G 
sent Mr Q a copy of the letter straight away and apologised for the problem this caused.
Mr Q doesnt think the service has been carried out as described in the contract, nor does he 
think D&G handled the point about the wrong address satisfactorily.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr Q, and Ill explain how I 
reached this decision.
Mr Q has complained about two things so Ill comment on them separately. If I dont mention 
a specific point, its because Im concentrating on what I see as the main issues.
The service
I appreciate that Mr Q doesnt think the service was carried out according to the terms and 
conditions in his policy, so Ive thought about what these say. They say, in summary, that an 
annual service will be carried out in accordance with statutory requirements. D&G checked 
with the contractor if the service had been carried out in line with these requirements  and 
the contractor said that this largely involved a visual inspection of the boiler, which is what it 
had done. I do think its fair for D&G to rely on the information it received from the expert 
who carried out the service, and theres nothing that suggests the service wasnt in line with 
regulations. I appreciate that services carried out by other contractors might be more 
invasive in nature  but that isnt what Mr Qs policy requires, so I cant conclude that D&G 
did anything wrong here. Nor can I say that the fact that the service was different to Mr Q 
expectations automatically means the policy (which covered much more than the service 
alone) was mis-sold. 
Complaint handling
Mr Q says D&G didnt respond in a reasonable time frame and when he chased this up he 
discovered D&G had sent a letter to the wrong address. D&G apologised and re-issued the 
letter correctly within a couple of days. I do understand that Mr Q was worried his personal 
details had been sent to someone he doesnt know, but there doesnt seem to have been 
any negative impact arising from this mistake.
I do agree that D&G made a mistake here, but it did correct this as soon as it became aware 
of this and apologised. I think thats a fair way to handle this part of the complaint.
Taking everything into account, I think D&G has done enough to put things right for Mr Q. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman