DRN-3495217
The complaint
Mr W complains he has been treated unfairly by Zopa Limited when it closed its peer to peer 
(P2P) lending platform. He says the wind down of the platform hasnt followed the terms of 
his investment and he has lost out financially because of this. 
What happened
Mr W held P2P lending accounts for a number of years on Zopas platform and invested 
funds in return for interest.  
On 7 December 2021, Zopa advised investors that it would be stopping consumer 
investments and transferring all loans to its newly formed parent company. It proposed to 
buy Mr Ws loan portfolio at current face value (plus any interest that borrowers had already 
paid up to the date of sale) and said hed receive his investment balance back by 31 January 
2022.
Mr W complained as he felt the decision made was done on beneficial terms to Zopa and
to the detriment of its investors like himself.
Mr W said he lost the expected returns because he wanted his loans to be allowed to 
progress to maturity, accepting the risk he took when originally investing. He requested Zopa 
pay him the amount he could have received had he held the loans until the end of their 
terms. 
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
- The more stringent conduct rules introduced by the FCA in December 2019 were 
material to the decision to close the platform. The new regulation included the 
requirement to test prospective customers on their understanding of the risks of 
investing in P2P loans and certify both new and existing investors. This has made it 
more expensive to run the platform. And it had seen a decline in the P2P market in 
recent years. All of this meant the directors considered the ongoing commercial 
viability of the business.
- Zopas principles have remained unchanged throughout the announcement. It strived 
to be as open and transparent as possible with customers at all times. The principles 
make clear that the link to the contingency plan is provided for information purposes 
only.
- Mr W was unable to opt out of the sale as Zopa was purchasing his loans at face 
value. It believed this is the best outcome for investors as the purchase will lock in 
any returns already earned and ensure funds are available to withdraw in a timely 
manner, rather than having to wait for the investment balance to wind down over up 
to five years.
As Mr W didnt agree with this response.  He referred his complaint to this service for 
independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. 
In summary she said:
- She didnt find that Zopa had treated investors unfairly when it closed the platform.
- She considered Zopas Investor Principles, specifically Principle 14 where Zopa 
detailed a contingency plan if it was no longer able to trade or chose to wind up the 
business. And while what Zopa actually did wasnt directly in line with the published 
plan, she didnt ultimately think this was unfair. She said this was because Zopa 
agreed to buy the loans at face value including those that were marked as in arrears.
- She didnt find that Zopas actions caused Mr W any loss  and in fact the decision 
guaranteed repayments from some loans that were at enhanced risk of defaulting as 
they were already having payment problems.
- She didnt agree Zopa were responsible for Mr W losing out on expected future 
returns. Rather she found the way Zopa decided to wind up their P2P platform meant 
he got the value of the loan book at the point the loans were bought. And as future 
returns arent guaranteed, by repaying loans on wind up it took away the potential 
risks of loans defaulting if kept. 
- While there is an agreement to loan money to each borrower, Mr Ws relationship is 
with Zopa as his agent. Zopa decided to end the relationship and made sure Mr W 
did not lose out financially as a result, by buying his loans. As a result, his agreement 
with the borrower also ended.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a decision to be made by an 
ombudsman. He provided further submissions  in summary he said:
- He fully intended to retain each loan until it finished, went into default, or was repaid 
early, exactly as he had for thousands of prior loans over a period of eight years of 
continuous long-term investment. It was Zopa's actions that prevented him from 
exercising this intention. Any potential detriment of this plan was clearly 
communicated to investors in (the original version of) the Zopa wind-down plan and 
formed part of his informed decision to invest. 
- His loans were sold to a third party. It was made very clear in the communications 
that Zopa Limited was not acquiring his loans  but a different entity in the Zopa 
group. He doesnt agree it is Zopas unilateral decision to make.
- He doesnt agree he has received face value for his loans. He says this is the amount 
he would have received had he held the loans until the end of the loan term. Under 
this definition, his loans werent sold at face value, but rather at a substantial 
discount. He doesnt think Zopa had the option to buy his loans at any price unless 
he agreed to sell. 
- He legally owns his loans; the loan contract is between him and the borrower. Under 
this arrangement, Zopa itself is a third party, simply administering these contracts in 
return for a fee, much like a letting agent. It has no claim on the underlying contracts.
- Zopa did not wind up its business in accordance with the published contingency plan, 
specifically it did not give him 30 days notice, and did not allow him to opt out if the 
loans were sold for less than the amount he would have received had he held the 
loans until the end of the term. 
- His investment had already been exposed to its greatest risk since the majority of 
loans that go into default do so early, so they would therefore already have defaulted 
at the point Zopa acquired the good loans remaining, and this absorbed risk was not 
compensated by Zopa, who did not refund the defaulted loans.
- He doesnt accept Zopa's actions didn't cause him a loss as this would only be 
possible if he found an alternative investment vehicle matching or exceeding the 
projected returns he should have received from his Zopa investment. He believes he 
should be compensated for his time and risk in doing this. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa has provided the reasons why it decided to close its P2P platform to retail customers. It 
says this was essentially due to commercial viability, market conditions and challenges 
brought about by regulation. So it appears Zopa was exercising its commercial judgement 
when deciding whether its P2P platform was viable on an ongoing basis. This is something it 
is able to do and not something I am able to make judgement on. But I can consider whether 
Mr W has been treated fairly in how his investments have been administered as a result of 
this decision. 
As a starting point, Ive reviewed Zopas Investor Principles and note the contents of the 
section relating to ending the agreement. Amongst other things this explains if Zopa wants to 
end the agreement it will give 30 days notice to lenders. They go on to say that any 
outstanding loans will be sold either on the secondary market, or to Zopa or a third party if it 
has implemented its wind-down plan. Details are included in the Investor Principles. This 
section explains:
 circumstances may arise where we are unable to continue to operate the Zopa platform 
and have to wind-down our business; for example, changes in regulation or market or 
economic conditions may mean that we can no longer operate the platform in a sustainable 
and profitable manner. 
This all supports that it was possible for Zopa to close the platform in circumstances where it 
was no longer able to operate the platform in a sustainable and profitable manner. It doesnt 
say that it will only seek to close the platform if the business has failed and was being put 
into administration. The Investor Principles gave Zopa broad discretion in terms of closing 
the platform and selling Mr Ws loans (despite his ascertain that he was the owner of the 
loans). I note Mr W says Zopa didnt sell the loans to itself but rather to a third party. While it 
does seem the loans were sold to another entity in the Zopa group, whether this is a third 
party or not doesnt impact by findings as the possibility of both scenarios is covered. I 
accept Mr W had a desire to remain invested and his dissatisfaction with the decision made. 
But ultimately, this wasnt something he could influence, and I dont think Zopa has treated 
him unfairly or that it has acted outside of the Investor Principles in making this decision. 
A website link was provided giving more information about the wind-down plan. Ive reviewed 
the information given on Zopas website about this. It details what would happen if Zopa 
were to stop operating its P2P platform  and says we may carry out one of the following 
strategies. It then provides three options for actions it may take. The last scenario is of 
relevance here as this describes the sale of loans. It says Zopa may sell your loans for less 
than you would have received had you held the loans until the end of the loan term. But, if 
we decide to do this, we'll notify you of our decision 30 days in advance of the proposed sale 
and you'll be able to opt out of the sale and retain your loans.
Ive considered the above alongside the circumstances of what actually happened with the 
sale of Mr Ws loans. Ive done this to in order to reach a decision on whether there have 
been failings that led to Mr W being treated unfairly  and if there has whether he has 
suffered a financial loss as a result. 
Mr W was given notice of Zopas intention to sell his loans in early December. He was told 
this would be completed by the 31 January 2022, but his loans started to be sold soon after 
the notice was given, and the full sale happened by mid-January. Mr W wasnt given an 
option to opt out of sale and retain his loans. So, on the one hand, the evidence doesnt support that Zopa followed its published wind-down plan. On the other hand, the Investor 
Principles do support that Zopa can sell Mr Ws loans without his agreement  either to itself 
or a third party. Also, the published wind-down plan provides potential strategies that Zopa 
may follow as oppose to something it will categorically follow. 
I can understand why Mr W feels Zopa has acted unfairly by not providing him with the ability 
to opt out of loan sale and remain invested. But I dont think it is clear cut that there has been 
a failing here. And in any case even if I were to accept there was a failing, I dont think 
overall Mr W has been treated unfairly or suffered a loss. Ill explain why. 
Zopas approach to repaying loans involved Mr W receiving his capital back for loans and 
interest that had been acquired. The benefit of taking this course of action was it gave a 
quick guaranteed return of capital on loans  including those that had late payments. The 
risk of default on loans with payment problems is heightened, so the fact capital was 
returned on these loans was beneficial to lenders like Mr W. I appreciate Zopas approach 
did mean there was no option to continue earning interest on loans that hadnt reached 
maturity. But Im also conscious that future interest payments werent guaranteed either, and 
the risk of future default remained for all loans - even those with a good payment history. 
I acknowledge Mr W believes he should receive a return of his capital and all the interest 
due from the full loan terms. And because he hasnt received this, he doesnt accept that he 
has been paid face value for his loans. He also says his investment had already been 
exposed to its greatest risk since the majority of loans that go into default do so early. I 
understand the argument Mr W makes here about risk, but I dont accept it is as clear cut as 
he suggests. The risk of default continues throughout the term of a loan and some of the 
loans had started to see the potential materialisation of this risk as they were in arrears.  
Having carefully considered these points, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Zopa to pay 
returns where there was no guarantee they would be achieved. So, I agree that Zopas 
approach of assessing the sale price at the time is a fair and reasonable way of deciding 
what should be returned to Mr W. While I understand why Mr W would have preferred to 
continue investing, I dont agree that he has suffered a financial loss as a result of the action 
Zopa took. 
In conclusion, while Zopa hasnt fully followed wind-down process, I think overall it has 
treated Mr W fairly. The Investor Principles do explain the possibility of Zopa deciding to end 
the agreement and sell outstanding loans either to itself or a third party. Essentially Zopa has 
made a commercial consideration about the viability of the platform and decided to close it. 
On balance, Im satisfied the decision to repay Mr W the capital on his loans (included those 
with late payment) outweighs the concerns I have identified with not fully following the 
published wind down process. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but I 
havent found that Zopa need to pay him any further compensation from the loan sale. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman