DRN-1834335
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold his life assurance policy by the Family Assurance 
Friendly Society Limited (trading as One Family).
What happened
In 2004, Mr R completed an application form for a whole-of-life assurance policy. The 
guaranteed sum assured was for £1,292 to be paid out on death after two years of the policy 
being in force. The monthly policy premiums are £12.
In 2013, Mr R had paid more in premiums than the sum assured. He told One Family he was 
unhappy in 2015 and complained further in 2019. Mr R explained that he wants the policy to 
be paid up so he doesnt have to continue to pay the premiums. One Family explained to 
Mr R that his policy isnt a savings plan. So, if he stops paying the premiums, the policy will 
terminate and wont pay out any value.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service and said he was pressured into taking out the 
policy by a salesman. He said he wasnt made aware that he may pay more into it than the 
policy would pay out.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said it appears Mr R was sent all the 
relevant information about the policy before he agreed to take it out, and that the risks were 
made clear to him. The investigator also explained that there wasnt enough to show that Mr 
R was pressured into taking this policy out.
Mr R disagreed. He said he remembers a salesman being very determined for him to take 
out the policy and feels the salesman was motivated by sales volumes. Mr R also felt the 
policy was unethical given hes been allowed to pay in more than the policy would pay out. 
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint so its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr R feels very strongly that he was pushed into taking out this policy by a 
salesman. My role here is to weigh up the evidence available and decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether One Family has done something wrong.
Mr Rs policy is an over 50s plan  that is a whole-of-life assurance policy which pays out a 
specific sum assured when the policyholder passes away. The policy requires a monthly 
premium to be paid throughout the life of the policyholder. Neither the sum assured or 
premiums change throughout the policy. Many people took these plans to provide money to 
help with their funeral costs.
Mr Rs complaint is that he wasnt made aware he may pay more in premiums than the 
policy would pay out on death. And he believes this makes the policy unethical. He also says 
he was pressured into taking out the policy. He remembers a salesman being determined throughout the sale. This may have been the case, but I cant see that Mr R was given any 
advice to take out the policy. What I mean by this is that theres no record that One Family 
looked into all of Mr Rs circumstances and made a personal recommendation about which 
plan was suitable. As there was no advice, I have to determine if Mr R was given enough 
information about the policy to make an informed decision. I think he was.
The Key Features leaflet that Mr R was provided with says, under Your Commitment:
You will pay a fixed monthly premium throughout your life. If you stop paying premiums your 
life cover will stop.
So, I think Mr R was made aware that he would have to continue to pay his premiums to 
keep the policy in force. The Key Features leaflet also says, under Risk Factors:
Depending on how long you have your policy, what you have paid in premiums may be 
more than is paid out in death
I think its clear from this that Mr R may end up paying more in premiums than the policy 
would pay out  and this is the situation hes found himself in. So, I think One Family has 
done enough to make Mr R aware that he may pay more in premiums than the policy pay 
out would be.
Mr R said he was pressured into taking the policy so Ive looked at the evidence I have. Mr R 
recalls a salesman and signing the application on the same day. The application form hes 
completed does look like a postal application. I say this because it has Mr Rs name and 
address printed onto the application form and asked Mr R to complete and return the form if 
he would like to take out the cover. I can see that Mr R did complete the application form and 
appears to have selected his premium and sum assured. Hes also completed his direct 
debit details. So, I think its likely Mr R had all the information and chose to complete this 
application. I havent seen anything to suggest he was pressured into taking the policy, or 
that Mr R didnt have time to consider the information before completing the application form. 
So I dont think One Family has done something wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman