DRN-3935103
The complaint
Mr H and Ms S complain about delays when they applied to re-mortgage with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. They ask that Barclays gives them the benefit of the fixed interest rate product they 
chose for the full five years. 
What happened
Mr H and Ms S applied to Barclays for a mortgage via a broker in 2021. They say the 
process took more than six months due to errors by Barclays, including their application 
being held in Barclays systems for seven to eight weeks due to a system error. Mr H says 
despite Barclays upholding their complaint in December 2021 it made further errors which 
delayed the valuation.
Mr H and Ms S have other complaints about the application process. This includes Barclays 
asking for information theyd already provided; wrongly saying they had a large loan; 
carrying out an extra credit search without telling them (which left a record on their credit 
files); and one part of Barclays failing to pass on credit searches to another. 
Barclays accepted there had been delays due to a system issue. It paid £300 to Ms S. It 
offered another £300 compensation in late 2021. 
Mr H says that due to the delay they missed out on four months of the five-year fixed interest 
rate product he chose in November 2021. He says they should get the benefit of the full five 
years starting from April 2022 when the mortgage completed, and to achieve this Barclays 
should add four months onto the end of the product term. 
Our investigator said Barclays should pay compensation for the delay in re-mortgaging 
based on the difference between the interest rates on Mr H and Ms Ss previous mortgages 
and the Barclays mortgage. Barclays agreed to do this, and to pay further compensation.
Mr H and Ms S didnt agree. Mr H said Barclays made the error and it should rectify the error 
by paying the difference in interest for four months after the end of the product term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays did cause delays with Ms S and Mr Hs mortgage application. The first application, 
made on behalf of Mr H and Ms S by their broker, didnt progress due to a problem with 
Barclays systems. The broker had to re-submit the application in November 2021. 
Mr H says there were some further issues with the valuation being arranged. Barclays 
issued a mortgage offer at the end of January 2022. The mortgage completed in early April 
2022. Mr H and Ms S chose a five-year fixed interest rate product. The product expires on 
30 November 2026.
The terms of the fixed interest rate product that Mr H and Ms S chose said it would expire on 
30 November 2026  this was the basis on which the product was offered. The expiry date 
was clearly set out in the mortgage offer. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Barclays to change the terms and conditions of the product (to extend it by four months) or 
pay compensation based on an assumption about what interest rates might be available at 
the end of the product term.
Barclays error delayed the mortgage application being processed, with a resulting delay in 
the mortgage completing. Mr H and Ms Ss financial loss is the additional interest they paid 
during this delay, due to their previous mortgages being on higher interest rates. It seems 
the parties agree the delay was for four months. 
The calculation of Mr H and Ms Ss loss needs to take into account that Mr H and Ms S 
repaid a first charge mortgage and a second charge loan when they re-mortgaged. The 
interest rate on the second charge loan was higher. The calculation also needs to take into 
account that the Barclays mortgage loan is smaller than the combined balance of the 
previous mortgage and second charge loan. 
I think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation calculated as follows: 
(1) using the amount of the funds transferred to Mr H and Ms Ss solicitor by Barclays and 
the product rate, calculate the amount of interest that would have been applied for four 
calendar months ending on the date the mortgage completed. 
(2) calculate the amount of interest applied to the second charge loan for four calendar 
months ending on the date the mortgage completed. 
(3) calculate the portion of the first charge mortgage repaid from the Barclays mortgage (by 
deducting the amount paid to the second charge lender from the funds transferred to 
Mr H and Ms Ss solicitor by Barclays). Using the result, calculate the amount of interest 
applied to this portion of the first charge mortgage for four calendar months ending on 
the date the mortgage completed. 
(4) Add together the results of (2) and (3) and deduct from the total the result of (1). The 
result is the financial loss suffered by Mr H and Ms S due to the delays in their re-
mortgage completing.
(5) Barclays should pay the result of (4) to Mr H and Ms S with interest at 8% simple from 
the date the mortgage completed to the date of payment.
Mr H and Ms S have provided redemption statements from their previous lenders and the 
final statement prepared by their solicitor, which shows the amounts paid to the second 
charge and first charge lenders. Both parties agree the interest rate on the first charge 
mortgage was 3.59%. Mr H and Ms S provided a letter from the second charge lender 
confirming the interest rate being applied was 7.7%. I think its fair for Barclays to request 
copies of these, which evidence Mr H and Ms Ss financial loss. If Mr H and Ms S accept my 
decision, our investigator can, if they wish, send these documents direct to Barclays.
I appreciate the inconvenience for Mr H and Ms S in providing this information. But, for it to 
be fair for me to require Barclays to calculate and pay compensation for their financial loss, 
they did need to provide this evidence. 
Mr H and Ms S had raised concerns when they brought the complaint to us about an 
additional credit search carried out due to the delays. We asked if they were still concerned 
about this, but they didnt respond to say they were. Barclays took too long to process Mr H and Ms Ss application. This caused them worry and 
inconvenience. Their application had to be re-submitted and their financial information 
updated. Barclays paid £300 to Ms S and offered a further £300. I think for the upset and 
inconvenience caused, £600 (in total) is fair and reasonable, and so Barclays should pay 
another £300 as it offered to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman