DRN-3349357
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way Axa Insurance UK Plc (Axa) have dealt with their 
claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out a home insurance policy with Axa. In March 2021 the gates to their 
property were hit by a lorry. Mr C made a claim on the policy to cover the damage caused. 
Axa settled the claim, after first deducting the £250 excess.
Mr C complained to Axa about delays in paying the settlement and that he had to pay the 
excess when the damage had not been his fault. He was also unhappy that Axa werent 
doing enough to recover the claim costs from the third party and that this would affect the 
cost of the premium at renewal. Axa said that the excess is payable regardless of who 
caused the damage and that recovery of the excess from the third party was discretionary 
and would depend on whether it was cost effective for them to pursue recovery. They could 
not give a time frame for how long this might take. They also said that the claim would have 
an impact on the cost of renewal regardless of fault and recovery. Axa did, however, accept 
that there were delays with settlement and paid Mr C £150 compensation. 
Mr C accepted the compensation for the delayed settlement but wasnt happy with Axas 
response regarding the excess and recovery. He brought his complaint to this service on 
behalf of himself and Mrs C. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. She said it was clear that the policy included an excess and that 
there was no obligation on Axa to recover it. She said that any claim, regardless of fault, is 
likely to affect future premiums. Mr C didnt agree and asked for the matter to be considered 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most insurance policies include a policy excess. This is the amount the policyholder has to 
pay as a contribution towards the cost of any claim made under the policy. Looking at Mr 
and Mrs Cs policy, I can see that their standard policy excess is £250. This is clearly shown 
in the policy schedule.
The policy excess is payable regardless of whether or not the policyholder is responsible for 
the damage. Its then up to the insurer to decide  if it thinks its policyholder isnt to blame for 
the damage  whether to pursue the third party for recovery of its outlay. They will weigh up 
the commercial cost of doing so and is under no contractual obligation to their policyholder to 
undertake recovery. 
It is clear in Mr and Mrs Cs policy booklet under section 2 that the policy does not cover any 
excess payable and that Axa will deduct the excess shown in the schedule from any 
settlement. Axa settled Mr and Mrs Cs claim after deducting the £250 excess, and as the 
excess is payable regardless of fault, I dont think this was unreasonable.
I understand why Mr and Mrs C feel aggrieved - they have been the victims of a very 
unfortunate incident and are out of pocket to the sum of £250 through no fault of their own. 
The claim is also affecting their insurance premiums. However, making a claim on their 
policy was always likely to affect Mr and Mrs Cs premium  whether the incident was their 
fault or not. When a policy is due for renewal, the insurer assesses risk and decides how 
much to charge for another years insurance. Risk is affected by various factors including the 
likelihood of a policyholder making a claim. Any previous claims, and their value, can affect 
risk  whether fault or otherwise. I dont therefore think that Axas approach is unreasonable. 
Axa have said that if they do manage to recover all their outlay, they may be able to reduce 
the premiums in the future.  
Mr and Mrs C dont think that Axa have done enough to recover their costs and the excess. I 
understand why they may feel this way as it is now some time since the claim was settled 
and they are still out of pocket. However, Axa are not obliged to assist with recovery of the 
excess. They agreed to do so as part of their attempt to recover their own outlay. I can see 
from email correspondence that Axa have instructed a debt recovery service to act on their 
behalf. However, Axa have told us that contact with the third party, who is not a UK national, 
is proving difficult. Despite sending regular chasers, they have not yet been successful in 
making any recovery. 
Axa have never guaranteed to Mr and Mrs C that they would obtain recovery. They said that 
they would attempt to recover their costs and the excess, and I think they have done this. 
Axa say that these efforts are continuing for now, but ultimately they will have to make a 
commercial decision about whether recovery is going to be cost effective. I think that this is 
fair. 
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C. They have 
been the victims of an incident not of their own making and have lost out financially as a 
result. However, I cant, for the reasons Ive given, say that Axa have treated them unfairly, 
although in the circumstances Axa may wish to use their discretion under the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman