DRN-2727646
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nucleus Financial Services Ltd failed to take sufficient steps to 
prevent them becoming victims of fraud, resulting in nearly £150,000 being taken from their 
accounts.
What happened
All but £28,000 of this money was recovered via the receiving banks while Mr and Mrs Ms 
financial advisor agreed to pay half of this amount himself. Mr and Mrs M believe Nucleus 
should pay the remainder.
Nucleus did not agree, saying that it was satisfied it had followed the correct procedures and 
was therefore not to blame for any fraudulent transactions.
An investigator at this service agreed with Nucleus, saying:
Nucleus operates through financial advisers and typically doesnt have direct 
dealings with investors. It provides an investment platform which holds clients 
investments and deals with investing money, arranging sales and withdrawals. It 
carries out this role through financial advisers who ordinarily receive these 
instructions from their clients
When it receives instructions, it accepts them in good faith as they are coming from 
the advisers directly, and they would/ought to have their own fraud prevention 
systems
In its terms of business Nucleus does clearly set out this distance and that it wont be 
responsible for any losses incurred following an instruction it reasonably believes to 
be from a client via their adviser but which subsequently ends up being fraudulent
It isnt unreasonable for Nucleus to set out this limitation as it doesnt deal directly 
with clients, including where transactions are carried out instantly on its platform
As such, there would need to be evidence that Nucleus ought to have realised the 
instructions were fraudulent in order to uphold the complaint
While Mr M said that the signature on one of the forms should have been identified 
as being likely fraudulent, due to the signature being too perfect a match), he didnt 
agree. Instead, he thought the signature was merely of a reasonable similarity to the 
one it held on Mr Ms account, and shouldnt have given cause for concern that it 
might have been a pasted copy
This first form was also received just after Mr Ms financial adviser told Nucleus that a 
change of bank request was on the way, asking them to change it as soon as 
possible. This form, and the notice to expect it, would give Nucleus little reason to 
suspect the request wasnt genuine
While Mr M said that the second bank change request signature was also too 
perfect, he noted that Nucleus did question this change of bank details  whether it 
noticed what Mr M was referring to or not  and asked Mr Ms financial adviser to get 
verbal confirmation from him that the change request was genuine
In practice, Mr M was away at the time he received the message from his adviser 
and so asked him to discuss this with Mrs M. Unfortunately, the fraudster managed to 
intercept email communication, causing Mrs M to confirm to their adviser that the 
change request was genuine. Nucleus accepted this and carried out the change and 
subsequent withdrawals
He thought Nucleus took reasonable steps by asking the adviser for verbal 
confirmation that the change was genuine. Unfortunately, communication between 
Mr Ms adviser and Mr and Mrs M was intercepted and manipulated, thereby 
circumventing that protective step. Nucleus checked the request was genuine and 
had this confirmed by Mr Ms adviser. As such, it was reasonable for it to rely on this 
information
Mr M also complained that Nucleus didnt warn him of weaknesses in its money 
transfer system, particularly around confirming the receiver name - citing the FCA 
COBS rule 4.5.2R in support his argument
However, this referred to a recent procedural change/requirement that receiving 
banks must confirm payee names. Prior to this, the industry typically only used the 
sort code and account number and no payee name match was required
He also didnt think Nucleus needed to do more to provide Mr and Mrs M with more 
information about its security protocols and protections as there was no specific 
requirement for it to do so. It was required to follow the general FCA principles which 
include treating consumers fairly, acting with due skill, care and diligence and 
conducting business with integrity. He was satisfied it did this
It may be the case that either Mr Ms financial adviser or the receiving banks have 
some responsibility for what happened and so it would be possible for Mr and Mrs M 
to direct a complaint to one or both of them
Mr M disagreed, and said:
The investigators assessment failed to take into consideration a number of aspects 
that they set out in detail in their original submission
They are also concerned that he overlooked the fact that the real consideration 
should be in respect of the actions that took place between the parties before the first 
transaction took place as this is the only sum of money that was not recovered
Whilst there was an issue with bank details being checked in respect of the third 
transaction, this sum of money has since been recovered and, therefore, any focus 
on this aspect overshadows the real issue. If Nucleus had properly dealt with the first 
transaction, then the fraud would have been identified and the other transactions 
would never have followed
They are particularly concerned that the investigators assessment fails to properly 
address the fact that the change of bank details was sent directly to Nucleus and it failed to check with him that these were not fraudulent - either by calling or asking his 
adviser to do so at that stage
Whilst the investigator noted that his adviser had contacted Nucleus to advise that 
new bank details should be arriving, this does not mean that the ones that did arrive 
were correct and not fraudulent
The transaction could not go through with just his advisers confirmation that new 
bank details were being provided, this was only possible via Nucleus receiving the 
change of bank details form with a wet signature. It then made no attempt to check 
the authenticity of these bank details via verbal communication with him despite 
knowing full well the risk of fraud and fake signatures
This is an issue of causation that the investigator makes no attempt to address. His 
advisers actions in contacting Nucleus about the pending bank detail change did not 
and could not lead to the transaction being processed. The only way the fraudster 
could access his funds was because Nucleus acted on the change of bank request. 
Not carrying out verification checks with the source of the new bank details is absurd, 
highly negligent and, ultimately, led to the situation they are now in
What if he had actually asked to make the transaction and advised Nucleus he would 
be sending new bank details and then the fraudster had intercepted his emails to 
send his own bank details to Nucleus?
The investigators decision apparently offers Nucleus a get out of jail free card 
whenever there is an adviser involved at some point in the process, regardless of 
whether or not the advisers actions ultimately caused the fraud. So Nucleus has no 
responsibility to its clients or to carry out their its fraud checks?
This seems highly unfair: large providers such as Nucleus can be reckless and 
negligent and hide behind vague terms and conditions that have no bearing on what 
actually caused the loss
This decision is also completely contrary to a previous FOS decision, which he 
provided with their initial FOS submission, which found the provider 50% responsible 
even when the adviser sent the bank details directly to it. In this case the fraudster 
sent the bank details directly to Nucleus, his adviser only noting that they were on 
their way, not actually providing any bank details
Mr M made various other points which, in my view, reiterated or elaborated on those above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
I note that Mr and Mrs M have, thankfully, received back the later sums. I have therefore 
only considered whether Nucleus did anything wrong in relation to the first transaction.
Firstly, I agree that Nucleus terms and conditions are crucial in considering the merits of this 
complaint. In sections 3.11 and 3.12 clearly outlines the limits of its responsibility for any 
fraudulent instructions received from a clients registered advisor. I am satisfied that it was and is entitled to make such a stipulation, given the way it operates its execution-only 
services dealing directly with clients registered advisors.
In my view, it was therefore entitled in principle to accept any sale/transfer instructions from 
an advisor, assuming the correct paperwork was supplied and there were obvious grounds 
for concern. In the case of the first request, I dont share Mr Ms opinion that his signature 
was too perfect and ought to have alerted Nucleus to the possibility that it might have been 
cut and pasted. Having looked at the signatures, I dont accept they were identical and were 
therefore the latter was unlikely to be genuine.
I also agree with the investigator that Nucleus was not any obligation to take additional 
checks, such as confirming payee names, before this procedure became widespread and/or 
mandatory.
I acknowledge that the transfer could only have occurred after the confirmation of changed 
bank details had been received. But, crucially, Mr Ms advisor had provided this form, 
including Nucleus details to the fraudster. So, ultimately, it was the advisors failure to carry 
out sufficient security checks to confirm the request had come from Mr M that led to Nucleus 
receiving the necessary paperwork. In the absence any obvious grounds to question this 
form, I dont believe Nucleus was required to query this new bank instruction.
I have read Mr Ms lengthy initial submission, which he complains that the investigator did 
not fully consider, but again Im afraid I do not agree. I am satisfied she assessed the key 
grounds on which Mr Ms complaint might be upheld and addressed what she considered 
were the crucial.
My role, and that of this service, is to fully consider all the submissions from both parties but, 
having reached a view about the complaints overall merits, one isnt tasked with answering 
every point, detail or argument. I am satisfied that there is not sufficient, compelling evidence 
fairly conclude that Nucleus did anything wrong such that it ought to be held responsible for 
the fraudulent instruction resulting in Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman