DRN-4269521
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited paid a third partys claim 
under his car insurance policy and has said it would recovery its outlay from him.  
What happened
Mr S was asked to help his ex-partner move. Mr Ss son had a van but was disqualified from 
driving, so Mr S bought a short-term insurance policy with Watford to insure himself to drive 
his sons van for the move. 
Mr S didnt end up using his sons van, however, he was contacted by Watford to say a third 
party had reported that he was involved in an incident while driving the van. Photos taken at 
the scene of the accident showed it was Mr Ss son who was driving the van when it was 
involved in the incident with the third partys vehicle. 
Watford reviewed the claim and, as there was no other insurance covering the van, it was 
obliged to pay the third partys claim. It was deemed Mr Ss son was at fault for the accident 
and Watford said that, as Mr S was the only person insured to drive the van, the policy didnt 
provide cover for the circumstances of the accident. And, as Watford was obliged under the 
Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA) to pay the third partys claim, it said it would look to recover the 
money it had paid out from Mr S. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained but Watford didnt change its position, so Mr S 
brought his complaint here. He said it wasnt fair that he was held responsible for the claim 
costs when it wasnt him driving the van at the time and it wasnt his van. He also said his 
partner had now also had their insurance cancelled as they hadnt realised this claim needed 
to be declared to their insurer. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Watford was obliged under the RTA 
to pay the third partys claim. She also found the policy said in situations like this that 
Watford was entitled to recover its outlay from Mr S. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and asked for an Ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy say it does not cover:
Claims arising from the following:
 
Your Car being driven by or in the charge of any person who is not 
named as entitled to drive on Your Certificate of Motor 
Insurance.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ss son was driving at the time of the incident, or that he isnt 
insured to drive the van. The policy definition of Your Car refers to the car insured by the 
policy. Im therefore satisfied this term applies. The van was taken by someone who had 
permission to use it, as the van belongs to Mr Ss son, so Im also satisfied Watford is 
applying it fairly by saying it doesnt want to cover claims caused by someone who isnt 
covered by the policy. 
The policy also goes onto say:
3. Right of recovery 
If under the laws of any country in which this insurance applies, We 
have to make payments which but for those laws would not be covered 
by this Policy, You must repay the amounts to Us. If any claims or 
other monies are paid to You by mistake for any reason, or a claim has 
been paid which We later find to be fraudulent, false or exaggerated, 
You must repay the amount paid by Us.
As Mr Ss son wasnt covered by the policy and there was no other insurance policy in place, 
Watford would therefore be required under the RTA to settle the third partys claim. So, Im 
not persuaded its acted unfairly by paying them. The policy, like most policies, allow Watford 
to recover from the policyholder costs its incurred due to the RTA, as it should never have 
incurred those costs. I appreciate this means Mr S is now likely to be liable for them, and 
while I do empathise with his situation, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for 
Watford to be responsible for costs it should never have incurred. Im therefore not going to 
interfere with its choice to recover costs for this claim from Mr S. However, to be clear, in this 
decision I havent considered the amount being recovered, if Mr S has a concern about how 
much Watford is trying to recover from him, it would need to be raised separately.  
Im also aware that Mr S has said his partner has had their car insurance policy cancelled 
due to not realising this claim needed to be declared to their new insurer. This isnt 
something I can comment on this decision, as the cancellation is on a different policy and 
done by another insurer. If Mr Ss partner thinks this cancellation is unfair, then that would 
need to be raised with the insurer who cancelled the policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman