DRN-4073665
The complaint
Mr H and Miss M complain that Zurich Insurance PLC unreasonably declined their travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss M, along with their son who Ill call X, held an annual travel insurance policy. 
Their policy was underwritten by Zurich, provided worldwide cover, and commenced on 30 
September 2022.
On 28 September 2022 X suffered an incident which needed emergency surgery on 30 
September 2022 and follow-up surgery on 27 October 2022. The family had been due to go 
on holiday on 23 October 2022, but Xs treating hospital said he shouldnt travel so Mr H and 
Miss M cancelled their trip and submitted a claim through the above policy. 
Zurich looked at the circumstances leading up to the claim and rejected it on the basis that 
cover hadnt been in place on 28 September 2022; the date of the actual incident. It also 
said thered been a material change in circumstances on that date, it was the customers 
duty of care to inform it of any such change which may affect the insurance, and that was 
something Mr H and Miss M had failed to do prior to the policy starting. 
Mr H and Miss M complained. They said it wasnt the incident that had caused the 
cancellation. Rather, it was the need for surgery which had taken place following the policys 
start date. But Zurich maintained its position and didnt uphold their complaint, so Mr H and 
Miss M referred it to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but they didnt uphold the complaint 
either as they were satisfied Zurich had declined the claim reasonably. Mr H and Miss M 
were unhappy with that outcome and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. So the matter is now for me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator before. Let me explain 
why.
Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. The cover available to Mr H, Miss M and X was set out in the relevant policy 
documentation  namely the policy schedule/validation certificate and the policy terms and 
conditions in which I noted:
The introduction pages of the terms and conditions explained:
In return for having accepted Your premium We will in the event of Bodily Injury, 
death, illness, disease, loss, theft, damage or specified events happening within the 
Period of Insurance provide insurance in accordance with the operative sections of 
Your policy as referred to in Your validation certificate.
The words highlighted in bold were specifically defined, and period of insurance was 
set out meaning:
 the policy start date and end date shown in the validation certificate. Cover for 
individual trips applies as follows:
for Section A  Cancellation Cover  cover applies from the policy start date or 
the date of booking a Trip, whichever is later, and ends when You leave Your 
Home to begin a Trip.  
The policy schedule/validation certificate listed the policy start date as 30 September 
2022. 
Mr H and Miss M have argued that while their policy started on 30 September 2022, their trip 
wasnt cancelled because of the incident on 28 September 2022. They say it was cancelled 
because of the follow-up surgery on 27 October 2022 instead.
I appreciate that position and empathise with Mr H and Miss Ms situation. But, in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was unreasonable of Zurich to find 
the cancellation reason connected to an event outside of the period of insurance. 
I say that because the need for follow-up surgery only arose because of an incident that 
occurred prior to the policy start date. So, save for that incident thered have been no need 
for any surgery, and in turn no need for a cancellation claim. 
Given the timeline of events and the proximate cause of the cancellation, in all the 
circumstances I cant fairly conclude that Zurichs decline was unreasonable or outside of the 
relevant policy terms. As such, I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
I recognise Mr H and Miss M will likely be further disappointed but I hope they can 
understand why I too have reached this position. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman