DRN-2260662
The complaint
Mr P, represented by a claim management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-sold 
a Wealth Builder savings plan by a predecessor business of Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
What happened
Mr P was sold the plan in 1992. Theres little documentation available from the time of the 
sale, but hes told us that he was aged 36, self-employed earning £5,000 a year and had a 
one-year-old daughter.
The Wealth Builder plan recommended to him was a non-qualifying endowment savings 
plan, set up for a term of 28 years to take him to retirement. His monthly contributions were
£50. He maintained these until 2004 when the policy was made paid-up, and he then 
surrendered it in 2009, receiving back less than hed paid in, following the deduction of a
£759 surrender charge.
In 2020 Mr Ps CMC complained to Sun Life that the plan had been unsuitable. It questioned 
the lengthy term and an apparent lack of consideration of alternatives, affordability and the 
level of risk involved.
Sun Life felt that the plan had been generally suitable for Mr P. But it did acknowledge that 
the application of a surrender charge was not ideal, so it offered to refund it, with interest.
The CMC didnt accept this as it was seeking compensation that reflected Mr P having 
invested in a more suitable alternative. It referred the complaint to this service, but our 
investigator reached the same conclusion as Sun Life.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint in which I explained why I thought it 
should be upheld. I said:
Sun Lifes view of the complaint is a little confusing. In its final response letter to Mr P it said 
that the length of time for which hed paid into the plan and retained it demonstrated a 
desire for disciplined medium-term savings.
But if Mr P most likely wanted to save for the medium-term  which I think is a reasonable 
conclusion given what we know about his circumstances at the outset, and the fact he 
maintained payments for only the medium-term  then this clearly wasnt a suitable 
recommendation for him.
The brochure described the plan as having a long-term nature and that the maximum 
benefit would be obtained by keeping the policy in force until age 65. In 1992, Mr P was 
aged 36 (so I accept he wasnt at the start of his adult working life), but he wasnt a high 
earner and he a very young dependent child. So, his circumstances were not particularly 
stable.
This being so, I see no reason why he wouldve wanted to commit to a plan that was 
intended to be held until age 65. And as he stopped making contributions less than halfway 
through the 28-year term and then surrendered the plan many years before its intended 
maturity, I dont think he did.
I note Sun Life upheld the complaint in part, in respect of the surrender charge applied. But 
again, its not entirely clear why it felt this was an issue. If the charge was an integral feature 
of the plan (the brochure isnt entirely clear, but there seems to have been provision for the 
deduction of unrecouped management expenses) and Sun Life is satisfied the plan was 
suitable and wouldve have been fully explained at the outset, I dont understand why the 
charge shouldve been refunded.
But in any event, the compensation I intend to award Mr P will take account of this by 
comparing the value he received in 2009 with the value his contributions would otherwise 
have attained if theyd been invested at a cautious level of risk.
I then went on to say:
I think this is reasonable as Im satisfied Mr P wouldve been happy to make a regular 
savings commitment and been prepared to accept a small amount of risk in doing so. But in 
a shorter-term, more flexible environment.
In summary, I think this plan was, by virtue of its clear long-term nature, intended for a 
specific objective of investing for retirement. And, while I accept theres limited evidence 
available, I dont think, on balance, this is something Mr P was likely to have had as an 
objective. So, I provisionally conclude that the plan was mis-sold.
Both parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I have nothing further to add other than to 
set out below how the compensation due to Mr P should be calculated. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I explained that I thought Mr P should be compensated by way of 
a comparison of the performance of the investment recommended to him with that of our 
cautious risk benchmark.
As the policy started prior to 1996 this will be a comparison with Bank of England base rate 
+ 1%, and taking into account the surrender charge that Sun Life agree should not have 
been deducted. 
Any loss thats determined by the calculation should have simple interest at 8% annually 
added from the date of surrender to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to pay compensation to Mr P 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman