DRN-2126799
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford Insurance) 
avoided her motor insurance policy. 
 
What happened
Mrs I took out a motor insurance policy with Watford Insurance through a price comparison 
website. When applying for the policy, Mrs I said she was the owner and registered keeper 
of her car. 
Earlier this year, Mrs Is car was stolen, so she submitted a claim. When investigating Mrs Is 
claim, Watford Insurance became aware that her son (who was a named driver under the 
policy) was the owner and registered keeper of her car. Mrs I says she was unable to get 
finance in her own name to buy a car. So, her son bought the car on finance, and she says 
she was making payments towards the car each month. 
Watford Insurance said Mrs I answered the questions it asked about the owner and 
registered keeper of the insured car incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or 
reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy, decline her claim, 
and keep the premiums shed already paid
Mrs I brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or 
reckless. Because of this, our investigator felt Watford Insurance were entitled to avoid 
Mrs Is policy and retain the premiums shed paid. 
Mrs I didnt agree with the investigator, so her complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Is complaint. I know this isnt the outcome she was 
hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance thinks Mrs I failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated in her application, via a comparison website, that she 
was both the owner and registered keeper of the car she wanted to insure. 
Ive looked at the questions Mrs I was asked when applying for a motor insurance policy. Ive 
also seen the information she was sent when the policy was set up. And having done this, 
I dont consider she took reasonable care when answering the questions or reviewing her 
policy documents. So, the next thing I had to consider is whether Mrs Is misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one. That means I had to determine whether Mrs Is misrepresentation 
made a difference to the cover she was offered.
Watford Insurance has sent us information from its underwriters. This shows it wouldnt have 
offered her cover had it known her son was the owner and the registered keeper of the car. 
This means Im satisfied Mrs Is misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Watford Insurance has said Mrs Is misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because 
she was aware that she wasnt the registered owner and keeper of the car. Theyve also said 
that if Mrs I needed help buying a policy then she could have arranged this before answering 
the questions in the application.
I agree that Mrs Is misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because I consider she was 
asked clear questions about the owner and registered keeper of the car. In addition to this, 
Mrs I would have been able to get clarification on what was meant by owner or registered 
keeper during the application. So, if she was unsure, she could have accessed the 
definitions to help her answer the questions correctly.
Mrs I has told us that she made a mistake during this application, and this was partly due to 
the fact English isnt her first language. Shes also told us about medical conditions and 
medication she takes that affects her memory.
I accept the reasons Mrs I has given may have impaired her ability to answer questions. 
However, I cant ignore the fact that she was aware of these issues before completing the 
application, without any support, but did so regardless. And its this that suggests Mrs I didnt 
care if she provided misleading information.
 
I also cant ignore the covering letter for Mrs Is policy documents told her to check the 
information she supplied was correct. The answers she provided were clearly set out, yet 
Mrs I didnt contact Watford Insurance to let them know of her mistake. This persuades me 
Mrs I ought to have known the owner and registered keeper of the car was important to 
Watford Insurance, or she didnt care that it was.  
As Im satisfied Mrs Is misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Watford Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA. And I agree 
that Watford Insurance was entitled to avoid Mrs Is policy and keep the premiums. It could 
also decline her claim, as effectively the policy never existed.
In light of the above, Im satisfied Watford Insurances decision was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And its for this reason, I wont be asking it to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Is complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman