DRN-4138245
The complaint
T, a company, complains about the sale of a group private medical insurance policy by 
Howden Employee Benefits & Wellbeing Limited. 
The complaint has been brought by Mr P, on behalf of T. 
What happened
In July 2020, T switched its private medical insurance cover to a new insurer (that Ill call 
Insurer Z). The switch was arranged by Howden. 
In 2022, a claim was made under the policy for Mr Ps son. Insurer Z turned down the claim 
as they said the policy specifically excluded monitoring of a medical condition. Mr P 
complained to Howden about the sale of the policy on behalf of T. He said Howden had led 
him to believe there were no exclusions on the policy. 
Howden didnt think it had done anything wrong, and said Insurer Z had accepted the policy 
without any personal exclusions. Unhappy with this, Mr P brought a complaint to this 
Service, on Ts behalf. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Howden had 
misled Mr P about the policy when it was sold. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Howden arranged the transfer to Insurer Z, Mr P advised it that he had information to 
disclose about his son and asked for Insurer Z to contact him directly about this. Insurer Z 
did so, and I understand they initially advised Mr P that they intended to apply a personal 
exclusion to the policy for his sons condition. If that had happened, then Mr Ps son wouldnt 
be able to make any claim for treatment of his condition. 
However, Howden then spoke with Insurer Z, and Insurer Z confirmed they would provide 
cover without applying the personal exclusion. Howden emailed Mr P and said:
[Insurer Z] have advised me that they called you to advise they would place an exclusion on 
the scheme for the declared condition. 
I can confirm that they have advised me that they will accept the transfer without any 
exclusions, so I assume on this basis you are happy to proceed with [Insurer Z]?
Mr P says he understood from this that there would be no exclusions on the policy. However, 
I think its apparent that Howden was referring to the personal exclusion that Insurer Z had 
previously advised him would apply to the policy. I note that Mr P responded to the email 
and confirmed he had been informed of a five-year exclusion for his sons condition, and 
asked if that was what Howden were referring to. I havent been provided with Howdens 
response to that email, but on balance, I think Mr P would have understood that Howden 
was referring to the personal exclusion for his sons condition.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality, and the policy terms set out what is covered 
and what is not. The exclusion that Insurer Z relied on to turn down Mr Ps sons claim is a 
very common one for private medical insurance policies. 
Mr P thinks Howden ought to have told him that Insurer Z wouldnt cover the monitoring of 
his sons condition. However, Howden says it wasnt aware of the details of Mr Ps sons 
condition, as Mr P spoke directly with the insurer about this. 
Mr P says Ts previous insurer covered his sons consultations in previous years. I dont 
know the details of why those claims were paid. Howden has provided this Service with the 
terms and conditions for the previous policy, and I see that this also excludes the monitoring 
of a medical condition. So I dont think the transfer to Insurer Z placed Mr Ps son at a 
disadvantage, even if Howden had known that Mr Ps son would need consultations to 
monitor his condition.
I therefore dont find that Howden mis-sold this policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman