DRN-4164320
The complaint
Mr D complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd trading as Succession Wealth 
(SW) delayed beyond good practice his investment instructions for his financial accounts, 
including his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), his Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and his General Investment Account (GIA). He considers that this led to a significant 
financial loss. 
SW has offered Mr D £250 compensation but he doesnt consider this is sufficient under the 
circumstances. 
What happened
Mr D used SW for financial advice. He said that during the annual review process in 2022 he 
agreed to reposition his investments held on two different investment platforms, which Ill 
refer to as platform A and platform B. 
Mr D said that dealing instructions were submitted on 1 July 2022. But that the divestment 
and reinvestment of the assets held on platform A wasnt initiated until 8 July 2022. And was 
only completed on 29 July 2022. 
Mr D said that the divestment and reinvestment of the assets held on platform B wasnt 
initiated until 12 August 2022. And was only completed on 24 August 2022. He felt there 
were significant and unnecessary gaps in the process. 
Mr D acknowledged hed agreed to follow a cautionary approach to the disinvestment and 
reinvestment. But felt it had taken longer than he expected to complete the process. And 
longer than would be deemed good practice. He felt that the time the process had taken had 
caused a significant loss due to investment prices having risen. So he complained to SW.
Mr D asked SW to investigate whether the trades had been exercised on a timely basis in 
line with its expected Service Level Agreements (SLA). And to assess whether hed suffered 
a financial loss as a result. 
Mr D provided his timeline of events:
He completed the instruction on 1 July 2022
Investments on platform A were liquidated on 11/12 July 2022
Drawdown was executed on platform A on 15 July 2022
All investments apart from one were executed on platform A on 20/21 July 2022
The final investment on platform A was executed on 29 July 2022, which was the 
closing date of the offering
His investments on platform B werent liquidated until 29 July 2022
The investments on that platform were executed on 17 August 2022 after the 
unwinding of automatic re-investment
Some retained assets in platform B were liquidated on 10 August 2022 and 
reinvested primarily on 11/12 August, although there were further deals on 23/24 
August 2022
His SIPP assets in platform B were liquidated on 12, 15 and 16 August 2022 and re-
invested on 16 and 18 August 2022
Mr D signed the dealing instruction on 28 June 2022 and his wife signed it on 1 July 2022. It 
stated:
Apart from the structured product, please wait until the [platform A] SIPP switches are 
complete before actioning the [platform B] switches to reduce time spent out of market.
SW issued its response to the complaint. It said that it had identified two errors when 
processing Mr Ds instructions between June and August 2022. It apologised for those 
errors, and for the time it had taken to reply to his complaint. 
It explained what the two errors were:
1. On 9 August 2022, £20,000 was invested into an incorrect fund within Mr Ds ISA. 
The error had been identified and corrected on 15 August 2022. 
2. On 10 August 2022, there was an underinvestment of £3,868.63 in the GIA Mr D 
jointly held with his wife. This was corrected on 23 August 2022. 
SW said that it had carried out loss assessment calculations to see if Mr D had suffered a 
loss because of these errors. But the calculations showed that he hadnt suffered a financial 
loss. SW offered Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the errors had 
caused him.
Mr D wasnt happy with SWs response. So he sent a follow-up complaint. While he agreed 
that the two errors SW had identified hadnt caused him a financial loss, he felt that the 
rectification of the auto-investment appeared to have delayed reinvestment in his SIPP and 
GIA. 
Mr D felt that SW hadnt completed each action within normal timescales. And that it hadnt 
provided him with the high level of service it had said it was committed to. He said that the 
time SW had taken to respond to his initial complaint was indicative of its failure to this 
commitment. As was the length of time SW had taken to complete the transactions.
Mr D asked SW to address the following transactions as he didnt understand why they had 
taken as long as they had:
For platform A investments:
- the delay in execution of the divestment between 4 and 11 July 2022 and the 
subsequent delay in re-investment to 20 July 2022.
For platform B investments:
- the delay in execution of the divestment to 8 August 2022 and the subsequent delay 
in re-investment to 15 August 2022.Mr D felt that the effect of not transacting the platform B trades until August, rather than in 
late July 2022 - which he felt couldve been achieved within the brief of not overlapping with 
platform A executions - was an opportunity loss of several thousand pounds. 
SW issued its final response to Mr D. It still felt that its offer of £250 compensation for the 
two errors it had identified, and for the delay in responding to his initial complaint, was fair.
SW acknowledged that Mr D felt the transactions had taken too long to complete. It said that 
the investment recommendations hed agreed to were complex, with many separate 
elements and transactions. And that because of this, it was important to process the 
transactions in the correct order. 
SW said that part of the advice had been to stagger the transactions so that Mr D never had 
too much money out of the market at any one time. And said that its report had confirmed 
that the trades on platform A would be actioned before those on platform B started. It also 
said that the dealing instruction had confirmed that the platform B transactions should be 
staggered. And that the instruction had specifically stated that the disinvestment for income 
and the Bed & ISA transactions should be completed before any fund switches were carried 
out. SW said this was standard practice to ensure that the correct amount was reinvested 
into the new funds. 
SW explained why it felt that the auto-investment hadnt impacted the GIA and SIPP 
investments. 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service, as he was unhappy with SWs final response. He 
wanted it to acknowledge that his trades hadnt been executed on a timely basis and that 
this had affected his portfolio value. He also didnt feel that the £250 SW had offered was 
sufficient. He felt that his portfolio had been adversely affected by several thousand pounds. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the 
transactions were executed in a timely fashion. And that the £250 SW had offered for the 
distress and inconvenience its errors had caused, and for the delay in responding to Mr Ds 
initial complaint, was fair. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He felt she hadnt focussed on the general tardiness 
and lack of professionalism with which SW had conducted the whole process. He didnt think 
she couldve fairly concluded that the process had been completed in a timely fashion. Mr D 
also still felt that the delayed response to his initial complaint showed that SW wasnt 
committed to ensuring its clients received the highest level of service.
Our investigator asked SW to comment on the points Mr D had made. It said these had 
mostly already been addressed in its final response letter. But repeated the points it had 
made. 
SW provided further details on some specific transactions that Mr D had queried the timing 
for, as follows:
Mr D said he didnt understand the delay in platform A in the execution of the divestment 
between 4 and 11 July 2022.
SW said that its Investment Operations team aimed to start transactions within three working 
days, but at times of high volumes of business, this could take longer. It said in this instance, 
it was started in five working days, which it didnt consider unreasonable.
Mr D said he also didnt understand the subsequent delay in re-investment in platform A to 20 July 2022.
SW said that the reinvestment on 20 July 2022 was seven working days after the 
disinvestment had been placed. It said that it could take up to 10 working days for a 
transaction to settle, so felt this was reasonable. 
Mr D also said that he didnt understand the delay in platform B in the execution of the 
divestment to 8 August 2022.
SW said it couldnt identify any disinvestments that took place on 8 August. It said the first 
platform B disinvestment was placed on 11 July 2022, with further disinvestments placed on 
28 July 2022, 10, 12 and 15 August 2022.
Mr D also said he didnt understand the subsequent delay in the platform B re-investment to 
15 August 2022. 
SW said that the platform B reinvestments started on 15 August 2022. It said it couldnt 
identify a delay here. It said that the reinvestments commenced as soon as the cash was 
available.
Mr D said he didnt recognise the earliest date quoted for the platform B disinvestments. He 
felt that there was significant delay after the end of the platform A restructuring and the start 
of platform B which wasnt explainable. He said that although hed agreed not to overlap he 
felt he should be entitled to believe that SW would proceed with common sense. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the transactions 
were executed in reasonable time. And that SWs offer of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the errors it identified and corrected was reasonable. 
I acknowledge that Mr D feels that the transactions shouldve been executed more quickly. 
And that he incurred an opportunity loss of several thousand pounds. But Ive seen no 
evidence to support this. 
I can see that Mr D feels very strongly about his complaint, so I know my decision will be 
disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it. 
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as SW has done  what I have 
to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, SW has acknowledged that it made two errors. Its corrected those errors and 
carried out a loss analysis to see if Mr D suffered a financial loss because of the errors. But 
found that in fact the errors led to a small gain for him. SW has also apologised for the time it 
took to consider Mr Ds initial complaint. And offered him £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience the errors, and the delayed response to his complaint, caused him. 
Mr D wants SW to acknowledge that his trades hadnt been executed on a timely basis. And 
doesnt consider that SWs loss assessment has fully considered that his portfolio had been 
adversely affected by several thousand pounds because of the delayed transaction process. I first considered if SW shouldve executed Mr Ds trades more quickly than it did. 
Did SW cause delays to the trades?
Mr D and SW agree that the initial instruction for the trades was signed on 1 July 2022. They 
also agree that the trades in platform A would be completed before those in platform B 
started.
The evidence shows that the dealing instruction which Mr D signed, indicating his agreement 
to it, showed that the transactions would be carried out in stages. This was to avoid having 
large sums of money outside of the market at any one time. 
Both Mr D and SW have provided timelines for the trades. Mr Ds timeline has been included 
in the background above. Ill cover SWs timeline below for completeness.
SW said that it submitted the task for the transactions to its Investment Operations team on 
4 July 2022, one working day after the instruction was completed. It said that on the same 
day it sent a request to platform A to make the Structured Product Mr D wanted available on 
the platform. And that the disinvestments were placed in platform A five working days later 
on 11 July 2022. It said disinvestment for income was also placed in platform B GIA. And 
that it sent a request to platform B for a Structured Product investment in the platform B 
SIPP on the same day.
SW said that the platform A disinvestments were completed on 15 July 2022. And that it 
placed the platform A reinvestments, including the Structured Product, on 20 July 2022. It 
said this was seven working days from the disinvestment date.
SW said that on 22 July 2022 the GIA disinvestment for income was completed and 
withdrawn from the account. And that on 27 July 2022, all of the platform A reinvestments  
apart from the Structured Product, settled.
SW said that on 28 July 2022 the disinvestment for bed & ISA was placed in the GIA. This 
was four working days after the GIA withdrawal.
SW said that on 29 July 2022 the Structured Product purchase completed in platform A. 
And that on 8 August 2022, £20,000 was transferred from the GIA to each ISA. This was 
seven working days from the disinvestment date.
SW said that on 10 August 2022, it queried the Structured Product purchase in the platform 
B SIPP, as information on the account wasnt clear. This was eight working days after the 
platform A switch had completed. And that on 12 August 2022 platform B confirmed that the 
Structured Product purchase had completed correctly. 
SW said that on 15 August 2022 it settled the incorrect ISA purchases, including correction 
of auto-invested funds. And on 18 August 2022 the GIA switch transactions were settled, 
with further investment being placed in the GIA to correct the under-investment on 23 August 
2022.
SW told this service that, having fully reviewed the timeline, each action took place within 
normal timescales. It said the transactions were linked to a complex piece of advice, and that 
it had, on several occasions, needed to wait for previous transactions to settle before further 
trades could be placed on an account. It said that the expected time for a transaction to 
settle is five working days, but that this did vary. SW said that the longest gap between transactions was eight working days between the 
platform A SIPP switch completing and work commencing on the platform B SIPP switch. 
But said that this was in line with the instruction not to overlap the transactions. It said there 
was no money out of the market in either account during this period, and work was ongoing 
on other parts of the advice. So it didnt consider the timescale to be unreasonable.
Clearly there were two errors during the process, as outlined above. These were quickly 
corrected. And a loss assessment has identified no loss on the two trades in question. Ive 
also seen no evidence that the errors caused knock-on issues that had a financial impact on 
Mr D.
I acknowledge that Mr D doesnt recognise all of the dates in SWs timeline. But Ive not 
seen any evidence to indicate that they arent correct. And SW told this service that some of 
the dates in its timeline vary slightly to those in Mr Ds timeline because the actual 
transaction date: occasionally differs from the date that it is processed by the product 
provider (as shown on the transaction history). For example, platform A confirmed that a 
strike date appears on the transaction history, rather than the date the trade was actually 
requested. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that SW acted reasonably in trying to complete all 
of Mr Ds required trades in line with his investment instructions and in reasonable time. Ive 
found no evidence that the trades werent exercised on a timely basis. So I cant reasonably 
say that SW caused any delays to the trades which caused Mr D a financial loss. 
I next considered if the £250 compensation SW offered Mr D was reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
Distress and inconvenience
SW made its offer of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its two errors 
caused Mr D, and for its delayed response to his initial complaint.  
SW apologised for its delay in responding to Mr Ds complaint. It said that his email hadnt 
been passed onto to the correct team at the time he sent it. I can see that this wouldve been 
very frustrating for Mr D.
SW also apologised for the two errors it had identified during the complaint review process. 
And explained that its loss assessment had identified that the errors hadnt caused Mr D a 
financial loss. 
I understand that Mr D wants SW to acknowledge that his trades werent executed on a 
timely basis and that this had affected his portfolio value. But Ive found no evidence that the 
trades werent executed when they shouldve been. 
Im pleased that SW identified and corrected the errors before Mr D was aware theyd taken 
place. And then apologised for making them. And, given SW carried out a loss assessment, 
Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps to minimise the impact of the errors on Mr D. 
I consider that it was reasonable for SW to make Mr D an offer of compensation because it 
had made two errors and because it didnt respond to his initial complaint in a timely manner. 
But Im satisfied that the £250 compensation SW has offered Mr D is reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I wont be asking it to take any further steps to put 
things right.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman