DRN-4221653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A said their application for a Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage with The Mortgage 
Works (UK) Plc included a survey. They relied on it in buying the property. They complain 
that when they asked for more lending, a second survey gave the property a nil valuation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought a BTL property in March 2021, with a mortgage provided by TMW. 
They said when they made that purchase, they relied on a survey report that theyd paid for 
as part of the application. They told us this report said the property didnt have any cause for 
concern.
Mr and Mrs A said they then decided to request a further advance on the property, and it 
was surveyed again, a little under two years later. At this point the survey report said that the 
structure of the rear extension, where the kitchen is, was inadequate The structure either 
needed to be upgraded or the kitchen moved back inside the main property. 
Mr and Mrs A said this hadnt changed from the time of the first survey, so this should have 
been raised the first time the property was surveyed. They said that because it hadnt, theyd 
bought a defective house. Mr and Mrs A said they also now knew that the chimney breast 
wasnt properly supported either, although this hadnt been mentioned on either of TMWs 
survey reports. So they said this should have shown up on the surveys too. 
TMW challenged the most recent valuation with its survey company, but they stood by their 
findings. And TMW said the difference between the two valuations happened because its 
guidance had changed between the times that the property was valued. 
Then when this case came to our service, TMW wrote to Mr and Mrs A and said it had now 
looked at the valuations itself, and the information it held on the property. It felt that because 
the kitchen was located in an extension with a non-standard roof, this represented a fire 
hazard. This issue wasnt mentioned on either of TMWs valuations. TMW offered to lend the 
money Mr and Mrs A wanted anyway, subject to a retention until the kitchen was moved 
back into the main building. And it offered to pay £200 in compensation. 
When Mr and Mrs A declined its offer, TMW then said it would have to refer this issue to its 
survey company, rather than deal with the complaint itself. I understand that this company 
has since replied, to say the changed valuation is a result of changes in the guidance it 
receives from TMW. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the valuation set out 
that it was prepared solely for TMWs purposes. It had been done only to help TMW decide 
how much to lend on the property. And as Mr and Mrs A took out the mortgage through a 
broker, that broker was responsible for explaining this to Mr and Mrs A. 
Our investigator said TMW does have to instruct a suitably qualified survey company, which 
it had done here. But TMW isnt then responsible for what the valuer does. She understood 
this had left Mr and Mrs A in a difficult position, but she didnt think that was TMWs fault. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They said theyve lost out, and only wanted to be put back into a 
fair position. Mr and Mrs A wanted their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it 
was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr and Mrs A say they relied on the first report they received, which they said didnt show 
any flaws in the property. They said this first report should have told them about both the 
problem with the structure of the kitchen extension (which was only mentioned on the 
second valuation) and a separate problem with the support of a chimney breast (which 
apparently hadnt shown up on either valuation).
I understand why Mr and Mrs A are concerned about both of these issues. But unfortunately, 
I dont think that TMW is responsible for Mr and Mrs A not having found out about these 
problems before they completed their purchase.
Mr and Mrs A have referred to having paid for a survey report, before buying this property. 
But I dont think that document claims to be a survey of their property. Although it does 
contain very brief observations about the property, I think its a valuation for mortgage 
purposes.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs A paid a valuation fee to TMW, as part of their first 
mortgage application. But unfortunately, that doesnt mean the valuation was done for them, 
or that the lender is responsible for the content of the valuation report. Our investigator has 
explained to Mr and Mrs A that the valuation the lender receives is solely for its purposes, 
and as long as the lender has instructed a properly qualified company (which it did here) 
then the lender is entitled to rely on the content of that report.
I think thats right. And I note that the first valuation report which was prepared for TMW, as 
part of Mr and Mrs As mortgage application, did contain a very clear and explicit warning 
about the scope of the report. That warning reads as follows  
Note: This report has been prepared solely for TMW purposes. It is not a structural 
report and is based upon a limited inspection. It may not reveal serious defects and 
may contain inaccuracies and omissions. It is unlikely to be adequate for purchasers 
purposes and should not be relied upon. You are strongly advised to obtain a fuller 
report on the property.
Mr and Mrs A say they relied on this report in making their purchase, and paying 25% of the 
purchase price as a deposit. Im sorry to have to tell them that I dont think it was reasonable 
for them to have done so, given that there is such a very clear warning on the face of the 
report itself about its potential limitations. 
I understand that its been very difficult for them, to find that the rear extension of their rental 
property will require further work, and that there are also concerns about the support of the chimney breast. But I dont think that TMW is responsible for the content of the first valuation 
report, or that its TMWs fault that Mr and Mrs A relied on this report in their purchase. And 
for those reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold TMW 
responsible for Mr and Mrs As decision to purchase this property. 
I understand that TMW has already paid the amount of £200 which it offered in its complaint 
response letter. For the reasons set out above, I dont think TMW has to do more than that 
now. I know that Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed, but I dont think their complaint should 
be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman