DRN-2648598
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined his full and final settlement offer to 
settle all of his accounts. Hes also unhappy that Barclays has continued to contact him 
about the accounts even though he asked it to communicate via his representative.
 
What happened
Mr M holds four accounts with Barclays. In or around 2013, Mr M experienced some 
financial difficulties and also provided details of a medical condition to Barclays. In response, 
it froze interest and set up a payment plan.
In October 2020 Mr M contacted Barclays and provided details of his current circumstances. 
He said that although hed maintained payments in the past, he wouldnt be able to do so 
going forwards. He put forward an offer of £7500 to settle all the accounts.
Barclays reviewed the offer but declined to accept it. Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays 
response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that whether to accept or decline and 
offer was a commercial decision for Barclays.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at how Barclays responded when Mr M made it aware of his financial difficulties. 
In such circumstances, I would expect Barclays to respond positively and sympathetically.
I appreciate that Mr M initially contacted Barclays in or around 2013. Because this is more 
than 6 years ago, Im unable to consider this aspect of Mr Ms complaint. However, I can 
look at how Barclays responded when Mr M contacted them in October 2020.
I can see that Mr M made an offer of £7500 to settle all his accounts, which was around 40% 
of what he owed. Barclays declined the offer, but at the same time it agreed to place the 
accounts on hold, suspend interest and fees and referred Mr M to a specialist team. It also 
signposted Mr M to organisations offering help and support. Barclays advised Mr M that 
although it was declining the partial settlement offer, it wasnt expecting any payments from 
him because his income and expenditure details showed that he couldnt afford to make 
payments.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays responded positively and 
sympathetically to Mr M. I understand that hes disappointed that the partial settlement offer 
he made was declined. However, Barclays isnt obliged to accept partial settlement offer, 
and the decision whether to accept or decline any offer is a decision for Barclays.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy that Barclays has continued to send him letters after he 
requested that all contact should be through his representative,. Barclays has explained that 
whilst Mr Ms representative has authority to discuss the accounts with them, any 
correspondence regarding the accounts has to be sent to the account holder (Mr M) to 
comply with legal requirements.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Barclays has acted unfairly. Im unable 
to require Barclays to accept the partial settlement offer and Im satisfied that it responded 
positively and sympathetically to Mr M when he told them about his circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman