DRN-3600041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has unfairly 
declined their request for a mortgage term extension. To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs D 
would like Halifax to grant the mortgage term extension.
Mr D has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Mrs D.
What happened
In August 2008, after taking advice from their own mortgage broker, Mr and Mrs D took out a 
mortgage with Halifax. They borrowed just under £296,000 on an interest-only basis over a 
term of 18 years ending in 2026, on an initial 3-year fixed interest rate. Halifax was told that 
the mortgage would be repaid at the end of the term by an ISA. At the end of the mortgage 
term Mr D would be 65 years of age.
Various interest rate product transfers have taken place since 2008, the last one being on 
1 May 2021, when £299,095 was arranged onto a fixed rate of 1.27% for the remainder of 
the mortgage term, at that time five years five months.
On 4 May 2021 Mr D raised a complaint that Halifax had declined to extend the mortgage 
term by five years, until he was 70. Mr D explained to Halifax that, at that point, the plan 
would be to sell the property and downsize. Mr D didnt want to sell the property at the end of 
the mortgage term in 2026 as he was still intending to be working at that time and didnt want 
to move.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. The bank explained that the request didnt meet its 
lending criteria for an interest-only mortgage where sale of the property was the intended 
repayment vehicle.
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at what had happened. Having done so, he was satisfied that Halifax was entitled to 
decline a request for a term extension. The investigator noted that Mr D had initially told 
Halifax he wanted the term extension until he was 70, but later said that he intended to work 
until he was 75, and wanted to extend the mortgage on an interest-only basis until he retired.
The investigator didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly or outside its lending criteria. 
However, given there was still around four years left before the end of the term, the 
investigator thought Mr and Mrs D had time to put plans in place to repay the balance in 
2026. If at that point they needed more time, they could ask Halifax, and the bank would 
need to give fair consideration to the request.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings and made further representations about his 
plans to continue working. He explained why it wouldnt be feasible to sell the property in 
2026 and he asked the investigator to ask Halifax to reconsider.
Despite this being outside out remit (we dont act for consumers), the investigator asked 
Halifax to reconsider. After referring the matter to its Stakeholders, Halifax declined the 
request. The bank explained that the original repayment vehicle was an ISA. Halifax also 
said that Mr and Mrs D didnt meet the criteria for a term extension on interest-only if their 
only repayment vehicle was a sale of the property.
Mr D didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He maintains 
Halifax has acted unfairly and that he and Mrs D are now mortgage prisoners. Mr D also 
insists that his complaint should be against Lloyds Banking Group, rather than Bank of 
Scotland, notwithstanding that the investigator has clarified the position on this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I am aware that a particular source of frustration for Mr D is the distinction that has 
been made between Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) and Lloyds Banking Group. It 
is not always easy for consumers to appreciate which business they are dealing with, but 
there is no confusion that the mortgage account is with Halifax, which is a trading entity of 
Bank of Scotland plc. However, Mr D is insistent that his complaint should be against Lloyds 
Banking Group, of which Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax forms part, along with 
several other separate and discrete businesses.
Lloyds Banking Group is a separate entity in its own right, with its own registration number 
with the Financial Conduct Authority. I appreciate Mr D might not understand the distinction 
between the parent company and the businesses which form part of the group, and I can 
see he has spent some time on presenting arguments as to why he thinks his complaint 
should be against Lloyds Banking Group rather than Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
However, the distinction between the businesses is a genuine one and, from this services 
point of view, a necessary one. Under our rules we can only consider a complaint against 
one business, and in the case at hand, that is Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Halifax was the provider of the mortgage at the heart of the complaint, not Lloyds Banking 
Group.
Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs D arent, as they claim, mortgage prisoners. The term 
mortgage prisoners has a specific meaning. These are borrowers who cannot switch to a 
new mortgage interest rate product or a new lender, either because they are with a closed-
book or unregulated lender, or because their personal circumstances prevent them from 
taking out a new mortgage at a better rate of interest with a new lender. As a result, those 
borrowers are generally left paying a Standard Variable Rate, rather than being able to 
switch to a better interest rate product. 
That is not the situation Mr and Mrs D are in. Halifax isnt a closed book lender and 
Mr and Mrs D have been able to switch their Halifax mortgage interest rate product several 
times over the course of their mortgage. They are also free (subject to meeting lending 
criteria) to take out another mortgage with a new lender, should they wish to do so.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr D says Halifax is treating him and Mrs D unfairly by 
refusing to extend the mortgage term. Ive looked at the various reasons Mr D has given for 
wanting the term extension. He intends to keep working and he and Mrs D will sell the 
property once he retires, relocating to a different area. Mr D says that it wouldnt be feasible 
to sell the property, pay off the mortgage and downsize in 2026 in the same area, and then 
move again once he retires. Im not persuaded by this argument. Ive noted on property portals that at todays date there 
are a number of properties in the same postcode area  character cottages, new-build 
detached properties and older family homes  that could be bought outright from the current 
equity in the mortgaged property. So selling in 2026 might not be what Mr and Mrs D would 
want to do, but it doesnt mean that it is something they couldnt do.
Following the financial crash in 2008, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) carried out a 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, 
in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment 
strategies for interest only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage 
mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new tests, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances. 
The circumstances where a lender can potentially set these criteria aside are when the 
mortgage was taken out before 26 April 2014, there hasnt been any further borrowing since 
that date, the requested change doesnt include any further borrowing (besides product fees) 
and the change being requested to the mortgage was in the customers best interests. 
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages or agree to lend. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the 
criteria for setting aside the more stringent tests are met  on grounds of affordability. 
A request for a term extension is a material change to the mortgage that is relevant to 
affordability. But the issue here wasnt around affordability of the monthly repayments; the 
issue was that the repayment strategy had changed, and so Halifax was entitled to ensure 
that this met its lending criteria.
From Halifaxs perspective, the bank lent to Mr and Mrs D on the basis theyd be repaying 
the mortgage in 2026 using their ISA. Mr and Mrs D havent explained why they no longer 
wish to use their ISA, or whether or not the ISA still exists. But Halifax acted in good faith in 
lending to Mr and Mrs D on that basis.
Halifax is entitled to set its own lending criteria. For an interest-only term extension with a 
sale of the property as the repayment vehicle, the criteria Halifax is allowed to take into 
consideration include an upper age limit of a maximum of 70 years, a minimum income 
requirement for joint borrowers of £150,000 per annum and minimum equity of £300,000 in 
the property. In addition, the maximum loan-to-value ratio (LTV) has to be 50% or less. 
In this regard, I note the LTV is just over 50%, so if house prices continue to rise, in the 
foreseeable future, the LTV might fall and the equity might exceed £300,000. But this doesnt 
affect the fairness of the banks decision because Mr and Mrs D did not meet the income 
criteria in any event. 
Even after the investigator had issued his opinion on the case, Mr D asked him to go back to 
Halifax for the bank to reconsider. As I said above, this isnt part of our role, because we 
dont represent the parties in a complaint. The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent 
and impartial. However, with a view to seeing if there was a possibility of mediating a 
settlement, the investigator asked Halifax to reconsider.The bank referred the matter to its Stakeholders, which I think was reasonable in all the 
circumstances. This would be a higher level review of the term extension request than at 
departmental or underwriter stage. After this review, the bank was unable to agree to the 
request. This is a decision I am satisfied Halifax is entitled to make, where its criteria are not 
met. 
In all the circumstances, I think Halifax acted fairly. The bank is entitled to decide the level of 
risk to which it is prepared to be exposed. For an interest-only mortgage where the bank is 
told that the original repayment vehicle (in this case an ISA) is no longer available and that 
sale of the property is the proposed repayment strategy, Halifax is entitled to have stringent 
requirements that the borrowers must meet. In this case, Mr and Mrs D werent able to meet 
those criteria. The bank considered the request at several internal levels but wasnt able to 
make an exception.
This means that Im not upholding the complaint. However, there is nothing to prevent 
Mr and Mrs D from asking Halifax if the bank will reconsider a term extension when the 
mortgage term is closer to its end.  Lending criteria can vary, as well as any regulatory 
requirements Halifax has to take into account in relation to lending into retirement. I cant say 
whether any future request is likely to be successful, but Halifax is required to give it fair 
consideration and provide reasons for its decision.
My final decision
I understand Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold 
this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman