DRN-2016248
The complaint
Miss D complains that Motorpoint Limited mis-sold her a financial agreement for a car.
What happened
In January 2017, Miss D visited a Motorpoint Limited retailer as she wanted to buy a car. 
She says that it was her intention to own the car at the end of the financial agreement.
Miss D spoke with the salesperson and agreed to take out a Personal Contract Plan (PCP) 
over a three-year term. Miss D was told that, at the end of the three years, the car would 
have a Guaranteed Minimum Future Value (GMFV), which would be the outstanding 
balance that she would be required to pay if she wanted to keep the car. 
Miss D says that the salesperson called the agreement a Boomerang PCP and explained 
to her that, at the end of the agreement, she could either hand the car back, pay off or re-
finance the outstanding balance (the GMFV), or part exchange it for another vehicle using 
any equity as a deposit. Miss D says she was told by the salesperson that she could swap 
the Boomerang PCP for a hire purchase agreement at the end of the PCPs term. 
Miss D also said that she was encouraged to pay a larger deposit so that she would have 
greater equity in the car should she decide to part exchange it for another vehicle at the end 
of the agreement. Miss D agreed to take out the finance agreement and paid a deposit of 
£2,500. Motorpoint Limited arranged the finance agreement with a bank.
When the three years were coming to an end, Miss D was asked what she wanted to do, 
and three options were outlined. These were to pay off the lump sum and keep the car, 
return the car or thirdly trade it in for another vehicle. Miss D contacted the bank directly and 
said she wanted to keep the car. The bank said she would need to pay the outstanding 
balance as a lump sum, but that there wasnt an option for the amount to be automatically 
transferred to a hire purchase agreement with the same bank. Miss D contacted Motorpoint 
who said that she could re-finance the outstanding balance, but she would need to apply for 
this herself with a third party.
Miss D complained to Motorpoint and said she had been misled by the salesperson when 
she had taken out the agreement. Miss D said she hadnt been told that she would need to 
sort out refinancing the car if she had wanted to keep it. She said this had left her stressed 
and upset over the potential of having to pay more, of struggling to find an agreement and 
possibly having to return that car when she had expected to be able to keep it. Miss D said 
she also found the information sheet, that she had been provided with when she entered into 
the PCP, misleading.
Motorpoint didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. It said that it offered two options for financing a 
car, either a hire purchase agreement or the boomerang PCP, and the salesperson would 
have explained how they worked and as wells as the three options which applied at the end 
of the boomerang PCP agreement. As no customer had the option to re-finance the 
outstanding balance directly with the lender at the end of the PCP this information wouldnt 
have been given by the salesperson.
Motorpoint also said it didnt accept the information sheet, that had been provided to Miss D, 
was misleading. It had set out the three options available at the end of the PCP which 
included choosing to re-finance the outstanding balance.  
Miss D was unhappy at the response she received from Motorpoint and complained to this 
service. Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said he 
didnt know what had been said at the time Miss D had agreed to take out the PCP, but the 
paperwork was clear that at the end of the agreement a lump sum fell due if Miss D wanted 
to keep the car. The agreement didnt say that the bank would re-finance the outstanding 
amount. 
He also said that he didnt think the information sheet had been misleading, as it was correct 
that the outstanding lump sum could be re-financed at the end of the agreement. Again, this 
sheet didnt say that the bank would automatically agree to any re-financing.
Miss D disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she had discussed what would 
happen at the end of the agreement with the salesperson and was told that it would change 
into a hire purchase agreement, with no changes to her monthly payments. She said she 
was assured that the boomerang PCP was entirely flexible.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss D feels strongly that she was mis-sold the PCP and that a statement 
should have been obtained from the salesperson concerned. Motorpoint says that, after 
three years, obtaining a statement from the salesperson wouldnt take the matter any further 
forward as it is very unlikely they would have any independent recall of the sale. It says that 
there is sales process that is set and which the salesperson would have followed.
I agree with Motorpoint that getting a statement from the salesperson after this length of time 
wouldnt be helpful. I would not expect them to be able to recall this particular sale from the 
many others they would have been involved in over that time. And where evidence is 
missing or contradictory, I have to decide what I think is the most likely thing to have 
happened.
I think from Miss Ds evidence that the options available at the end of the PCP agreement 
were discussed with the salesperson. And I think its clear that Miss D expected there to be 
an outstanding lump sum that would need to be paid when the PCP ended if she wanted to 
keep the car. She also knew she could hand the car back or trade it in for another vehicle. 
So, I think Miss D did have an understanding as to how the PCP worked. Miss D says the 
issue is that she was expecting Motorpoint, or the bank, to arrange the re-financing and that 
she wouldnt need to organise this herself with other lenders. Ive seen in the information 
sheet that was provided to Miss D that it says the outstanding balance can either be paid in 
full or re-financed. However, this sheet doesnt say that any refinancing will be handled 
directly by either Motorpoint or the bank.
I think the description given by the salesperson of the boomerang PCP being flexible is 
correct as, at the end, Miss D could do one of three things. She could hand the car back with 
nothing further to pay, trade it in on another vehicle and, if there was an equity on the car, 
use that as a deposit or choose to pay off the balance. So, I think its reasonable to say PCPs are more flexible than hire purchase agreements. Payments under a PCP are usually 
lower than those under a hire purchase agreement.
Miss D is upset that she found herself unexpectedly having to arrange new finance on the 
car, which meant that there was potential for her payments to increase, or that she wouldnt 
be able to find a suitable agreement. I appreciate this has caused her upset and stress but, 
looking at the evidence, I dont have enough to say this agreement was mis-sold to her.
This is because, although I dont know what was said at the time she entered into the 
agreement, it does appear that the way the agreement worked was explained, including that 
at the end of the term there was an option to re-finance the outstanding balance. I also think 
its more likely than not that re-financing by way of a hire purchase agreement at the end of 
the agreement was raised, as I think its likely Miss D would have been aware that she was 
unlikely to be able to pay the full amount that would be outstanding. However, I cant 
reasonably say that the salesperson informed her that the bank, or Motorpoint, would sort 
that out for her as this wasnt an option that was available to any customers. I think its more 
likely than not that Miss D has misunderstood what was said.
Miss D says that the information sheet is misleading, but I dont think it is. It says that the 
outstanding balance can be re-financed at the end of the agreement if the customer wishes 
to keep the car. However, it doesnt set out any details as to how the re-finance would be 
arranged, but I dont think thats unreasonable as there would be a number of options that 
could be taken up and I dont think it would be reasonable to expect them all to be detailed.
Miss D says she was encouraged by the salesperson to pay a bigger deposit so that the car 
would have more equity if she decided to trade it in at the end of the agreement. Again, I 
dont know what was said to Miss D by the salesperson as a bigger deposit would have 
lowered the monthly repayments, so I cant say this advice would have necessarily been 
financially detrimental to her. And, as she says she had wanted to keep the car, I dont think 
the issue of potentially having a better deposit for another car would have been a factor for 
Miss D. She signed the agreement, so I think its fair to say she was happy with the monthly 
payments and the guaranteed minimum value set for the car at the end of the three years.
So, although I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss D, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman