DRN-2947164
The complaint
 Mr A complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). His complaint relates to the application 
of a proportional settlement of a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his 
property from an escape of water.
 
This decision focuses specifically on the way in which a proportional settlement was applied 
to Mr As claim, which is the main element of Mr As complaint.
References to AXA include its agents who are involved with assessing claims.
What happened
  In April 2020 Mr A made a claim under his home insurance policy for an escape of water at 
his property. As part of their assessment of his claim AXA made a background check on his 
insurance history to verify the details that he provided when he took out the policy in May 
2019. This check revealed a claim Mr A had made for damage to a mobile phone in 
December 2017, when he had a policy with a different insurer. Mr A states that he did not 
proceed with the claim and was told by his insurer at the time that the claim would not 
appear on his claims history (which he believes he was told mistakenly). Based on what he 
was told, he didnt include details of the claim when he took out his policy with AXA. 
When AXA became aware of the previous claim, in May 2020 it applied a proportional 
settlement to his policy to reflect the previous claim, based on its assessment that his 
omission of the previous claim when taking out his policy was careless. This settlement was 
set at 62%, which meant that AXA would only settle 62% of the value of his new claim.
While Mr A accepted that AXA had the right, under the terms and conditions of the policy, to 
apply some level of proportional settlement, he was unhappy at the level at which it had 
been set. In support of his view he cited the low value of the previous claim (£300), together 
with it being related to the contents element of his previous policy, not buildings. Also that it 
was a careless omission, rather than deliberate or reckless. Being unhappy at the level of 
proportional settlement, Mr A complained to AXA in May 2020.
AXA considered Mr As complaint and responded with a Final Response Letter at the end of 
May 2020, in which it rejected Mr As complaint and upheld its decision to apply a 
proportional settlement at 62%. AXA subsequently told Mr A that had it been aware of the 
previous claim when he took out the policy, the premium would have been £801 rather than 
£496 (that is, the actual premium of £496 was 62% of the £801 that the premium would have 
been. AXA also refused to accept Mr As offer of paying the difference in premium in lieu of 
the proportional settlement.
Mr A was unhappy at the outcome of his complaint and complained to this service in 
November 2020. The main issue of the complaint was that it was unfair to apply such a high 
proportional settlement to his claim under his AXA policy, and that this meant him receiving 
some £630 less than he otherwise would have received (taking account of the policy 
excess). He wanted to know on what basis AXA had set what he considered to be a 
punitively high proportional settlement in light of the factors he had set out.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that AXA had dealt with Mr As 
complaint fairly and did not need to take any action. He noted that, when applying for his 
policy with AXA, Mr A had been asked clearly to declare previous claims (including where a 
claim was considered but not followed through). The investigator also concluded that AXA 
had acted fairly in classifying Mr As omission of the previous claim as careless, and that it 
was therefore entitled to apply a proportional settlement to Mr As claim. The investigator 
also concluded that AXA had provided sufficient information to support the calculation of the 
62% figure.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In asking for a review Mr A raised specific concerns about why he was not 
provided with more detailed information when taking out his policy on the level of 
proportional settlement that might be applied to a subsequent claim. He also requested that 
detailed underwriting information behind the proportional settlement figure be provided to 
him, as well as questioning why such information was also not provided to consumers at the 
time that they took out insurance policies, so that they could make more informed choices 
about policies.
In my findings I disagreed with the investigators conclusion that AXA had provided sufficient 
information to support the calculation of the proportional settlement figure of 62%. I 
challenged AXA on the information they provided and in responding AXA identified an error 
in the calculation of the proportional settlement figure applied to Mr As claim. Instead of a 
revised premium of £801, the correct figure should have been £766. This meant that Mr As 
original premium of £496 was 65% of the revised premium (rather than 62%). AXA said that 
it would apply this revised figure to Mr As claim, meaning that he would receive a higher 
proportion of his claim. I reviewed the calculation of the revised figure and was satisfied that 
AXA acted in accordance with its own underwriting guidelines. I concluded that AXA should 
apply the revised proportional settlement figure to Mr As claim.
 
I also considered the specific points raised by Mr A when requesting a review of his 
complaint by an ombudsman. In particular, the question of why more information on the level 
of potential proportional settlements isnt provided to consumers when they take out policies, 
as well as the question of provision of detailed underwriting information to consumers when 
taking out policies.
 
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether AXA has acted fairly towards Mr A.
The main element of Mr As complaint is that AXA acted unfairly in applying what he 
considers to be a punitive level of proportional settlement to his claim, and that it has not 
justified the application of such a level. He was also concerned at its application to a 
buildings claim when the previous claim he omitted to disclose was in respect of contents.
 
Looking at the main element of complaint, Ive considered how AXA have treated Mr As 
omission of his previous claim when he took out his policy with AXA. Ive first considered 
what Mr A told AXA when he took out his policy. Ive noted that Mr A took out his policy 
online, and the answers given to the questions asked are included (so that policyholders can check them for accuracy and completeness) in the Statement of Fact part of his policy 
schedule in May 2019. Under the section on claims or loss information it records the 
question (with my emphasis):
Have youhad any claims or losses in the last 5 years (including whether you 
considered making a claim but did not follow this through)?
The answer to this question is None declared. I think the question is clear, it refers to 
claims and losses, and that Mr As previous claim in December 2017 (even though he 
decided not to pursue it) should have been declared. While Mr A has said that he was told 
by a previous insurer that he didnt need to disclose the claim, as he didnt pursue it, I dont 
think that mitigates the fact that he gave an incomplete answer to a clear question from AXA. 
So, Ive concluded that Mr A didnt take reasonable care when answering that question.
Ive also considered the implication of Mr A not taking reasonable care when answering the 
question. The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies if the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on different terms 
or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. Ive looked at the evidence 
provided by AXA and Im satisfied that had Mr A disclosed the previous claim when taking 
out his policy, AXA would have charged him a higher premium. So, Ive concluded that the 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Having concluded that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one, Ive considered the 
remedies available to the insurer under CIDRA. This depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. I can see that AXA has treated the 
misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. In his complaint to this 
service Mr A stated that he put [the claim] entirely out of mind and didnt think to declare it 
when taking out the policy [with AXA]. So, I agree that his omission was careless and not 
deliberate or reckless.
Where a misrepresentation is careless, then CIDRA does provide for an insurer to settle 
claims on a proportional basis, which is what AXA has done. Ive also noted that the 
Statement of Fact document provided by AXA to Mr A includes the following reference (my 
emphasis):
The Statement of Fact is a detailed list of the information you provided when 
applying for yourpolicy we ask specific questions and work out the price based 
on your answers.
Please make sure the information is true and factually accurate as claims could be 
reduced or rejected if it isnt.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded that AXA was entitled to apply a proportional 
settlement to Mr As claim based on a qualifying, careless misrepresentation. 
Having concluded that AXA was entitled to apply a proportional settlement, Ive gone on to 
consider the evidence about the level at which it was set  which is Mr As main element of 
complaint.As a general principle, its understandable that insurers will place significant weight on 
claims history when assessing the level of risk in offering insurance. And that the level of 
assessed risk will be a key factor in the pricing of that risk  that is, the level of premium 
charged for the policy. 
Ive looked at the information provided by AXA to support its calculation of the premium they 
would have charged Mr A when he took out his policy, had it been aware of the previous 
claim in December 2017. I want to reassure Mr A that while this information is, by its nature, 
commercially sensitive, I have looked at it carefully. This includes looking at a detailed 
breakdown of how Mr As premium was calculated, both with and without the previous claim.
 
I also challenged AXA on the information they provided and asked specific questions. In 
responding, AXA identified an error in the calculation of the proportional settlement that it 
originally applied to Mr As claim. Instead of a revised premium of £801, the correct figure 
should have been £766. This meant that Mr As original premium of £496 was 65% of the 
revised premium (rather than 62%). AXA has said that it will apply this revised proportional 
settlement figure to Mr As claim, meaning that he would receive a higher proportion of his 
claim.
Having reviewed the calculation of the proportional settlement and noting the error identified 
by AXA, Im satisfied that AXA have acted in accordance with its own underwriting 
guidelines. Ive concluded that AXA should apply the revised proportional settlement figure 
to Mr As claim.
 
Ive also noted that while Mr As previous claim was in respect of contents, not buildings, Mr 
As policy was a combined one covering contents and buildings. AXA have said that it 
manages such policies as a whole, and therefore wouldnt calculate proportional settlements 
separately for each element. AXA has also said that when considering the impact of an 
omitted claim, the more significant impact is from the fact of an omitted claim  rather than 
the value of the omitted claim. Also that an omitted claim will affect the risk profile across a 
policy as a whole, rather than just the risk profile of the specific type of claim. I dont think 
this is an unfair or unreasonable approach to take.
Ive also considered the specific points raised by Mr A when requesting a review of his 
complaint by an ombudsman.
On the question of why more information on the level of potential proportional settlements 
isnt provided to consumers when they take out policies, this is ultimately a matter of the 
regulatory requirements under which insurers operate and not one for this service. However, 
as noted above, it is made clear in the information provided by insurers that claims can be 
reduced (or rejected) if information provided isnt true or accurate. And the level of any such 
reduction will depend on the nature and significance of the inaccuracy or omission. This 
variability would make provision of exact figures (proportions) inherently difficult (and 
potentially misleading).
On the question of provision of detailed underwriting information, as far as information to 
consumers when taking out policies this is again an issue for the regulatory requirements 
that apply to insurers. As far as the specific information relevant to Mr As complaint, then 
this service has to respect that certain information used by insurers in the operation of their 
business, including the pricing of policies and the assessment of claims (including the 
application of proportional settlements) is commercially sensitive. As a service we operate 
on the basis of respecting those sensitivities, while being able to access that information to 
enable us to consider complaints objectively and fairly.
 
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. My provisional decision is that I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Apply the revised proportional settlement figure of 65% to Mr As claim.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
 
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date requested.
Mr A responded to say that he remained dissatisfied on a number of points.
Mr As first point was that he took strong exception to the comment in my provisional 
decision:
On the question of why more information on the level of potential proportional 
settlements isnt provided to consumers when they take out policies, this is ultimately 
a matter of the regulatory requirements under which insurers operate and not one for 
this service.
Mr A went on to state that in his view it is a fundamental founding principle of the FOS that it 
is absolutely the right and responsibility of an Ombudsman to consider and take account of 
any and all factors in order to ensure that any decision they render is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. Mr A added that in suggesting that there are factors not in my purview 
to consider (which Mr A considered highly relevant to his case) I had taken an unreasonably 
narrow view of my remit.
Secondly, Mr A said that he did not accept that providing more detailed underwriting 
information would be misleading to consumers, compared to the current position. Mr A also 
noted that in coming to my provisional decision I sought assistance from AXA (to understand 
the underwriting information) and in his view consumers should have the same opportunity.
Thirdly, Mr A said that insurers should do more to explain proportional settlements to 
consumers at the point of sale (of policies). For example, through illustrative examples. And 
that insurers should state on policy sale information that more detailed information was 
available on request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered carefully the response from Mr A. On his first point, I dont agree that in 
considering his complaint I took an unreasonably narrow view of my remit. As I stated, my 
role is to consider whether AXA acted fairly towards Mr A. In doing so I looked in detail at the 
way that AXA had applied a proportional settlement in the circumstances where  as Mr A 
acknowledged  he didnt tell AXA about his previous claim. Having concluded that it was 
fair to apply a proportional settlement, I also looked in detail at the calculation of the figure 
(Mr As main element of complaint). That led to AXA identifying an error in its original 
calculation. Again, I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As case. 
While Mr A raised broader questions about what insurers provide to consumers on proportional settlements and underwriting information (which I will come on to) they dont 
change my conclusions on whether AXA acted fairly towards Mr A in the specific 
circumstances of his case.
On Mr As second and third points, I acknowledge Mr As views about the level of information 
that insurers should provide to consumers. But it doesnt change what I said about those 
issues not being ones that fall within the remit of this service and that they are questions 
about the regulatory requirements placed on insurers. The Financial Conduct Authority is the 
regulator for the financial services sector.
Specifically, on the second point, it was important that I looked at the detailed underwriting 
information to support AXAs decision to apply a proportional settlement so that I could come 
to an informed and objective conclusion on whether it acted fairly. So, I havent changed my 
view on this point.
On the third point, information on proportional settlements, again it isnt part of this services 
remit to specify what insurers should or shouldnt provide. But consumers can ask questions 
of insurers (or brokers if taking out policies through that route) about any of the terms and 
conditions of a policy where they were unsure of their meaning or wanted further information. 
In my view this would enable consumers to ask specific questions relevant to their individual 
circumstances. Again, I havent changed my view on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. My final decision is that I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Apply the revised proportional settlement figure of 65% to Mr As claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman