DRN-4001644
The complaint
Mr L complains that Retail Money Market Ltd (RateSetter) has unfairly sold his investments 
to a third party (TP) and a failed to return the interest hed sacrificed prior to the sale. 
What happened
RateSetter is a peer-to-peer crowdfunding platform which was acquired by TP in September 
2020. However, for ease, I shall refer to both parties separately throughout this decision.
RateSetter provided several types of investment accounts in which investors could lend 
money to third party individuals and/or businesses in return for interest. While each of these 
accounts had a set Going Rate - a market interest rate determined by RateSetter - 
investors could also decide to set their own target interest rates. The actual interest earned 
was based upon the loan contracts contained within an investors account.
RateSetter operated a contingency fund called the Provision Fund. The Provision Fund 
was used to automatically reimburse investors their outstanding capital and interest in the 
event this wasnt paid by a borrower. This in effect mutualised risk for all investors by 
diversifying their exposure across the entire loan portfolio. Although payments from the 
Provision Fund werent guaranteed, payments would be made provided there were sufficient 
funds available in it.
The adequacy of the Provision Fund was expressed by the Interest Coverage Ratio - 
calculated by dividing the size of the Provision Fund by the Expected Future Losses (the 
total amount of missed and unrecovered borrower repayments expected over the lifetime of 
active loans). RateSetter also published a Capital Coverage Ratio - calculated by adding 
the size of the Provision Fund and all the future interest from active loans and then dividing 
by the Expected Future Losses.
Historically, the Provision Fund was funded through borrowers as part of their loan fees and 
not by investors. But RateSetter says that, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, it 
saw a decrease in new lending and in turn, a decrease in borrower fees going into the 
Provision Fund. RateSetter has told us that in April 2020 the Interest Coverage Ratio had 
dropped below 74% and in May 2020, in response to this, it introduced a Stabilisation 
Period  a 50% reduction to the interest rate investors received on their investments. 
RateSetter says that was introduced to replenish the Provision Fund. It also says the Capital 
Coverage Ratio was around 154% at the time and so a capital rate reduction wasnt
necessary. RateSetter says this was all implemented in line with the terms of the investment.
TP acquired RateSetter in September 2020, but the entire loan portfolio remained with
RateSetter. RateSetter has explained that the Interest Coverage Ratio had returned above
100% by December 2020 and the Stabilisation Period ended in January 2021. In February
2021 RateSetter announced that TP was acquiring the entire loan portfolio which then
completed in April 2021. As a result, investors received their capital back, plus any interest
due.
Mr L complained to RateSetter in February 2021 as he felt it was unfair for TP to purchase 
his loans and to acquire the entire Provision Fund considering he and other investors had 
partly financed it through halving their interest payments during the Stabilisation Period. He 
felt hed missed out on this interest as well as future expected interest. 
RateSetter considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
Since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, it had focused on strengthening the Provision 
Fund and protecting all investors equally.
The interest rate reduction introduced in May 2020 was a necessary part of ensuring 
that all investors were fully protected  and a necessary step towards the outcome of 
investors getting their money back in full in April 2021.
Had it not increased its Provision Fund, investor capital would have been at risk.
The interest rate reduction naturally ended when the Interest Coverage Ratio 
returned to 100% and investors were fully protected.
There is no surplus in the Provision Fund and no surplus is expected in the future.
The Provision Fund operated in line with its Investor Terms and it was able to close 
investors accounts after the portfolio purchase under these Investor Terms.
The loan portfolio purchase meant that investors received their money back in full 
despite the economic uncertainty.
Mr L remained unhappy with RateSetters response and so he referred his complaint to this 
Service for an independent review.
An investigator at this Service looked into Mr Ls concerns and originally upheld the
complaint but later revised her view based upon new information provided by RateSetter. In
summary, she said:
She was satisfied that RateSetters Investor Terms gave it a broad discretion to 
introduce the Stabilisation Period.
She was persuaded that RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period 
was fair, and consistent with maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate above 100% to 
ensure continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio.
She also commented on RateSetters decision to close Mr Ls account following the 
sale of the entire loan portfolio to TP. She felt RateSetter had the power to do so 
under the Investor Terms and she felt that, by receiving a return of his capital and 
interest accrued up to that point, Mr L had received what he was entitled to.
RateSetter had accepted that it delayed providing all available evidence for the 
complaint and had it not done so, she wouldnt have reached the same outcome as 
she did in her initial opinion. She said RateSetter had offered £250 in recognition for 
the unnecessary delay caused and any distress and inconvenience caused by this, 
which she felt was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
RateSetter accepted the investigators findings but Mr L didnt. In summary, he said:
RateSetter knowingly reduced the interest payable to investors during the 
Stabilisation Period in the full knowledge that any benefit of improving the Interest 
Coverage Ratio back to 100% would be to TP and not to the investors who took the 
interest rate cut. 
This contravenes section the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles that a 
firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers, and treat them fairly.
He didnt agree that the Investor Terms should be individually applied to the situation 
prevailing during a pending change of ownership.
He also remained of the opinion that the forced purchase of his loans was unfair.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered RateSetters comments and the evidence provided, Im now persuaded
the decision to implement the Stabilisation Period was fair and in line with the Investor
Terms. Ill explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, Ive taken into account
the relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms, such as RateSetter, are required to
follow. These are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles
for Business (PRIN) are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under
the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G) The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R.
The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
RateSetter was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Fairness of the implementation of the Stabilisation Period
In Mr Ls initial submissions to this service, he explained that he accepted, in principle, why 
RateSetter decided to implement the Stabilisation Period. However, Mr L has raised 
concerns regarding the implementation of the Stabilisation Period in light of the entire loan 
portfolio sale to TP. Therefore, I will comment on the fairness of RateSetters decision to 
implement the Stabilisation Period.
I understand RateSetter has relied upon the following term in its Investor Terms to introduce
the Stabilisation Period:
19.1. If at any time, RateSetter reasonably believes the Provision Fund does not
have sufficient funds (including expected future inflows) to cover current or expected
borrower defaults, RateSetter may implement a Stabilisation Period.
While I think the term gave RateSetter a broad discretion to introduce the Stabilisation
Period, I must also consider whether in doing so RateSetter treated Mr L fairly and acted
with his best interests in mind.
RateSetter has explained that that prior to April 2020, the Interest Coverage Ratio was and 
had only ever been above 100% and that the objective  as disclosed to investors  was to 
maintain it to this level. The Provision Fund Policy on RateSetters website explained:
Future economic uncertainty is currently not factored into the Expected Future Loss
calculation but this is taken into account by managing the Interest Coverage Ratio to
a figure greater than 100%.
Its also clear that the Provision Fund was a vital mechanism in ensuring mutualisation of riskacross the loan portfolio. And if this was not sufficiently maintained, investors would likely be
exposed to risk beyond that which theyd accepted when agreeing to invest on a platform
that mutualised risk across the whole loan portfolio. The Provision Fund policy explained:
The Provision Fund exists to protect RateSetter investors. It protects all investors
equally and so has the effect of mutualising the risk for all investors by diversifying
their exposure across the whole loan portfolio. This means that it is the performance
of the whole loan portfolio that matters for RateSetter investors.
RateSetter has also explained that expected future losses were estimated each month-end
by RateSetter's Executive Credit Committee, based on historic losses in the portfolio as well
as independent macroeconomic forecasts produced by Oxford Economics. And that the
impact of Covid-19 in March 2020 caused a sharp spike in expected future losses which,
when tested at month end April 2020, caused the Interest Coverage Ratio to drop to 74%. It
was this level of drop in the Interest Coverage Ratio which RateSetter says meant it was
necessary to implement the Stabilisation Period  ensuring investors were protected equally
and that their risk was fully mutualised.
Understandably, there was a lot of uncertainty during the Covid-19 pandemic, and I think it
would be unfair to scrutinise a firms decision taken during this time where its clear it has
taken precautionary steps having relied upon independent forecasts. Its also apparent from
the information provided that RateSetter had lengthy discussions regarding what was the
best action to take in these circumstances. So Im satisfied RateSetter took reasonable steps
to take account of independent views and there was a reasonable basis to its assessments
of the coverage level.
I understand Mr L has concerns that RateSetter may have had knowledge of a potential sale 
to TP prior to implementing the Stabilisation Period, however, Ive not seen any evidence to 
support this. RateSetter has demonstrated that its decision to implement the
Stabilisation Period was made prior to discussions about the potential platform and loan
portfolio purchase. RateSetter has explained that the first communication it had with TP in
relation to a possible sale  which was a communication from TP to RateSetter  was on 10
May 2020, a month or so after the decision to implement the Stabilisation Period was taken
and nearly a week after it took effect. 
So, on balance, Im persuaded RateSetters decision to implement the Stabilisation Period
was fair, as it was consistent with the objective of maintaining the Interest Coverage Rate
above 100% - ensuring continued mutualisation of risk across the loan portfolio - and
allowing investors to continue to benefit from protection whilst still receiving interest (albeit
less than expected) during a period of economic uncertainty. Im also are satisfied the
Provision Fund shortfall estimates were reasonably assessed, as RateSetter considered
relevant factors from independent sources. Its also important to consider these decisions
were made in unprecedented circumstances and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
consider these with the benefit of hindsight.
The sale of the loan portfolio to TP and the price received 
I understand Mr L believes it was unfair for RateSetter to sell his loans to TP and, as a 
result, hes lost out on the expected interest he wouldve received had the loans not been 
sold. Hes also unhappy that he will no longer have any benefit from the Provision Fund 
which he contributed to through halving his interest during the Stabilisation Period.
Ive thought very carefully about whether RateSetter had the power to sell Mr Ls loans under 
the Investor Terms and whether hes been treated fairly in doing so. Ive also considered 
whether Mr L ought to have received more than his capital and any accrued interest  including whether he should have received any funds from the Provision Fund following the 
sale to TP. 
The Investor Terms explained that:
By agreeing to these Terms, youre appointing RateSetter to act as your agent in all
matters relating to the origination, negotiation, administration and management of
your loans. This includes:
[]
negotiating and executing on your behalf any agreements relating to your loans;
[]
entering into any transfer arrangements on your behalf in order to transfer the benefit
of any loans (or part thereof) to the Provision Fund, another RateSetter investor,
RateSetter itself or a third party; and
anything else RateSetter reasonably considers necessary to manage your loans,
including terminating those loans.
Therefore, RateSetter had the power to make the sale on Mr Ls behalf and transfer the
arrangements  including the Provision Fund  to TP. So the sale and transfer was a
legitimate exercise of the rights given to RateSetter by Mr L when he invested.
It was also able to close Mr Ls account with two months notice under the Investor Terms:
"16.1 We can end our agreement with you, close or suspend your RateSetter
account and stop providing any services by giving you at least two months' notice."
Ive also considered how RateSetter explained how the Provision Fund would operate, the
circumstances in which Mr L has a call on it and what he was entitled to receive on
withdrawing his investment. I understand Mr L says the Investor Terms shouldnt be applied 
pending the change of ownership. However, I dont agree as Ive not seen anything to 
support that the Investor Terms wouldnt apply in such circumstances. I also dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to depart from the Investor Terms considering these were still 
valid and the actions RateSetter took were during a time when Mr L still had a customer 
relationship with RateSetter. 
Turning to the Provision Fund specifically, the Provision Fund Policy provides clarity as to 
how the fund would operate. This explains:
If a borrower misses a repayment, the Provision Fund automatically reimburses the
outstanding capital and interest to the investor.
[]
These assets are ring-fenced from the other assets of RateSetter. The Provision
Funds assets can be used only to reimburse RateSetter investors and to cover the
operational costs of the Provision Fund
[]
If the Provision Fund accumulates a surplus relative to losses, this surplus ultimately
belongs to RateSetter.
From this, its clear from this that the Provision Fund is a separate, ring-fenced, sum of
money on which Mr L would only have a call to it in the event of borrower default. It would
appear that investors had no right to a return from the Provision fund in any other
circumstances. This was also explained to Mr L in the Investor Terms:
10. The Provision Fund
10.1 To provide protection to RateSetter investors, RateSetter sets aside funds as aprovision against borrower defaults for the benefit of all RateSetter investors (the
Provision Fund).
[]
10.3 If a payment becomes due under the terms of any of your loans and is not paid 
by the borrower, the Provision Fund will automatically make payment to you on the
borrowers behalf, provided it has the funds to do so.
Theres also nothing in the Investor Terms which suggested investors had a call on the fund
if, at the point of withdrawal from the investment, it was estimated to be more than was
required to provide protection. So Im persuaded Mr L cannot have invested with that
expectation. Rather, the Investor Terms explained that in the event of withdrawing from the
investment, an investor would only ever receive their capital and the interest which had
accrued. Ive seen nothing in the terms which suggests the amount paid to those
withdrawing from the investment should be adjusted by reference to the level of protection
afforded by the Provision Fund. So as Mr L was essentially withdrawing from his
investment, I dont think the fact that he was withdrawing by virtue of the loan portfolio sale
changed anything contractually and that by him getting a return of capital and interest
accrued meant he received what he was entitled to as per the terms of the investment.
Having considered all of the above, Im satisfied Mr L was only entitled to money from the
fund in the event of a default and, on withdrawing, was only entitled to a return of capital and
accrued interest. Therefore, Mr L received what he was entitled to under the terms when
RateSetter sold the loan portfolio to TP. Im also satisfied that the Provision Fund Policy
made it clear the Provision Fund was intended to protect investors and so once Mr L
withdrew as an investor Im satisfied he no longer had a right to it. 
Determining what Mr L was entitled to under the terms of the investment is the starting
point when scrutinising the price he received for his loans. However, Ive also considered
whether its fair and reasonable to say Mr L should have received more than he was
entitled to as per the terms of the investment, given the position with the Provision Fund at
the time of the sale.
At the point in which Mr L withdrew from his investment by way of the loan portfolio sale,
he was no longer exposed to any risk. This risk was transferred to TP and so I dont think it
would be fair for him to benefit from any protection the Provision Fund provided. The
Provision Fund is part of the package which TP receives when it purchased the loan portfolio
and aims to protect the current investor (TP) against default. 
The Provision Fund may be bigger than it would have been, had the interest rate reduction
not been applied during the Stabilisation Period, but Im not persuaded that meant Mr L
should have been paid something in addition to what he was contractually obliged to
receive up until the point of exiting from the investment. Rather, Im persuaded that the
period of reduced interest, which effectively reflected the increased default risk during a
period of economic uncertainty, was simply part of the overall risk of the proposition which is
rightly reflected in the returns paid. I say this as there was always a risk that borrower fees
would not be adequate to fund the level of protection needed, meaning either defaults would
hit investors due to inadequate cover or returns would be reduced in order to ensure
adequate cover. This was all clearly explained to Mr L in the Investor Terms and Im
persuaded he invested on the basis that he was aware his interest may be reduced. As
such, receiving his capital back and some interest seems to be a fair reflection of how the
investment has performed during the Covid-19 pandemic and up until the point in which the
loan portfolio was sold.
Id also consider that any additional payment made to Mr L, to reflect the value of the
Provision Fund at the point of the loan portfolio being sold, would be effectively putting him ina position is if the Covid-19 pandemic hadnt happened. As such, I dont think it would be fair
to award redress for reduced returns arising from inherent risks in the investment during this
period.
I understand Mr L doesnt think TP should benefit from the protection the Provision Fund
provides beyond that which investors contributed towards during the Stabilisation Period.
Whilst estimations at the point of the loan portfolio sale suggested that the Provision Fund
offered more than needed for capital protection, I dont think this means all or part of the
interest investors sacrificed during the Stabilisation Period ought fairly be refunded. As Ive
explained, the Interest Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against capital and future interest
losses (i.e. all losses) whereas the Capital Coverage Ratio is the level of cover against
capital losses only (i.e. it accounts for the future interest payable when considering the
degree of coverage). I think its difficult, against that background, to say it was fair for TP to
pay more than par value when the loan portfolio being purchased was estimated to have an
Interest Coverage Ratio of around 100%. I think a more reasonable interpretation is that the
loan portfolio was adequately insured, and so paying par value is a fair and reasonable
reflection of that. I say this as, if the Provision Fund offered less protection, the value of loan
portfolio would be arguably worth less, as there would be no buffer to protect TP from future
economic changes which increase the risk of default.
RateSetter says the offer of par value for investors loans and accrued interest was fair
given that it was reasonable to expect TP to receive the same level of interest on the
portfolio that the current owners (i.e. the old investors) were earning. I think this is a valid
point considering that the risk TP has taken on in purchasing the loan portfolio hasnt
changed and so it follows that the reward for doing so should remain the same as what
investors were receiving.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr L may have wanted to continue to invest on the
Platform and he feels hes missed out on the expected interest from his loans, as Ive 
explained, RateSetter had the power to sell his loans to TP and once it did so he was no 
longer entitled to any future expected interest. Ive also considered that the loan portfolio 
purchase did result in Mr L getting liquidity of capital and interest to cover a two-month notice 
period, in a timely and orderly way during a period of economic uncertainty. So Im 
persuaded the price Mr L received was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
RateSetters delay in providing a full response
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr L by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint. Whilst I've not found a failing in
terms of introducing the stabilisation period, the sale to TP or the delay in withdrawing, I
think this offer fairly reflects the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this
information at the earliest opportunity.
Putting things right
RateSetter has made an offer of £250 to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr L by its
delay in providing all available evidence for the complaint and I think this offer fairly reflects
the distress or inconvenience caused to him by not providing this information at the earliest
opportunity.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Retail Money Market Ltd to pay 
Mr L £250 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman