DRN-3672400
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to treat him fairly when it sold 
him an annuity in 2020.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr W held pension savings with Aviva. Those pension savings benefitted from a 
guaranteed annuity rate. In February 2020 he got in touch with Aviva to discuss using 
his pension savings to purchase an annuity.
Aviva then sent some details of the options available to Mr W by letter. It set out the 
various choices that he could make when taking an annuity, and asked him to select 
those most suited to his needs. It advised Mr W of the importance of his decision and 
suggested that he might want to take some independent financial advice. Mr W 
asked Aviva to provide him with some quotations for an annuity based on a single 
life, with payments being made monthly in arrears with no guarantee period.
Aviva provided Mr W with two quotations on that basis, dependent on whether or not 
he wanted to take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known 
as tax free cash). Mr W returned the paperwork to Aviva selecting the option without 
a PCLS. His annuity was put into payment in April 2020.
Around six months later Mr W complained to Aviva about the annuity rate that had 
been used to calculate his pension benefits. He said that the rate was less than the 
guaranteed rate applicable to his pension policy. And he said that if hed instead 
been offered an annuity based on annual income payments, he would have received 
around £1,000 extra each year.
Aviva didnt agree with Mr Ws complaint. It said his annuity was calculated correctly, 
and the quotations had been issued directly in line with his information request. The 
annuity rate he'd referred to was based on the annuity being paid annually in arrears. 
So it didnt think it had done anything wrong and explained that it would not be willing 
to alter Mr Ws annuity. It noted that a cooling off period of 30 days had been 
provided when the annuity was purchased and that Mr W hadnt returned the 
cancellation forms. Unhappy with that response Mr W brought his complaint to us.
I think it would be first helpful to reflect on the role and responsibilities of Aviva when 
Mr Ws pension was put into payment. Aviva didnt provide Mr W with any advice 
during those discussions. So Aviva didnt need to make sure the decisions Mr W took 
were suitable for his needs  that was essentially something he needed to ensure 
himself, or with the assistance of his financial advisor. But Aviva was responsible for 
ensuring that it gave Mr W clear, fair, and not misleading information on which he 
could base his decision.
There are many characteristics of an annuity that can be altered to suit the individual 
circumstances of a consumer. So, the initial information Aviva sent to Mr W explained 
that he could choose the payment frequency (here the choices were monthly, 
quarterly, half-yearly, or yearly) and whether those payments would be made in 
advance, in arrears, or on the 1st of each month. The annuity could just be paid 
during Mr Ws lifetime, or provide benefits for a dependent after his death. It could 
have a guarantee period, where the annuity would continue to be paid if Mr W died 
during the initial years of the annuity. And the annuity could remain at a constant 
level, or be increased each year by RPI, or a fixed percentage.
 
It is clear that it would be impractical for Aviva to provide, at the outset, individual 
quotations for the multitude of combinations of the above choices. So that it why it 
asked Mr W to let it know which options he thought were best suited to his needs. 
And as Ive explained earlier Mr W asked for a quotation based on a single life, with 
non-escalating payments being made monthly in arrears with no guarantee period. 
I can see that is exactly the quotation that Aviva sent to Mr W.
I think it should be equally clear, particularly since Mr W was being assisted by a 
financial advisor, that different annuity options will attract different annuity rates. For 
example an annuity providing payments that increase each year will obviously cost 
more than an annuity with payments that dont escalate. And the same would apply 
to when the payments are made. A single payment made each year in arrears would 
cost the provider less than making payments monthly  since the provider will benefit 
from potential investment returns on the accruing payments before they are made 
each year.
Mr W has provided us with a copy of a table showing his guaranteed annuity rates 
that he recalls he was sent by Aviva around 2014. That table shows annuity rates for 
both annual payments with no guarantee, and monthly payments with a five-year 
guarantee. From those it is clear that the different options that can be chosen will 
result in different annuity rates being applied.
So it is unsurprising, as Mr W complains, that taking his annuity payments annually in 
arrears would have resulted in him receiving a higher annual payment, than he 
received when taking his annuity payments monthly. But it was Mr Ws choice how 
he wished to structure the annuity he was purchasing from Aviva  Aviva simply 
provided him with information about the option he had chosen. And, if Mr W had 
asked Aviva for alternative quotations, such as his payments being annual, then I am 
sure they would have been provided to him.
As I said earlier I dont think Aviva was under any obligation to validate the decisions 
Mr W was making. It would have been unaware of his circumstances, and plans for 
his retirement. Aviva could only act on the instructions that Mr W provided about how 
he wished his annuity to be structured, and provide him with the relevant information.
I have considered that Aviva told Mr W that based on your key information, our 
quote is the highest available to you. I agree that it is likely that Mr W could have 
received a higher income if he had agreed to receive his payments annually in 
arrears. But that wasnt the basis on which he asked Aviva to provide his benefits  
he asked for them to be paid monthly in arrears. So based on that key information 
I think it was entirely reasonable for Aviva to make the statement that it did. I dont 
think that information was misleading.So, whilst I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr W, I dont 
currently think that Aviva did anything wrong when it provided information to him 
about his retirement options. I think it provided an annuity quotation on the basis that 
Mr W requested. And I dont think Aviva was reasonably required to explore other 
options without a specific request from Mr W. So I dont currently think that Aviva 
needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Aviva has said that it has nothing further to add. Mr W has said that he 
doesnt agree with my provisional findings and has provided some further comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Mr W has said I want to reassure him that I have 
read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr W has said that he only asked Aviva for a single quotation in March 2020. He says that at 
that time there was no indication from Aviva that the options he had chosen would make a 
significant different to the annuity rate. And he says the information he received with the 
quotation  that the quote was the highest available to him  was incorrect.
Mr W says that the information Aviva provided to him was incomplete and caused him to 
make a poor decision. He says that Aviva could, and should, have provided information 
about the comparative annuity rates based on the different options that could be chosen. He 
says that if he hadnt kept the rate table he had been sent in 2014 there would have been no 
rate information available  Aviva didnt advise the rate it was using when it calculated his 
annuity, or provide any contractual justification for the rate it used.
Mr W thinks that the way Aviva presented his options engineered him to make a choice that 
would save the business money. He says that Aviva chose to hide the only clear indicator 
behind his decision  the actual annuity rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank Mr W for the clear and comprehensive response that he has provided in 
respect of my provisional findings. I have considered what he has said carefully, but Im 
sorry to tell him that his comments havent caused me to change my mind about his 
complaint. I would, however, like to take the opportunity to respond to some of the points 
that he has raised.
As I explained in my provisional decision I dont think it practical for Aviva to provide a full 
range of quotations covering all the possible annuity choices that a consumer could make. 
Instead I think it was reasonable for Aviva to be guided by Mr W in the options that he had 
chosen.
Aviva needs to provide information in a clear and easily understandable form for consumers. 
In the case of an annuity, the simplest form for that information is what the annual, or 
monthly, payments would be if the annuity quotation were accepted. I dont agree that 
providing the underlying annuity rate would give any more, or better, clarity around those 
choices. And in any case, even if I did think that Aviva should provide the underlying annuity 
rate (which for clarity I dont), I would only expect it to do so in respect of the choices that a 
consumer had already made. So in Mr Ws case it doesnt seem to me that he would have 
received any additional comparative information.When Aviva sent the quotation to Mr W it told him that the rate it was offering was the best 
available to him, based on his key information (my emphasis). I think that endorsement is 
important. The quotation it provided was in respect of a specific annuity - on a single life, 
with payments being made monthly in arrears with no guarantee period. I am persuaded 
that, given the guaranteed annuity rate available to Mr W, the quotation was the best 
available to him for that specific annuity. I dont think that the information Aviva provided was 
in any way misleading, or suggested that other annuity options wouldnt increase the value 
of Mr Ws income.
So, as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think that Aviva did anything wrong when it 
provided information to Mr W about his retirement options. I think it provided an annuity 
quotation on the basis that Mr W requested. And I dont think Aviva was reasonably required 
to explore other options without a specific request from Mr W. So I dont think that Aviva 
needs to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman