DRN-3030933
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society, Portman at the time, mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale and the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions 
of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The policy 
provided cover on Mr S who has told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay from his job at 
the time of the sale.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Nationwides offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs S paid, was fair in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs Ss representative 
didnt agree  although it didnt raise any points not previously considered. 
Mr and Mrs S also asked for a decision. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Nationwides offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs S have said the PPI was just included with the mortgage. But the mortgage 
application form had a separate PPI section, with boxes to tick to say either yes or no 
to the cover. On Mr and Mrs Ss form, which they signed to apply for the mortgage, the 
yes box was ticked - and I think they wouldve known that if they didnt want cover the 
no box shouldve been ticked instead. Also, nothing on the form said Mr and Mrs S had 
to take the PPI or tick the box for it if they didnt want it.
Taking everything into account, I think it likely Nationwide made it clear Mr and Mrs S 
didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to take it.  
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S - so it didnt have to check the 
PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs S enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and their mortgage application 
form told them it was cover for the loan repayments in case of redundancy or serious 
illness or accident - so it looks to me like they wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs S. For example, Mr S was the 
higher earner and, from what hes told us, was entitled only to statutory sick pay. I think it 
likely hed also have suffered a loss of income if he was unemployed for as long as the 
policy benefit could last. So it seems the benefit wouldve been useful to Mr and Mrs S. 
Also nothing about Mr Ss job or employment wouldve made it hard to claim. Hes told 
us of injuries years before the sale, but not of any health issue I think likely to have put 
him off the cover had he known more about the exclusions for existing health issues. 
Also there were no extra restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
The mortgage application form indicated what the premium rate would be and the actual 
PPI cost was set out separately for Mr and Mrs S in a letter once the mortgage started. 
With all this in mind, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take the cover wouldve 
been different if theyd been told more about this at the sale.
Overall I dont think the cover was too different to what its likely Mr and Mrs S thought 
they were buying from the information its likely they were given  and, with this and all 
Ive said above in mind, I dont think they wouldve have declined it had Nationwide done 
more. The policy helped protect their mortgage, so also I bear in mind the consequences 
were Mr and Mrs S to have become unable to pay a loan secured on their home.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs S wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they thought they were getting and couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult 
time, given their circumstances at the time. And, in those circumstances, I think they 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Nationwides offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid 
in this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Nationwide and Mr and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Nationwide didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case; 
I dont think Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs S, 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs S should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Nationwide failed to tell Mr and Mrs S about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipthat meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have taken 
the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a refund of 
all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs S in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Nationwide not disclosing the 
high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ss representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Nationwides failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Nationwide to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr and Mrs S paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs S with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if Nationwide had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Nationwides payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
As Nationwide has already paid Mr and Mrs S compensation on this basis, I dont consider it 
should do anything further. Nationwide has sent a letter to show it sent a cheque for this to 
Mr and Mrs S in November 2018, and it has told us the payment was made to Mr and Mrs S 
in December 2018.Im grateful to Mr and Mrs S for their courtesy throughout our consideration of this matter and 
for their prompt provision of additional information when requested to assist our inquiries.
 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs S an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation 
on this basis, I do not consider that Nationwide Building Society should do anything more.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman