DRN-3269369
The complaint
Mr H complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his credit card account application.
What happened
Mr H says he applied for a HSBC credit card account in June 2021 which was approved. He 
says he realised that HSBC had used a previous address for the account and asked it to 
cancel the agreement. Mr H says he made a number of telephone calls to HSBC about this 
issue as he wanted confirmation the account had been closed. He says he spent a 
significant amount of time on those calls and was caused distress and inconvenience. Mr H 
says HSBCs compensation offer of £200 doesnt go far enough and would like £500. He 
says the issue impacted on his health.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake and has offered £200 compensation or has offered to 
repay Mr Hs call costs. It says its call times are longer at present and has cancelled the 
account.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation appropriate. 
The investigator accepted Mr H made a number of calls to HSBC and accepted the mistake 
impacted on Mr Hs health.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he wasnt told the credit card account had been 
closed when he called HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. It is not clear if HSBC has paid the compensation of £200.
There is no dispute here that HSBC made a mistake by registering a previous address for Mr 
H and in how it then dealt with his complaint. I appreciate Mr Hs concern that the account 
card could have been sent to an incorrect address and also appreciate his concerns about 
potential fraud. I have no doubt Mr H then spent some time trying to call HSBC and in trying 
to cancel the account. I also appreciate what Mr H has told us about his health and the 
impact this mistake had upon him.
It follows that the only issue for me to consider is the compensation amount. I make clear to 
Mr H that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our role to punish it for what took 
place.
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly accepted responsibility for what took place and has 
apologised. Im also satisfied HSBC has explained what took place and that the account was 
cancelled. I have to consider the actual impact on Mr H and so I cant fairly speculate about 
what may have taken place or award compensation for what may have taken place. I dont 
think Mr H suffered any financial loss and am satisfied that he was told that the account had 
been cancelled but I accept that Mr H was given conflicting information about that due to a 
communication error.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable offer of £200 compensation 
which I think fairly reflects the level of its mistake and the impact it had upon Mr H. I dont 
think a higher award is justified here for the reasons I have explained. And I am satisfied that 
offer is in line with the type of award we would make for this type of mistake and impact. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £200. Mr Hs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman