DRN-4513304
The complaint
Mr T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs service and lack of communication when they 
decided to move his account to a different branch.
What happened
I issued two provisional decisions on 4 November 2023 and 1 December 2023, and this is 
what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator
proposed. Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 20 November 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs service and lack of communication when they 
decided to move his account to a different branch.
What happened
Mr T holds three HSBC bank accounts and he discovered that, due to his branch being 
closed in 2022, he had been allocated a new branch.
Mr T was disappointed that HSBC hadnt informed him of this by letter, email or via online 
banking services and he wanted to have details of his new branch. Also, he was concerned 
about the change impacting his overseas pension.
When Mr T complained, HSBC apologised for the branch closure causing inconvenience
and explained it was a business decision as many customers were moving to a digital way of
banking. He was surprised to be told he needed to use telephone banking to find out the
location of his new branch, and he wasnt registered to use telephone banking. 
Also, Mr T says he discovered his new branch would be approximately 70 miles from where
he lived, and the reason for this wasnt explained to him. Also, his requests for his accounts
to be held at a local branch were declined and he says he was told he could only have an
account at a local branch if he opened a new account and closed his existing accounts.
Mr T was also unhappy with how his complaint was handled. He feels he hasnt had a
response, explanation or remedy and his request for his complaint to be escalated to a
senior manager wasnt met. Furthermore, Mr T feels that there has been a lack of respect
and customer care for a customer who has held an account with HSBC for a considerable
time.
Mr T complained to our service about the way he had been treated and how this had caused 
him inconvenience, anxiety and distress. Also, he would like:
His three accounts to be transferred to one of his local branches
A detailed explanation as to why he was not notified of the proposed closure of his 
branch
A considered apology from HSBC senior management
A further apology from HSBC senior management for the careless way in which his 
complaint was handled and the failure to make the transfer when requested
Confirmation from HSBC that lessons have been learned in both branch closure 
procedures and complaints handling to prevent a repetition of the above
Assurance that there wont be any identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had acted in error and said he wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
As Mr T remains dissatisfied this case has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have a different view to the investigator and Im upholding this complaint. I 
will explain how I have come to my decision.
I should first explain this service cant instruct a business to alter its policy, procedures,
processes or systems. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services
industry. Also, there are rules (known as DISP Rules) laid down by the regulator, the
Financial Conduct Authority, which means complaint handling is not a regulated activity. So,
specific complaints about how a business have handled a complaint cant be considered by
our service.
So, whilst I understand Mr Ts frustration and concerns here, Im unable to instruct HSBC 
senior managers to respond or put preventative measures in place.
Our role is to consider each individual case and, where we think a business hasnt acted 
fairly and / or reasonably in the circumstances, to decide what should be done to put right 
any financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced.
From reviewing the file, I can see that HSBC shouldve informed Mr T that his branch was 
changing. This is because, in addition to Mr Ts persuasive submissions, HSBC say:
Customers are usually informed 12 weeks prior to a branch closure however, I do not see a 
note on your account which confirms that we did inform you.
I found Mr Ts request, for his accounts to be moved to a branch near to him, to be 
reasonable and I cant see a satisfactory reason why HSBC couldnt accommodate his 
request. Also, the following HSBC comment suggests that, despite Mr Ts request, his 
request wasnt considered:
The most likely reason why your account has been moved to a London branch would be 
due to that particular branch being your most local full service branch.
In addition, I queried whether HSBC understood that Mr T didnt live in London and asked if 
they could accommodate his request and I was pleased that a representative said:
I have moved Mr Ts account holding branch to our x branch as that is closest to his home 
address.
I have redacted the branch however this is a location requested by Mr T. However, HSBC 
havent confirmed this is the three accounts and I await confirmation from HSBC and/ or Mr 
T.So, although I understand Mr T will be disappointed that HSBC still havent explained either
their lack of notification error or inability to move his accounts to the branch of his choice,
from the information received Im satisfied that these were errors.
Having determined that HSBC made errors here, I then considered the impact on Mr T and
how HSBC should put things right.
It is clear from reading Mr Ts submissions that these HSBC errors have caused him
inconvenience, anxiety and distress. Also, HSBC missed opportunities to put things right and
I found that they aggravated the situation, and added to the impact on Mr T, by directing Mr
T to services he couldnt use, refusing his request and not providing an explanation. In
addition, I can see this has caused Mr T a high level of frustration and annoyance and to 
have a loss of confidence in HSBC.
So, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
For the reasons explained above I cant tell HSBC to give Mr T the following:
A detailed explanation as to why he wasnt notified of the proposed closure of his
branch
A considered apology from HSBC senior management
A further apology from HSBC senior management for the careless way in which his 
complaint was handled and the failure to make the transfer when requested
Confirmation from HSBC that lessons have been learned in both branch closure 
procedures and complaints handling to prevent a repetition
However, I require HSBC to pay Mr T £250 compensation. Also, if it hasnt already been 
provided, to give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there 
wont be any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc, to:
Pay Mr T £250 compensation.
Give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be 
any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 20 November 
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I gave both HSBC and Mr T the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
I would like to thank both parties for responding before the deadline.
HSBC said:I have updated the account holding branch and I am happy to agree to pay £250
compensation. Please be aware that the branch change is for all accounts Mr T holds.
Although Mr T said he was pleased with a finding that awarded compensation and stated
that HSBC had acted in error, he didnt agree with the provisional decision and raised the
following:
Having considered the FCA DISP rules, he didnt accept that the way HSBC handled his 
complaint was out of scope and is of the opinion that HSBCs failure to deal adequately 
with his complaint should warrant additional compensation.
He believes the award of £250 is too low. This is because he has had to: 
endure the anxiety and uncertainty involved as a result of the Bank's errors for many 
months and the cavalier way in which I was treated by the Bank merits an award of more 
than a token award - if the Bank is to learn that it should not make errors and then disregard 
its customers, then the financial award it has to pay should recognise that and be increased 
appropriately.
He hasnt had any formal confirmation regarding the transfer of his accounts and is not 
prepared to accept that all 3 of his accounts have been moved until he receives written 
or email confirmation from HSBC.
I looked again at the complaint handling element of this complaint. I considered whether the 
evidence, which showed a lack of response, explanation and remedy when Mr T 
complained, should be in scope. Having reviewed the DISP rule guidance and relevant case 
law Im persuaded that it should be. This is because it was a continuation of the original 
service issue and Mr T was seeking an explanation and resolution and HSBCs complaint 
handling team were assisting.
I found that HSBCs complaint handler missed opportunities to help Mr T and resolve his 
complaint. He initially misunderstood Mr Ts complaint and suggested he call telephone 
banking when Mr T doesnt use this service. Also, although he accepted a communication 
error was likely, he didnt offer an explanation. In addition, he didnt explain why Mr T 
couldnt transfer his account to a local branch or escalate Mr Ts complaint upon his request.
Furthermore, its now clear its possible to transfer an account to a local branch and this 
wasnt considered.
So, having taken HSBCs complaint handling into consideration, although I cant specify it 
comes from a senior manager, I require HSBC to provide an apology to Mr T for the way 
they handled his complaint.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and does tend to be modest. I looked again at
the £250 I awarded in my provisional decision for HSBCs errors (lack of branch closure
notification and inability to move his account), which they do not appear to dispute. I did
consider the missed opportunities to put things right which was at the complaint handling
stage, but I didnt though specifically look at the complaint handling. So, as HSBC made
complaint handling errors which caused Mr T additional inconvenience and distress, I think
HSBC should pay him an additional £100.
I further considered the compensation amount for the HSBC errors. I must point out that our
service doesnt perform the role of the industry regulator and I do not have the power to 
make rules for financial businesses or to punish them. I am though satisfied that these errors 
caused Mr T inconvenience, distress, frustration and annoyance together with a loss of 
confidence. But when considering the current on-file information about the impact of these 
errors on Mr T, Im not persuaded that the figure of £250 should increase.Finally, although HSBC have helpfully confirmed that all of Mr Ts accounts have moved to a 
local branch, I require HSBC to write to Mr T to formally confirm this. Also, give him the 
assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be any 
communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension.
So, considering all the above including my provisional decision, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to:
Pay Mr T £350 compensation
Give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be 
any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Write to Mr T to:
o Apologise for their complaint handling
o Confirm that all of his accounts have moved to a local branch
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr T £350 compensation
Give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be 
any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Write to Mr T to:
o Apologise for their complaint handling
o Confirm that all of his accounts have moved to a local branch
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 18 December 
2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my second provisional decision, I gave both HSBC and Mr T the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.
I would like to thank both parties for responding before the deadline.
Both parties confirmed their agreement with my provisional decision.
Mr T questioned when he would hear from HSBC regarding the transfer of his accounts. Due 
to this being outstanding and HSBC having confirmed the following: 
I have moved Mr Ts account holding branch to our x branch as that is closest to his 
home address.
Please be aware that the branch change is for all accounts Mr T holds
I have added further clarity to my final decision by amending the following requirement:From - Confirm that all of his accounts have moved to a local branch
To  Confirm, by no later than 31 January 2024, that all of his accounts have moved 
to the branch closest to his home address 
Following agreement by both parties, I adopt my provisional decision and reasons. 
So, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ts complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to:
Pay Mr T £350 compensation
Give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be 
any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Write to Mr T to:
o Apologise for their complaint handling
o Confirm, by no later than 31 January 2024, that all of his accounts have moved to the 
branch closest to his home address
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ts complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr T £350 compensation
Give Mr T the assurance that he is seeking, that by changing his branch, there wont be 
any communication or identifier issues impacting on his overseas pension
Write to Mr T to:
o Apologise for their complaint handling
o Confirm, by no later than 31 January 2024, that all of his accounts have moved to the 
branch closest to his home address
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman