DRN-2301757
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a policy to him.
What happened
Mr B bought an income protection policy in 2006 which was sold and recommended to him 
by an adviser. He feels the policy was mis-sold as he was pressurised into buying it. 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong as the policy which was 
recommended was suitable for his needs. He didnt think Mr B had been pressurised as 
there was no evidence of this in the paperwork.  
Mr B disagreed and said he was pressured by repeated statements of financial hardship 
even though he had indicated he didnt have funds for additional insurance products. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
For an advised sale, the relevant rules and regulations say a business should do the 
following:
Consider Mr Bs circumstances and give him appropriate information to ensure a 
policy is suitable for his needs.
Provide the information in good time and in an easy to understand format.
Ive seen Mr B met with his adviser in 2006 who completed a financial planning report. This 
covered the following:
Mr Bs salary. 
Mr Bs sick pay from his employer - 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay.
Total monthly outgoings. 
Mr B had no other income protection policies. 
The recommended policy would provide a benefit of £2,428.29 per month after a 52-
week deferred period if Mr B was unable to work due to illness or accidental injury.
Mr B says he felt pressurised into taking the policy and that his wife was brought to tears 
during the meeting due to the scenarios discussed by the adviser. Mr B says this meant that 
the policy was mis-sold. 
I appreciate Mr Bs concerns and Im sorry to hear how Mrs B felt during this meeting. 
Unless there was a recording of the meeting, Im unable to say whether or not the adviser 
put pressure on Mr B. And so Im limited to considering the paper evidence available from 
the time of the sale. 
The policy paperwork confirms Mr B was able to cancel his policy within 30 days of receiving 
his policy documents if he changed his mind. And so if Mr B felt pressurised at the time of 
the sale, he had 30 days to change his mind and cancel the policy. As he didnt do so, and 
as there is no way of me knowing what was said at the meeting, I cant conclude that the 
adviser put pressure on Mr B to take this policy. The recommendation seems to be a 
suitable one in the event that Mr B was unable to work due to illness or accidental injury. 
And Ive seen no evidence that Mr B had another income protection policy which would have 
covered his outgoings as set out above. So I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Nationwide has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman