DRN-3758603
The complaint
Mr U says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by approving an overdraft for 
him when he had a gambling addiction. He says the charges he incurred for this were 
unaffordable and caused financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr U applied for an overdraft online in July 2018 and was approved with an overdraft limit of 
£300. In November the same year Mr U informed Lloyds he had a gambling addiction. 
Lloyds cancelled the overdraft and issued Mr U with a cash only card and put a strict flag on 
his account and told him he must call in again after 12 months if he wished this to stay on.
In October 2020 Mr U applied and was approved for another overdraft with a limit of £250. 
Mr U complained to Lloyds that it never should have granted him with an overdraft. Lloyds 
said all the checks were carried out correctly and based on the information Mr U provided it 
agreed to the overdraft requested. 
Mr U was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Us concerns and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong or 
treated Mr U unfairly. 
Mr U disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Us complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr U 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lloyds did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Us overdraft. Mr U was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr U would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Mr U first applied for a £500 overdraft in July 2018 and on the same day he dropped the limit 
to £300. All applications were fully credit scored taking into account information Mr U 
provided about his income and expenditure as well as information held by other lenders 
provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information Lloyds was 
satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft limit and facility he 
requested.
I accept that Mr Us financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But given the relatively low amount of credit 
being advanced and that his monthly income and expenditure showed a surplus of more 
than the overdraft limit I think Lloydss checks went far enough and it was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
Mr U is also unhappy Lloyds provided him with an overdraft in 2020 after he had notified it of 
his gambling addiction in 2018. But I can see Lloyds did take immediate action when notified 
of this by cancelling his overdraft and putting a strict flag on his account for 12 months 
asking Mr U to get in touch after this period if he wanted to keep it in place. 
But as Mr U didnt get in touch the flag was removed. This overdraft application was made 
online and went through the same credit scoring as his previous one and as Mr U was 
managing his account well with regular credits coming into his account Lloyds agreed to 
provide him with another overdraft with a relatively low limit of £250. So I dont think Lloyds 
provided Mr U with an overdraft unfairly or responsibly.
That said, even though Mr Us overdrafts werent provided irresponsibly, Lloyds still wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr U if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Mr Us account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mr U was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr U fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr U unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Us statements I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
The statements show that Mr U did use his overdraft, but that in itself isnt enough to show 
that Lloyds ought to have known Mr U was in financial difficulty. Mr U was receiving regular 
credits into his account that at times brought his account into credit and if not into credit 
significantly reduced it. I accept that Mr U did have some returned payments, but I can see 
large transfers being made to another of his accounts which contributed to this. I can also 
see that although some bills were being paid from the account there was just as many non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions.
Again, this doesnt necessarily mean Mr U wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But I dont 
think there is enough here which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial 
difficulty before Mr U got in touch. And in these circumstances, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did.So I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr U unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman