DRN-2204785
The complaint
Mr S complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited unfairly rejected his claim brought 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants it to cancel the alleged debt.
What happened
Mr S explains that in April 2018 he ordered a bedroom set from a company Ill refer to as B. 
This was financed through a fixed sum loan agreement. He tells us that the items were never 
delivered. But that he wasnt too concerned at the delay as he was finding it difficult to 
maintain payments. Mr S says hes found out that B is no longer trading. And that Omni is 
now chasing him for the debt.
Omni told us that it had rejected Mr S complaint as it had taken over a year for him to raise 
the complaint despite having numerous contacts with Omni. It said the account was also in 
arrears from an early stage.
I issued provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I explained that I wasnt satisfied there was sufficient information to 
show that the goods ordered by Mr S had ever been delivered to him. And that in the 
absence of such information it wasnt fair and reasonable to expect him to pay for items 
which hadnt been supplied.
Both parties have replied. Mr S accepted my provisional decision without further comment. 
Omni said it had nothing to add. But it has subsequently advised that it has implemented the 
terms of the provisional decision. I infer from this that it has accepted it.
I thank both parties for their responses. In the light of these, I see no need to change my 
provisional decision which is largely repeated below in the reasons for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint is brought under section 75. In brief, this gives a consumer - in limited 
circumstances - which Im satisfied apply here - an equal claim against the provider of 
finance as they have against the supplier. It applies where theres been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr S complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr S pursued a claim for breach of contract.
Where information is unclear or in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S complaint in plain terms is that the goods he purchased were never supplied. And he 
doesnt think he should be required to pay for them now that they arent going to be supplied 
due to B no longer trading.
Omni issued a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 3 July 2019. It indicated it had 
investigated Cs complaint and wasnt upholding it.
That letter contained the following paragraphs (my underlining):
You contacted us on 17 April 2019 to raise your concerns around the non-receipt of the 
items ordered following the announcement of the retailer having entered into a voluntary 
strike off.
We have noted that at that time your account had been live and 14 payments had been 
received over the phone however there has been no prior notification of non-receipt of your 
goods.
On this occasion we have been unable to uphold your complaint due to the time taken to 
inform us that you had not received your goods.
Amongst the information with which Ive been provided are several phone recordings.
Phone calls from 29 September 2018, and 3, 9, 12 October 2018 and 21 February 2019 
appear the most relevant.
During these calls and whilst discussing other issues Mr S mentions that hes not yet 
received the goods.
I cant see that Omni sought to follow up this issue with B, which at the relevant times was 
still in business. It appeared from the calls that the handlers were more focussed on 
collection of payments.
The law of contract allows for claims to be made up to six years after any alleged breach. 
Consequently, it doesnt appear to be a legitimate reason to refuse a claim simply because 
there is thought to be a delay of around one year in it being made.
Here the non-receipt of goods was raised as early as September 2018 - which was only five 
months after the agreement commenced. So there was even less reason to reject the 
complaint on the basis of delay.
In these circumstances, I dont consider that Omni has considered this complaint correctly or 
reached a fair conclusion. The terms in which the FRL is expressed imply that its for Mr S to 
prove non-delivery. Whereas the reverse is true. Its for Omni to show the goods about which 
it now seeks to collect / enforce a debt were supplied. Ive seen no information which shows 
this to be the case.
The items in this case were purchased at a cost of £3,200. Id have expected with such 
valuable items that there would be some documentary information evidencing the delivery 
and receipt of the goods. Ive not been supplied with any such information.In summary, I dont think Omni has dealt with the complaint fairly as its original decision to 
reject it appears to be largely based on a mistake of fact regarding the time when non  
receipt of the goods was advised.
Accordingly, Im upholding the complaint and I require Omni to end the agreement (if it 
hasnt already done so) and cancel the alleged debt. It must also refund those payments 
which Mr S has made on the agreement. Mr S notified Omni on several occasions about the 
non-delivery, which it should have been followed up. When he made a legitimate complaint, 
the basis on which it was rejected was a mistake of fact.
I think Mr S should receive a modest award for the inconvenience hes experienced in 
having his concerns ignored and having to try and obtain a refund for those payments he 
made.
Putting things right
Omni now needs to take the following action:
1. If not already terminated, end the agreement with nothing for Mr S to pay;
2. Refund all payments made on the agreement together with simple interest at the rate 
of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
3. Pay £50 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience;
4. Arrange to have all details of the agreement removed from Mr S credit record.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to take the action Ive stated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.
I understand it may already have taken the required steps.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman