DRN-2766005
The complaint
Mr B complains about The Co-operative Bank Plcs (the Co-op) decision to remove his 
overdraft from his account during the Covid-19 pandemic.
 
What happened
Mr B holds a current account with the Co-op. In early October 2020 he received a letter 
explaining they would be removing his arranged overdraft facility on 31 December 2020. The 
Co-Op said Mr B should ensure he had enough money in his account by this date  thats 
because any balance over and above the standard overdraft limit would be treated as 
unarranged, and this could impact his credit file. 
Mr B called the Co-op to discuss the matter, but was unhappy with the staff member he 
spoke with, and the complaints team that tried to assist, so he requested a manager call him 
back. The Co-op returned his call a couple of days later, but a manager wasnt available. 
They explained it was a business decision to remove the overdraft, and they could look at 
what financial support could be offered. But Mr B remained unhappy with the lack of detail 
provided for the overdraft removal; the service hed received up to this point; and the fact a 
manager hadnt called him back, so he complained. 
The Co-op responded. They said an annual review of overdrafts was carried out every year 
in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And based on that review, Mr B was no 
longer eligible for the overdraft he had. They said they are required to provide two months 
notice of any intention to remove an overdraft, but in this case, due the Covid-19 pandemic, 
they extended this to three months. They said they tried to speak with Mr B to explore ways 
to support him moving forward following this decision, but that Mr B had made the calls 
particularly difficult. Overall, they were happy with the service levels they had provided. 
Unhappy with the Co-ops response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He also said 
the Co-op did not acknowledge receipt of the complaint itself.
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint. He said he thought the Co-op was entitled to 
reduce Mr Bs overdraft in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And he said they had 
treated Mr B fairly by initially providing three months notice when only two were required, as 
well as extending this to five months after Mr B complained. But having listened to the calls 
between Mr B and the Co-op, he didnt think there were any issues in the service levels the 
Co-op provided, and he was satisfied they did acknowledge Mr Bs complaint the day after it 
was received. So he didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint be upheld. 
Mr B did not accept the investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs set out his position at length and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mr B has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy.
When the Co-op first wrote to Mr B on 1 October 2020, they explained they would be 
removing his arranged overdraft on 31 December 2020. I appreciate this was not an ideal 
situation for Mr B at a time where he was relying on that money. But overdrafts in general 
are repayable on demand. And the Co-ops terms and conditions sets this out. They state:
We may request repayment of part or all of an overdraft at any time and/or reduce any 
overdraft limit at any time, but we will usually give you advance notice. They go on to say:
The overdraft will continue until it is terminated by us or you. You can terminate the 
agreement at any time by repaying all amounts owed to us. We can terminate the agreement 
at any time by giving you at least two months notice in writing.
Its clear from the terms and conditions of the account that the Co-op were entitled to remove 
Mr Bs overdraft at any time by giving him at least two months notice. But just because they 
were allowed to remove the overdraft, I would still expect them to take Mr Bs circumstances 
into account, and treat him positively and sympathetically when considering how best to 
manage the situation, so as not to put him into too difficult a financial position. 
I can see in this case, Mr B was initially provided with three months notice of the Co-ops 
intentions, when they were required to provide just two. I can also see that this deadline was 
later extended to the end of February 2021, giving him five months in total to clear the 
balance. I also note that when Mr B contacted the Co-op in March 2021 to clear the final 
amount owing, the Co-op waived the outstanding debit interest. They also took proactive 
steps to try and speak with Mr B to discuss potential ways forward. So I think the Co-op did 
more than its terms and conditions obliged it to. And in the circumstances, I think it acted 
both fairly and reasonably toward Mr B when choosing to remove his arranged overdraft.
Turning to the issue of service, Ive now listened to all of the calls between Mr B and the 
Co-ops staff members. From listening to the first call, it seems the advisor was doing his 
best to provide Mr B with answers to his questions. He explained he would need to put Mr B 
on hold to try and find information about his complaint, but Mr B instead requested the 
advisor read out the Co-ops complaint procedure. The advisor again offered to put Mr B on 
hold to locate this information as he did not work in that department, but Mr B insisted the 
advisor read out the complaint procedure at that point.
Its clear to me from the initial call that Mr B was upset, and that he may have been venting 
that frustration at the staff member he was speaking with; but equally, it was clear that the 
advisor did not have the information to hand that Mr B was asking for, and was being 
refused at every attempt to be able to go and obtain it in order to answer Mr Bs questions. 
As a result, the call became somewhat unproductive. 
When Mr B eventually agreed to be put on hold, the advisor came back a short while later 
and explained the complaints process to Mr B. But Mr B said the Co-op had not followed 
their own processes or FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) guidance, and had not 
acknowledged his complaint. The advisor tried to explain that the process had been 
followed, but Mr B continued to talk over him, leaving him unable to provide an explanation. 
As a result, the call was transferred through to the complaints team. The complaints team that took over the call asked Mr B what information he would like 
regarding the complaints procedure. And Mr B explained that his complaint had not been 
acknowledged; there had been nothing sent in writing; and there had been no notification of 
timescales. Throughout the call Mr B continued to use sarcastic language, and laughed over 
the advisor when he tried to answer Mr Bs questions, making comments that at times were 
more personal in nature and not conducive to reaching a solution. Eventually the advisor 
explained that he would terminate the call based on the way he was being spoken to. I think 
this was reasonable given the circumstances.  
Having listened to all of the calls, Mr Bs tone remained argumentative and challenging in 
nature, rarely allowing the staff members trying to deal with his query the opportunity to 
speak. I appreciate losing his overdraft during the pandemic would have been frustrating, but 
at every point the Co-op attempted to help, they were met with challenge or arguments from 
Mr B, or accused of lying when they tried to talk. I think theres every chance an amicable 
solution couldve been reached if the calls had been allowed to progress constructively, but 
unfortunately this was not the case.
Turning to the issue of the manager call-back, I can see that during one of the calls, shortly 
before it was terminated, the advisor agreed for a manager to call Mr B back within 48 hours. 
I can appreciate why Mr B would be frustrated that he was not called by a manager at this 
time. But the Co-op staff member explained that hed been asked to call Mr B back, as he 
was deemed best placed to deal with such complaints. 
Having listened to this call, Mr B again continued to talk over the advisor and asked 
repeatedly why a manager hadnt called back. Im confident that had Mr B allowed the call to 
progress, that a potential solution could have been reached. Its not clear whether towards 
the end of the call the line had cut off, but the advisor continued to try and speak to Mr B with 
no response, and ultimately explained that he would terminate the call as he could not hear 
anything coming back from Mr Bs side. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Turning to Mr Bs point about the co-op not acknowledging his complaint. I can see that 
Mr Bs original complaint was raised on 14 October 2020, and was escalated internally on 
15 October 2020. I can also see that an acknowledgment letter was sent to Mr B on 
15 October 2020, just one day after receipt of his complaint, setting out the complaint 
process and associated timelines. I can also see that a follow up letter explaining that the 
complaint was still being reviewed was sent around three weeks later on 6 November 2020, 
and these letters were sent to the same address we hold on file for Mr B. So Im satisfied 
Mr Bs complaint was acknowledged within the required timeframes. 
I appreciate Mr B will not be happy with this outcome, but on balance, Im satisfied the Co-op 
acted in line with their terms and conditions when they chose to remove Mr Bs overdraft, 
and they treated him fairly in doing so. And having listened to all of the calls between Mr B 
and the Co-op, Im also satisfied the Co-op acted professionally, and tried on more than one 
occasion to support Mr B with this matter moving forward, but were unable to for the reasons 
set out above. Im also satisfied the Co-op acknowledged Mr Bs complaint within the 
required timescales. So for these reasons, Im wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman