DRN-2102488
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from Interactive Investor Services Limited (the 
business). 
He says he tried to persuade the business to try and resolve some discrepancies in his 
history of transactions with his ISA, but the business failed to do so in a timely manner and 
notify him.
What happened 
In early August 2019, Mr J discovered a minor difference in the running total of his 
transaction history online. On 8 August 2019, he wrote to the business drawing its attention 
to the issue. 
Mr J says he is not only unhappy about the time it has taken the business to respond to him, 
but also at being told to figure out the source of the discrepancy himself.  
In early September 2019, he discovered an issue with the way his transactions were 
displayed and complained to the business on 8 September 2019.  He was asked to supply a 
screenshot to help try and identify the issue. 
Mr J says the business final response letter (FRL) was late, had the wrong date, and didnt 
address all the issues raised, including not providing a definitive answer to when it would 
sort out the IT issue. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In its FRL dated November 2019 (incorrectly dated September 2019), the business 
partially upheld the complaint but didnt give a specific date by when it would have 
the IT issue resolved, neither did it undertake to contact Mr J directly. 
The FRL simply said its IT team were dealing with the issue and that it was upholding 
this part of the complaint. 
The business also said the IT issue was known and that it had raised issues with its 
software provider. As the issues werent specific to Mr Js account the business didnt 
contact him to say it had been resolved. 
The business responded later than it shouldve, but it did have eight weeks to 
respond after which Mr J was free to refer his complaint to our service.  
That said, the business communication with Mr J couldve been better. In the 
circumstances the business offer to pay £50 compensation (following the 
investigators intervention) for the trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The IT issue was resolved, and Mr J wasnt prevented from using his account. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and made a number of points in response, 
including not receiving any confirmation in July or at any stage that the issue had been 
resolved and taking months to respond to the complaint. 
But the investigator, having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. In summary, she said:
The redress is reasonable in the circumstances.
We can only look at the complaint that involves Mr J and not the business failure to 
contact other customers. 
Its not for us to tell the business to change its internal processes or to punish it for 
not doing so.  
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Contrary to what the investigator says, he doesnt expect the business to change its 
internal process. However, he does expect the adjudication process to consider how 
well the business has done because it failed to tell him about the IT issues (and when 
they were resolved) and that must count for something.
The business told him a secure message  dated 10 September 2019  that the 
problem was an issue affecting a small number of customers, so it should have a 
process for notifying all its customers when the problem occurred and when it was 
resolved, but it didnt.  
Despite choosing to treat Mr Js notification of the problem (on 8 September 2019) as 
a formal complaint, he heard nothing more from the business. The investigators 
suggestion that he heard from the business in July 2020 is untrue, therefore the 
investigators findings are based (in part) on inaccurate facts.  
£50 compensation for trouble and upset caused is inadequate in the circumstances. 
He believes he should receive £100 for the issue - thats gone on for months. Hes 
accepted £75 compensation from a third-party business for poor service that he 
received over just two weeks. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J says, I dont think the 
business was wrong to (partially) uphold the complaint, I also dont think the redress is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
Js strength of feeling about this matter.
Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr J and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I can confirm that 
I dont need any further information in order to reach a decision in this case.
Clearly there been a misunderstanding between what Mr J expected from the business and 
what the business felt its obligations were in this instance, with regards to rectifying an IT 
issue and notifying him and a small group of its customer effected by this issue. 
Despite what Mr J says, I note the business didnt undertake to notify him, or its customers 
effected by this issue.  Instead it applied its efforts to try and resolve the issue, which I 
understand it did within a reasonable amount of time, so that any discrepancies showing on 
Mr Js transaction history would in due course be rectified. 
I note Mr J complained on 8 September 2019, a complaint was raised by the business on 9 
September 2019. Following this an eight-week response was sent on 5 November 2019 (a 
day late) giving Mr J his referral rights because it was still waiting to hear back from a third-
party business before it could provide a more definitive answer. 
The FRL was issued on 7 November 2019 partially upholding the complaint. It said:
 
After a detailed check with our technical team and their counterparties, we have
found the reason for why your account does not show your initial dividend into the
account. For efficiency, the system that creates your transaction history looks at
whether the start date of the period is closer to now or the start of the account's
existence. If it's closer to now, it works backwards from now. If it's closer to the start
of the account's existence, it works forwards from then (and there is no bug). On your
account it works backwards from now and there were no transactions before the
statement start date, so the system can't go back to the last record from before the
statement start date because one doesn't exist. So this remains on the first record
after the start date. So when running through, our system doesn't realise it hasn't
already picked up the first record. Our delivery team will be fixing this. As this is an
issue on our side, I will be upholding this aspect of your complaint.
In relation to the contract notes, I have checked the trade prices and the debits made
on your account in relation to this. I can see initially two contract notes had been sent
that discrepancy of a penny. This was rectified and you received two more contract
notes that are correct on your account. I have also checked our accounting systems
to verify them and can confirm the contract notes below correspond with the details
shown on your transaction history. I am unable to uphold this aspect of your
complaint.
In my opinion the FRL provided a reasonable explanation of what happened (and the root 
causes) with regards to the discrepancy online. But the business didnt know when the issue 
would be resolved, so a date wasnt given. I note Mr J disagrees with this. 
The decision not to contact a small group of customers also affected by this issue was a 
commercial decision the business was entitled make in the reasonable exercise of its 
commercial judgement. Its not the issue before me and its certainly not for us to tell the 
business how to run its affairs.
I can see why Mr J thought he ought to have been notified, given that he was the person 
raising the issue. I note Mr J says without the involvement of our service he wouldnt have 
been aware the issue was resolved. But Im also mindful that the business says it was aware of the issue and was already 
working on fixing it and having identified the root cause it didnt know when itd be fixed. I 
note it was dependent on information from a third-party business. So, at that stage it 
probably couldnt have given Mr J a precise date even if it wanted to. 
I appreciate Mr J feels the offer of compensation is unreasonable. But in the circumstances, 
Im unable to agree. 
Im aware of Mr Js example where he received £75 compensation for an issue that lasted 
two weeks but Ive no further information about this. The question for me to consider isnt 
simply about the length of time the issue mightve gone on for, but also the size of the issue 
and ultimately the impact it had on the consumer. Its a dynamic process that takes into 
account a number of individual factors. 
In other words, something that has gone on for days could have a far greater impact on a 
consumer than something that has goes on for few weeks or even months. 
In this instance the impact of not being notified when the issue was resolved and the wrong 
date on the FRL  neither of which was done deliberately  is minimal. I note the business 
responded a day late. 
The business accepts responsibility for this and the IT issue, but also notes that this hasnt 
affected Mr J finically or prevented him from going about his business, which I think is very 
important in this instance and explains why the compensation isnt unreasonable.
I note the business says that it provides regular statements for accounts, a separate section 
online to see available cash for every account and contract notes that detail transactional 
information so Mr J was not materially impacted by this issue. So, the situation isnt the 
same as if it hadnt been resolved and had caused Mr J not to have access to his account 
resulting in financial loss. 
Im mindful Mr J has lost faith in the business being able to do the right thing. But its a 
matter for Mr J whether (or not) he continues with the business.
Im sure the business will take on board and pass on any comments internally to the relevant 
department from Mr J that might help it improve its service to its customers. 
I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer by Interactive Investor Services Limited to pay £50 for trouble and upset is 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances and if it hasnt already paid this it has to do 
so now. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Dara IslamOmbudsman