DRN-3353819
The complaint
Mr K complains about Saga Services Limited continuing to collect premiums for his private 
medical insurance policy during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr K contacted Saga in January 2021 and complained. He said itd been collecting 
premiums for his policy despite it being aware that private medical operations had largely 
been paused given the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Saga responded to Mr Ks complaint and said:
It was sorry to learn of his disappointment and it apologised for any concern that may 
have been caused. 
It hadnt ceased operating during the pandemic. It had actually adjusted the cover 
available to its policy holders to include additional provisions such as a clinical 
support team to provide advice without the need for a GP referral, an increased NHS 
cash benefit, and free private prescriptions. 
It was working hard to ensure customers were being given the necessary assistance 
to have their claims dealt with. So, if Mr K had actually made a claim that had been 
affected or delayed by the pandemic he should let it know. 
It would offer Mr K two months free on his policy as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr K rejected Sagas offer and cancelled his policy. He referred his complaint to this service 
and said hed been given information about the lack of private operations on good authority, 
from a friend who was a consultant surgeon in the private field. To put things right Mr K said 
Saga needed to offer him a much more realistic refund and reduce his monthly premiums 
until such a time that there was no longer a problem. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic was outside of Sagas control and although the services it ordinally provided had 
been affected, provisions had still been available to Mr K through his policy. 
Mr K disagreed. He said Saga had taken premiums knowing it could not deliver its 
contractual obligations and should have suspended the policy and collection of premiums. 
Mr K suggested our investigator liaise directly with any of the private hospitals or his 
consultant friend to investigate the matter further. And he explained his complaint concerned 
a matter of principle. 
Our investigator remained of the same opinion and so as no agreement was reached the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K clearly feels very strongly about his position and I appreciate the information he says 
he received from his friend. This decision will only address those matters I consider central 
to the outcome of Mr Ks complaint, it will not comment on every point raised. 
For the reasons Ill now explain I will not be upholding Mr Ks complaint about Saga:
It is well known that many private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I appreciate this would have temporarily had an 
impact on some of the services Saga was able to offer at the time. But given this 
was due to the unforeseen and unprecedented impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Im 
satisfied it was outside of Sagas control and I find it is not something it should be 
held accountable for. 
Saga has explained it didnt stop operating during the pandemic. It adjusted the cover 
available to policyholders and provided additional provisions such as a clinical 
support team to provide advice without the need for a GP referral, an increased NHS 
cash benefit, and free private prescriptions. So, I dont think it would be fair of me to 
conclude that Mr K was receiving no benefit from his policy during the relevant 
period. 
I understand that Mr K did not actually make a claim on his policy at the time. Had he 
found himself in the position of needing to do so, I would have expected Saga to 
make a reasonable effort to assist him in accessing treatment. But this is not a 
matter I need to consider here  theres no evidence that Mr K needed treatment 
through his policy which he could not then access, and it would appear that he did 
not suffer any detriment as a result of such a claim. 
Saga apologised to Mr K for any concern caused, and as a gesture of goodwill it 
offered him two months free on his policy. I appreciate Mr K chose not to take up 
Sagas offer and said it had taken his premiums under false pretences, but Im not 
persuaded it had done. Saga was still providing a service for those that needed 
access to treatment. It was offering enhanced provisions too. And there was no 
evidence that Mr K needed to access treatment through his Saga policy and was 
unable to do so. 
Insurance policies arent deigned to cover every eventually, they are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the policy term. 
Even if no successful claim is made during that time, an insurer is entitled to retain 
the benefit of the premium paid to it to cover that risk. I realise Mr K may be further 
disappointed by the above, but I dont think Saga needs to do anything further to 
settle this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman