DRN-2919976
The complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund a payment she 
disputes from her account.
What happened
Miss D disputed three debit card payments from her bank account made through an online 
shopping marketplace on 29 April 2020 which came to £194.50. She says she received a 
notification from the website that her marketplace account had been hacked. 
Halifax said that it raised chargebacks with the three merchants involved and that it received 
confirmation that the information used to make the payments matched that of Miss D. And 
that this included information that the delivery address was that of Miss D.
Our investigator received further information from Miss D about two of the payments which 
she passed to Halifax. One for £12.50 made at 20:11 that day appeared to be relating to 
purchase of a game code and the seller had been given a game ID and nickname for it to 
be credited to. And another for £120 made at 19:55 also related to a game that was for 
collection only. Halifax then agreed to refund these two with eight per cent simple interest.     
Miss D still wanted to pursue the other transaction for £62 made at 21:10 in this complaint.
The payment related to the purchase of tins of floor varnish that had been delivered to    
Miss Ds home. Miss D had said that she lived alone and that no one else had access to her 
account or phone or bank card. The varnish had been in her online shopping basket and the 
fraudster must have bought it to see if the transaction would go through. She said that she 
had tried to return it to the seller as it remains unopened but has been unsuccessful in doing 
so.
Our investigator didnt think that this payment was unauthorised. There had been a genuine 
conversation between Miss D and the merchant about buying a type of varnish confirmed in 
screen shots and Miss D had asked for advice. The payment was made after the others so 
wouldnt be the fraudster testing the account. And the items were sent to Miss Ds home 
address so would be of no benefit to anyone other than her. 
Miss D didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She provided details of her 
online exchanges with the vendor. And that she had reported things to Action Fraud and 
asked why she would otherwise go to all this trouble. She said she would swear on oath that 
she hadnt purchased this item either. She explained that there were various items in this 
shopping basket online and others but that was normal, and she was shopping around, and 
she wouldnt have bought these two different ones. She hadnt originally been told the times 
of the payments and thought that the fraudster might have been checking if the account was 
still working. This purchase was in a hidden folder like the other ones that night. None of 
her family visited her address at the time due to the coronavirus related lockdown. If she had 
intended to use the varnish she would have done so by now. All the details needed for this 
payment were stored in her online account and all the unauthorised payments were made on 
the same day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details as here. And if it wasnt 
authorised Miss D wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- How the payment disputed here was made.
- Did Miss D authorise the payment on the account?
We arent a court and we provide informal dispute resolution. I wont be able to say exactly 
what happened and I will be considering what is most likely. I am also now only being asked 
to make a finding about the payment of £62 that is in dispute. Ive noted that Halifax has 
refunded other payments made at that time. I have seen the audit information and am 
satisfied that this payment was made using Miss Ds debit card details through her online 
account with the marketplace.
The issue is whether Miss D consented to the payment. Miss D disputes that she intended to 
buy the floor varnish just because it was in her shopping basket. But I think that this shows 
that at the least she was interested in buying this or something similar. And as set out she 
did ask the seller a question about the product. 
I appreciate that she didnt know the times of the payments until the investigator told her. But 
now that she does I still dont think there is a credible explanation for why a fraudster would 
need to use these items as a test purchase. I take into account that this purchase did go 
through and that there were no further successful ones and also that earlier items had been 
purchased without any issues. 
Ive looked at the correspondence Miss D had with the seller and I can see that the seller 
asked her to refuse to accept the goods so they would be sent back. And then said a return 
label wouldnt be sent as Miss D had received the goods and not returned them before a 
chargeback was raised. Communication between them broke down and Miss D refused to 
pay for the return herself saying these items were still in her shed unused. The point is that 
Miss D maintains she didnt order the items.
The response to the chargeback shows that the order originated from an IP address 
associated with genuine use of Miss Ds account before. Her other information matched and 
as is agreed the items were delivered to her. As Ive said I need to think about what is most 
likely. Having done so I am not persuaded that this payment wasnt authorised. I see no 
reason why someone expert enough to hack into her account would buy goods of interest 
to Miss D. And would forgo the opportunity to access other items that would be of benefit to 
a fraudster. Miss Ds online account wasnt blocked at the point of this payment. Miss D also 
received the goods. I am not persuaded on balance that she didnt consent to this specific 
payment. And so, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything further. I know how disappointed 
she will be by my conclusion here.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax need now take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman