DRN-3669263
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments she didnt make. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these are unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), it refused to refund them because it 
asserted Ms G failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep her personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Ms G failed with 
gross negligence. Or, in other words, that she acted with a very significant degree of 
carelessness; seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done. Ill explain why.
While the call came from a private number, Ms G recalled that they provided 
personal information about her and took her through what seemed to be routine 
security questions. They explained how shed fallen victim to a phishing text scam 
(which Ms G had genuinely responded to)  and listed transactions and asked what 
ones she recognised. They also gave her information about how to be wary of future 
scams. 
Given the personal information they knew and the familiar environment they created, 
I can see why she believed they were genuinely from her bank  I think lots of people 
wouldve done.
Over the course of the call, Ms G shared her PIN  they told her it had been 
fraudulently changed by the scammer and shed need to provide it to verify who she 
was and to change it back.  
Monzo said she shouldve known not to share this with someone over the phone  
its pointed to literature and adverts about this. But Ive considered that Ms G didnt 
believe she was just speaking with someone  she trusted she was talking with her 
bank whod created a plausible reason to share the information. And she was acting 
in the heat of the moment with the fear that shed been scammed. In this context, I 
can see why she followed their instructions believing she was protecting her account. 
I dont think she showed a very significant degree of carelessness. 
Ms G also forwarded a link she received by email  this, along with the PIN, allowed 
someone to log into her account on a different device. Shes explained that she did 
this because she was told theyd need to access her account to change her PIN 
back. 
Monzo submitted that she ought to have been put off by the warning not to forward 
the email (even to them)  and Ive noted it was forwarded to a Gmail address, albeit 
with a Monzo related username. Ive considered Ms Gs explanation  she said the 
caller was impatient, so she didnt fully process the warning at the time. And that she 
was trying to be as helpful and accommodating as possible, thinking it was to fix the 
issues caused by the previous scam. She also felt she didnt have a reason to 
disbelieve them at the time, given everything they knew about her. 
Ive also considered how the timing of the email wouldve seemed reassuring  after 
all, she was told to expect an email by who she thought was Monzo and she 
subsequently received an email from Monzo. 
Taking this all into account  the pressure she was placed under and her belief she 
was talking with her trusted bank to protect her account  Im not persuaded that Ms 
G seriously disregarded an obvious risk by forwarding the link.
It follows that I dont think she failed with gross negligence to keeps her personalised 
security details safe or to comply with the terms of her account. So I conclude that 
she isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
In line with the PSRs, Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner and thats 
caused Ms G to worry about her finances and at times, not meet her basic needs. 
Ive also noted she shared a health disorder that made the process difficult for her  
but Monzo didnt meaningfully respond to this. So, in line with the investigators 
recommendation, I also award a total of £250 to reflect her non-financial losses (this 
includes the £160 Monzo has already awarded).
I also share the investigators concerns that Monzo ought to have been worried about 
the activity on Ms Gs account  a new device was added, a new payment method 
set up and 12 payments were made (many for the same amount) in the space of 
around 30 minutes. But given my conclusion under the PSRs, Ive not explored this 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Gs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Ms G the total of the unauthorised transactions (which I understand to be 
£5,381.70), less any amount recovered or refunded. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay a total of £250 for Ms Gs distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman