DRN-3349326
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) lost his account passbook which 
contained personal and financial information.
What happened
YBS returned Mr Hs account passbook to him by posting it in the mail. Unfortunately, the 
passbook never arrived at Mr Hs address. Mr H wasnt happy about this, especially as the 
passbook contained personal and financial information, which Mr H was concerned may be 
read by whomever the passbook ended up with. So, he raised a complaint.
YBS looked at Mr Hs complaint. They didnt feel that they could be held responsible for the 
non-delivery of the passbook in the mail, but they accepted that some of the service  that 
theyd provided to Mr H in relation to this matter wasnt to the standard that they aspired to. 
Because of this, YBS apologised to Mr H and made a payment of £100 to him by way of 
compensation and to cover any costs that Mr H may have incurred.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that YBSs response to Mr Hs 
complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr H has stated that he feels that YBS have 
breached data protection regulations by way of what has occurred here. It isnt within the 
remit of this service to decide whether such regulations have been breached or not  that 
would be the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As such, if Mr H wishes 
to pursue this aspect of his complaint, he may want to contact the ICO directly.
I can appreciate how Mr H might be unhappy that his account passbook wasnt received by 
him having been posted to him by YBS. But it seems clear that YBS did post the passbook 
to Mr Hs correct address, and this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-
delivery of correctly addressed mail. This is because once mail has been posted, its outside 
a businesses control as to whether that mail is correctly delivered by a postal service or not.
Im aware that Mr H feels that YBS should have sent the passbook to him via recorded 
delivery, which would have allowed the delivery to have been tracked and would have 
reduced (but not eliminated) the possibility that the delivery might be lost. 
I can understand Mr Hs position here, but it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a 
business how to conduct its operations, and I dont feel that its fair or realistic to expect YBS 
to issue all post that contains personal information  which given the nature of YBS as a 
business would be the majority of its outward post  by recorded delivery, as this would be 
prohibitively expensive and have a significant effect on YBSs ability to operate 
competitively. It also must be noted that YBS are under no obligation or requirement to issue 
such post via recorded delivery as Mr H would like.
Unfortunately, it can be the case that correctly addressed post isnt received by the intended 
recipient, which can lead to a necessary degree of inconvenience for the affected customer. 
In such circumstances, it would be expected that the business would take the necessary 
steps to help the affected customer protect themselves, where required, and to ensure that 
the customer didnt incur any additional inconvenience beyond that which is reasonably 
necessary in the circumstances.
I think YBS have done that here. I say this because the £100 that they paid to Mr H included 
£25 to cover the cost of a fraud protection registration so as to potentially reduce Mr Hs 
concerns about his personal information coming into the possession of unintended 
recipients, as well as £40 to cover the costs of Mr Hs time and the telephone calls that hed 
had to make to YBS when trying to resolve the matter.
This seems fair to me, and while Im aware that Mr H feels that a greater amount of 
compensation should be merited in this instance, Im satisfied that the response that YBS 
have already issued to Mr H does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to what has 
taken place, including in regard to the compensation and costs amounts already paid, and I 
can confirm that the total award of £100 is commensurate with what I would have instructed 
YBS to pay here, had they not already done so. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but it follows from what Ive 
explained above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing YBS to take any 
further action at this time. I hope that Mr H will understand, given all that Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman