DRN-1234830
The complaint
In summary, Mrs H is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc refused to issue her a cheque from a 
savings account she held with it.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs H visited a branch of TSB. She asked for a cheque to be drawn on her 
savings accounts. TSBs procedures required her to provide photo ID. This was because 
there hadnt been a debit on either account for 12 months. 
Mrs H wasnt able to provide the ID documentation that TSB required, so it wouldnt issue a 
cheque to her at that time.
Mrs H was upset with how TSB had treated her and complained to it. In response it 
explained why it needed identification document from her. It accepted not everyone held the 
documentation it required and said that it would learn from her experience with it. It also 
accepted that it didnt handle her request with the compassion she deserved. And it said it 
would pay her a total of £105 for her telephone expenses and inconvenience.
Mrs H wasnt happy with TSBs response. Her complaint was looked into by one of our 
investigators, who explained why she thought TSBs offer was fair. Mrs H didnt agree with 
her opinion so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to acknowledge that when Mrs H visited the branch 
of TSB, she had recently suffered a bereavement. And I would like to express my 
condolences for her loss. It was clearly a very difficult time for her, and I can understand why 
she was upset by her experience at the branch.
 
But in considering the concerns she has raised, I need to think about whether TSB has done 
anything wrong in the way it dealt with her request to withdraw funds from her accounts. 
TSB is obliged to have procedures in place to be able to identify its customers. This is to 
comply with anti-money laundering regulations but also to protect its customers money. I can 
only look into Mrs Hs complaint. I dont have the authority to tell TSB what identification 
checks and procedures it should implement. 
TSB has explained why it needed to verify Mrs Hs identity before it could issue a cheque 
from either of her accounts. And I can understand it was frustrating for Mrs H that she wasnt 
able to draw a cheque at that time and that she didnt have the identity documents on her 
when she went into the branch. But I cant say from everything Ive seen that TSB did 
anything wrong by asking her to provide identity documents. And the purpose of doing so 
was to protect her accounts from fraud. 
But TSB has recognised and acknowledged that it could have handled Mrs Hs meeting with 
it more sympathetically. And I do think it could have done more to provide her with other 
options, particularly as it understood what she had recently been through and the purpose of 
the cheque she was wanting to draw. I think its right that it has acknowledged that there are 
lessons to be learnt from Mrs Hs experience with it. 
Ive thought carefully about the offer it has made to Mrs H for the telephone costs and upset 
and inconvenience she incurred. Having taken into account what Mrs H has said about the 
impact of all of this on her, and that TSB wasnt wrong to ask her for photo ID  I think the 
£105 offered by TSB is fair and reasonable compensation. 
My final decision
TSB Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs H £105 to settle the complaint and I 
think the offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that if Mrs H accepts my decision, TSB Bank Plc should pay Mrs H £105, 
only if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman