DRN-2434525
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed his bank account. And wont 
explain why. 
What happened
Mr B had a current account with Monzo.
Monzo decided to review how Mr B was operating his account. Whilst it conducted its review 
the bank blocked Mr Bs account. The bank released Mr Bs closing balance to him on 27th 
July 2020. 
Mr B complained to Monzo. He said the bank didnt tell him it had blocked his account and 
he only found out when he tried to use his account.  Monzo said it had acted in accordance 
with the terms of the account and relevant regulations. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said Monzo 
hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Bs account. And wasnt obliged 
to provide Mr B with an explanation.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He wants the bank to explain why it no longer 
wants him as a customer. And he wants the bank to reopen his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Monzo has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Monzo didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Monzo to block Mr Bs account. Monzo has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr B inconvenience, I 
cant say Monzo treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
I understand Mr B wants Monzo to explain the reason it applied the block to his account. But 
Monzo doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under 
no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Bs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Bs account immediately. In my view that was reasonable given the banks 
concerns about how Mr B was operating his account. So, it was entitled to close the account 
as it has already done. Ive also noted that Mr B had at least one other bank account. And 
returned his closing balance to him within 3 days. So, I think the impact on him would have 
been reduced. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr B when Monzo blocked and closed 
his account. And didnt release funds to him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I dont believe Monzo acted unreasonably or treated Mr B unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman