DRN-2872178
The complaint
Mr B complains that his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), has unfairly 
declined his claim for a burglary at his homey under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with RSA in October 2019 and notified a burglary at his home to RSA 
via a broker in August 2020. He said his familys home was ransacked and over £40,000 
worth of possessions were stolen. Mr B said police and forensics attended.  
RSA appointed loss adjusters and an investigator to deal with the claim. RSAs investigator 
spoke to Mr B and pursued enquiries with Mr Bs broker.  
Mr B said there were months of delay from RSA until its investigators claimed that he hadnt 
disclosed a previous claim with another insurer. Mr B said he had disclosed all information 
upfront with his insurance broker and asked RSA to get evidence from them. He said RSA 
didnt obtain the information and declined his claim without any further investigation. 
RSA said that when Mr B applied for the policy, hed confirmed he hadnt made a claim in 
the previous two years and it applied a two-year no claims discount to his premium. But it 
discovered during its investigation that Mr B had made two previous claims with another 
insurer, firstly in March 2017 for theft with a payment of £1,617, and secondly in April 2018 
for loss of personal possessions with a payment of £436.27. Mr B had also made a 
substantial claim for loss of possessions in 2015, but this was outside of the period about 
which he was questioned.
Mr B complained to RSA that its handling and decisions on his claim had caused financial 
loss and stress leading to major health issues for him. He said RSA was in breach of the 
regulations concerning insurers handling of claims and had made it more difficult for him to 
obtain alternative insurance cover.
RSA said the underlying principal to insurance contracts is the continuing duty of "utmost 
good faith", which requires honesty and openness from insurers and policyholders. RSA said 
Mr B was in breach of this duty.
RSA said its clear that Mr B hadnt complied with the requirements of the policy by failing to 
disclose the previous claims. RSA said had they been aware of Mr Bs claims history his 
application for the policy would have been refused. At the end of October 2020 RSA told Mr 
B that it had avoided the policy from inception (treated it as if it never existed), returned his 
premiums and would not consider the claim. RSA paid Mr B £150 compensation for some 
delays that it said were beyond its control and a delay in providing its final response to his 
complaint.
Mr B was unhappy with RSAs response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr B had made two 
previous claims, which RSA was unaware of, and it wasnt responsible for the questions 
asked by Mr Bs broker. He said RSAs underwriting guidelines show it wouldnt have offered 
Mr B a policy had it known about the previous claims
Our investigator said he agreed with RSA that Mr B had made a careless misrepresentation 
and that the law stipulated that RSA was fair to avoid the policy and should return Mr Bs 
premiums. He said the compensation of £150 RSA paid Mr B for the delays was fair.
Mr B said he didnt accept the investigators view and a legal specialist advised him he could 
still pursue RSA for the claim. He said RSA relied on the broker as agent to gather the 
information it required, and it should have checked this for itself and hadnt performed due 
diligence. Mr B said he hadnt lied or misrepresented his position and he requested an 
ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B thinks that RSA has unfairly avoided his policy and declined his claim. RSA say that it 
has avoided Mr Bs policy for misrepresentation and doesnt need to deal with his claim. 
I can see from the records that Mr Bs policy wasnt sold to him by RSA, though RSA 
underwrites the policy and decided to avoid it and not deal with Mr Bs claim. I understand 
that Mr B has brought a separate complaint about the broker who sold him the policy.
Mr Bs policy states: In deciding to accept this policy and in setting the terms and premium, 
we have relied on the information you have given us. You must take care when answering 
any questions that, we ask by ensuring that all information provided is accurate and 
complete if we establish that you carelessly provided us with false or misleading 
information it could adversely affect your policy and any claim.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
RSA thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
wrongly stated in his application that he hadnt made any claims in the previous two years. 
RSA points out that Mr B made two separate claims in this period.
Mr B took out his policy through an insurance broker and his information was passed on to 
RSA. Its normal for an insurer to accept the validity of information received in this way 
without making further checks and we dont think this is unreasonable. Following Mr Bs 
claim RSA made checks and discovered that he had made two previous claims within the 
two years before his policy began.
 Ive looked at the question asked about claims and Mr Bs insurance record and have seen 
the details of these claims. The test of reasonable care is that of the reasonable consumer, 
so I need to consider what a reasonable consumer would have done in the circumstances. I 
understand that Mr B said he passed information about his claims to his broker. But Im 
satisfied that the claims werent disclosed to RSA when Mr Bs policy incepted as RSA 
wouldnt have applied a no claims discount for the period if they had been, and so Mr Bs 
position was misrepresented to RSA. 
I think there was sufficient information provided to Mr B for him to know that his previous 
claims had not been disclosed. I therefore dont think that Mr B took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation in his insurance application.
I now need to go on to consider whether Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying 
misrepresentation, namely whether it would have made a difference to what RSA would 
have done had it know the correct information.
RSA said that they wouldnt have offered Mr B cover had it known about his previous claims 
as this is outside of its appetite for risk. This is a commercial decision that an insurer is 
entitled to make about its business. Ive looked at the underwriting criteria used by RSA and 
this is clear that a prospective policyholder in Mr Bs situation wouldnt have been offered 
cover. This means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
RSA said that Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless, and I agree. As Im satisfied Mr Bs 
misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions RSA can take in 
accordance with CIDRA. Im satisfied RSA was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in accordance 
with CIDRA. As this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, RSA doesnt have to 
deal with his claim following the burglary.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and the insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the policy and retain the 
premiums. If the misrepresentation was careless, then an insurer may avoid the policy if it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation but must return 
the premiums to the policyholder. Consequently, if it hasnt already done so RSA must return 
the insurance premiums Mr B has paid to him. 
I havent seen a reasonable explanation from Mr B about why he didnt declare his previous 
claims to RSA. Im satisfied RSA wouldnt have offered Mr B cover had it known the correct 
position on his claims and so for these reasons, I think RSA acted fairly in avoiding Mr Bs 
policy and not settling his claim.
Ive also looked at the time RSA took to deal with Mr Bs claim. It is common practice for 
insurers to verify a claim before paying out. I dont think RSAs investigation of the claim and 
requirements for information were exceptional or unreasonable. I can see for the first two 
months it was pursuing enquiries with Mr Bs broker and wasnt responsible for the brokers 
delays. RSA has acknowledged that it caused some delay, including its response to his 
complaint and I think its compensation of £150 is fair in respect of this.
I sympathise with Mr B for the health problems he has said that he suffered. However, all in 
all, I think RSA gathered and considered the evidence surrounding Mr Bs claim thoroughly 
and fairly and I think its decision to avoid his policy and not deal with the claim was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and in accordance with the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman