DRN-3732123
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit limit 
on his account.
What happened
Mr P received a letter from Barclays advising him that the credit limit on his account was 
being reduced from £10,000 to £100. Mr P wasnt happy about this and felt that there wasnt 
anything in his personal or financial circumstances to warrant such a reduction. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ps complaint. They confirmed that it was within the terms of the credit 
account that Barclays could reduce the credit limit if they saw fit, and so they didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly towards Mr P by doing so. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr P in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Mr P feels very strongly about this issue, including that his 
general creditworthiness is such that theres no reason Barclays should have made the 
decision to reduce the credit limit as they did.
However, it must be acknowledged that a credit limit isnt a right that a customer has. 
Instead, its provided to a customer at the discretion of a credit provider such as Barclays, 
who retain the right to reduce the amount of credit theyre willing to offer to a customer, 
should they make the decision to do so.
To that effect, the terms of the Barclays credit account include the following:
If we reduce the credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, 
we have the right not to give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). 
We wont reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any 
transactions authorised but not yet charged to your account.
In their letter to Mr P about the credit limit decrease, Barclays explained the various factors 
that could have influenced their decision. These included a review of Mr Ps credit file, as 
well as whether Barclays felt Mr P could reasonably afford the credit amount previously 
provided to him. 
Im aware that Mr P would like a more detailed explanation of why Barclays decided to lower 
the credit limit on his account. But credit providers arent obliged to inform account holders of 
the details of their reasoning as Mr P would like. 
One reason for this is because how a business assesses creditworthiness and affordability is 
commercially sensitive information. This is because if detailed explanations of how a 
business conducts such assessments were made public, it could increase the risk that future 
credit applicants might attempt to circumnavigate those assessments in order to obtain credit 
they might otherwise not be approved for.
However, while its written into the terms of Barclays credit account that Barclays can lower 
the credit limit if they see fit to do so, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that Barclays 
have acted fairly by reducing the credit limit on Mr Ps account in this specific instance. This 
is because it can be the case that the terms of an account can be applied in an unfair 
manner. I can understand how Mr P might have concerns about this, especially as he hasnt 
received an explanation as to exactly how Barclays made the decision that they did.
To that end, Barclays have provided a more detailed explanation of why they made the 
decision to lower the credit limit on Mr Ps account to this service. And while Im not liberty to 
divulge this information to Mr P, for the reasons explained above, I can confirm that having 
considered Barclays explanation, Im satisfied that Barclays decision is reasonable and 
aligned with what Ive explained above. And Im also satisfied that Barclays havent acted 
unfairly towards Mr P by making the decision to lower the credit limit on his account as they 
have. I hope that Mr P finds some comfort in knowing that someone impartial has considered 
this point on his behalf.  
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I 
hope that Mr P will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman