DRN-3784268
The complaint
Mr B mainly complains that Nationwide Building Society delayed actioning his ISA transfer 
request for 18 days, during which time the value of his stocks and shares ISA fell, resulting 
in a loss in value of more than £500. He wants to be reimbursed for his investment loss. 
He is also unhappy about the length of time it took Nationwide to respond to a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR). 
He feels the significant distress and inconvenience all this has caused him, plus his time 
spent dealing with the matter, warrants a significant compensation payment. 
What happened
On 10 September 2021, Mr B completed the necessary transfer-in request paperwork at a 
Nationwide branch to start the process of transferring his existing stocks and shares ISA 
held with another provider (Ill call this provider A) to a Nationwide Cash ISA. 
The transfer completed on 7 October 2021 when Nationwide credited the cheque it had 
received for the transfer amount to Mr Bs Cash ISA.
Later that same month, Mr B made a DSAR to Nationwide, which he had to chase up when 
he didnt hear back. 
Meanwhile, provider A had told Mr B it wasnt responsible for any delay during the transfer 
process  it said Nationwide had sent an email requesting the transfer late in the day on 
28 September 2021 and it had actioned this the next day. 
This prompted Mr B to complain to Nationwide on 5 January 2022 about how long the 
transfer had taken and also about its delay actioning his DSAR. 
Nationwide upheld Mr Bs complaint. It acknowledged it had been responsible for some 
shortcomings in the service it had provided to Mr B. It said it had failed to chase up the 
transfer request within its usual 9 day timescale after it had sent this to provider A on 
10 September 2021. Also, that it hadnt initially responded to Mr Bs DSAR or his complaint 
letter even though its records showed both his letters had been received. Nationwide said it 
was really sorry that Mr B had trouble with his ISA transfer-in and offered him £75 redress. 
Mr B didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator felt that the redress paid by Nationwide wasnt enough to reflect the full 
extent of the impact on Mr B of Nationwides service failings and she suggested that 
Nationwide should pay Mr B as follows:
 the difference in the value of the ISA between 20 September 2021 (the next working 
day for provider A to action the transfer request if Nationwide had chased when it should 
have) and 29 September 2021 (when provider A placed the transactions), to put Mr B in 
the position he would have been if Nationwide had followed its procedures and chased 
provider A after 9 days.
 £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In response, Nationwide said even though it hadnt chased provider A within its own 
timescale of 9 days, it was unfair to hold Nationwide fully liable for any difference in value, 
given the evidence showing it had sent the initial ISA transfer request on 10 September 
2021. Nationwide offered to pay half of the value of any investment loss evidenced  plus 
the £150 suggested by the investigator.
Mr B wasnt prepared to settle on the basis of Nationwides offer so our investigator made 
some further enquiries of Nationwide and she issued a second view.  
In brief summary, she said:
Nationwide had provided evidence and confirmed the initial request was sent to 
provider A electronically on 10 September 2021. Whilst this wasnt included in the 
DSAR information Mr B had received, she hadnt seen anything to suggest 
Nationwide didnt send the request on that day.
Nationwide chased provider A on 28 September 2021 and provider A sold Mr Bs 
holdings the next day and started the transfer process to Nationwide.
Nationwide acknowledged it should have chased provider A on the 9th day of the 
request, in line with its internal procedures. Had this happened, looking at the usual 
timescale, provider A would have sold Mr Bs ISA holdings on 20th September 2021. 
So this is the date she had asked Nationwide to use to compare the price when 
working out whether Mr B would have received more than he did when his holdings 
were actually sold.
Mr B had got a better price on 29 September 2021 than the price he would have got 
had Nationwide chased on time and his holdings been sold on 20 September 2021, 
so there wasnt a price difference Nationwide needed to compensate Mr B for.
Mr B encountered difficulties when making a DSAR and raising his complaint so she 
continued to recommend that Nationwide should pay £150 to Mr B for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr B still feels the evidence is contradictory, that Nationwide hasnt proved that it was 
provider A and not Nationwide who was responsible for the delay and his view is that its 
unlikely that provider A wouldnt have actioned a transfer request sent on 10 September 
2021. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I do appreciate how strongly Mr B feels about this complaint. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything Mr B has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. But I will 
comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint and try and 
deal with his main complaint issues.  
Mr Bs main complaint, as I understand it, is about the length of time it took for his ISA 
transfer request to be completed. He believes the transfer was unreasonably delayed, 
causing him to lose out financially, and that Nationwide is to blame. So Ill deal with this 
first.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our website which 
explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach. 
Nationwide has sent a screenshot from its records which shows the transfer request was 
scanned onto its internal system on 10 September 2021. 
Nationwide has said once the case is scanned on our internal system the request is sent 
out. 
It has specifically confirmed that the case information wouldnt have been scanned 
without the request being sent.
Part of the process at the start also involved a letter being generated to Mr B. Nationwides 
records show the letter was sent and this isnt in dispute - Mr B told us that he did receive a 
letter dated 10 September 2021 from Nationwide confirming contact with provider A and 
telling him the transfer was underway.
On balance, this evidence leads me to find it is more likely than not that Nationwide did 
send the initial transfer request to provider A on the date recorded in its records  
10 September 2021. 
I dont know what happened to the request after Nationwide sent it. But the fact that 
provider A told Mr B that the first contact it received about this was on 28 September 2021 
isnt a good enough reason for me to say that Nationwide didnt send the first request to 
provider A when it says it did. And nothing else I've seen is enough to rebut this conclusion 
and enable me to uphold Mr Bs complaint that Nationwide delayed actioning his initial 
transfer request on 10 September.
Nationwide has acknowledged that it should have chased up the request on the ninth day 
when it didnt hear back from provider A. But this makes no overall difference to the 
outcome. I say this because HMRC guidance states that an ISA transfer like this should 
take no longer than 30 calendar days  and Mr Bs transfer did complete within that 
timescale in any event, irrespective of Nationwides failure to follow its own process with 
regard to chasing up the request. And it appears that Mr B got a better price on 
29 September 2021 when his assets sold, compared to the price he would have achieved 
had Nationwide chased on time and his holdings had been sold on 20 September. 
I appreciate that Mr B takes a different view about the way investment loss should be 
worked out. But given that Nationwide should have chased things up on 19 September and 
provider A sold his holdings the following day when Nationwide re-sent the transfer request, 
to my mind 20 September is a fair comparison date. So, for all the reasons I have set out, 
I cant fairly award Mr B the compensation he would like for what he considers his 
investment loss to be.   But I've carefully taken into account the frustration Mr B undoubtedly experienced as a 
result of Nationwides admitted service failings and the extra trouble he was put to having to 
chase things up in order to progress his DSAR in particular. Mr B sent a letter dated 
18 October 2021 making his DSAR request and he was fairly entitled to expect this would 
be responded to within a month. When that didnt happen, Mr B phoned Nationwide on 
19 November 2021. He received Nationwides response to his DSAR on 18 December 
2021. 
Nationwide accepted the investigators recommendation that £150 more fairly reflected the 
impact on Mr B of its service failings in this regard  and I agree. There was no question 
that Nationwide didnt safely receive Mr Bs original DSAR request. And I've kept in mind 
also that Nationwide has also acknowledged that it couldnt find Mr Bs original complaint 
letter even though its checks showed this had been received.  
    
To sum up, I find that:
£150 is fair redress to reflect the impact on Mr B of the admitted shortcomings on the 
part of Nationwide and the poor service issues I have mentioned above. 
As I havent seen enough to show that Mr B has suffered any investment loss or that 
hes lost out in money terms any other way, Im not telling Nationwide to do anything 
further. Putting things right
Nationwide should pay Mr B £150 in total to put things right (so if it has paid any of the 
redress it has previously offered or agreed to pay, Nationwide should now pay any balance 
owing in order to bring total redress to £150).  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to make a payment to Mr B 
so that he receives total compensation of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman