DRN-2248233
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy as they say theyd never asked Lynden Ltd trading as 
FindYourPPI (FYP) to act for them in a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim with one of 
their lenders. And the signature FYP say is Mrs S, she said  wasnt done by her.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs S was told by her lender, Ill call R that she had a successful PPI 
claim, and the amount of compensation shed receive. And shortly after FYP asked her to 
pay their fee for the successful claim. Mrs S said Mr S had been told by FYP that they 
couldnt progress his claim with lender R and that he needed to make the claim directly 
with them himself. And so she was surprised to get the request for payment from FYP as 
she said shed never asked FYP to act on her behalf to make this PPI claim. Mr and Mrs S 
complained to FYP.
FYP said both Mr and Mrs S had asked them to investigate several of their lenders, including 
lender R. FYP said Mr S had signed up for their services in April 2019. And Mrs S had first 
enquired about making a claim in June 2019. In July 2019, FYP said Mrs S signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) for lender R, authorising them to act on her behalf.
FYP said they couldnt continue to progress Mr S claim with lender R as the terms and 
conditions he had signed up to required him to return documentation to them, which he 
hadnt done. They advised him, as it was close to the PPI August 2019 deadline, to claim 
direct with lender R. And that they hadnt charged Mr S any fee for his successful claim.
Mrs S hadnt returned the PPI questionnaire either to FYP. But they said Mrs S had signed 
her agreement after June 2019, and her agreement acknowledged that with the August 2019 
deadline approaching for making PPI claims it wasnt unusual for lenders to investigate the 
claim without the need for a completed questionnaire. And this is what had happened with 
Mrs S claim with lender R, theyd investigated her claim from the information supplied by 
FYP. They also said Mrs S hadnt cancelled the agreement shed made them within the 14-
day cooling off period. And as her claim was successful, FYP said their fee was due. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with FYPs response and referred their complaint to us. Mrs S 
said the success of the claim was because Mr S had made the claim direct with lender R. 
And when she asked FYP why theyd invoiced her for their fee, they said shed signed an 
agreement for another lender  Ill call lender B,  that allowed them to claim their fee for 
any successful claims she had with any of her other lenders. Mrs S didnt think this was fair 
or made clear in any of the information provided by FYP.
Our investigator said FYP had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. He said Mrs S had authorised them to act on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled 
the agreement. He said FYP could charge their success fee.
Mrs S didnt agree and reiterated that she hadnt authorised FYP to act on her behalf  for 
lender R. And that the only LoA shed signed was for lender B,and not the LoA dated July 
2019 for lender R. She also said her lender hadnt copied FYP into their offer letter which 
she said showed the claim had been made direct to them and not through FYP. She asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide, where the level of proof needed is beyond reasonable doubt. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This means were 
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story 
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision 
on what I think most likely happened  the balance of probability.
I can understand Mrs Ss frustration as she is adamant, she hasnt asked FYP to act for her 
in making a PPI claim with lender R. So, Ive considered whether Mrs S authorised FYP to 
act for her in submitting a PPI claim. And if she did, whether she let them know she no 
longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether FYP has acted fairly and reasonably 
in their actions.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. As a 
result, FTR amended their terms and conditions to reflect an auto-convert process.
FYP has shown they opened a case for Mrs S in June 2019 with details of several of her 
lenders including lender R. And a LoA for lender R was signed and dated 1 July 2019. 
The LoA had the incorrect date of birth for Mrs S but this was corrected and shows Mrs S 
initials for the correction. The other personal details in this agreement correlate with the 
personal details Mrs S has given this service. 
I know Mrs S has said the only agreement shed signed was for lender B and I can see this 
was done in August 2019. But I can see FYP forwarded Mrs S information to lender R in 
July 2019, and lender R responded in August 2019 to show Mrs S had PPI. So I have no 
reason to doubt there was a LoA for lender R completed and signed in July 2019.
The LoA says:
Due to the closeness of the 29 August PPI deadline, in the event of PPI being found, I also 
give consent to Lynden Ltd t/as FindYourPPI to act on my behalf in relation to mis-sold 
financial products and claims against the Finance Company as instructed. 
And highlighted just above the signature area:
This is a Letter of Authority for a PPI information request, Subject Access Request under 
the GDPR and , where applicable, Auto Conversion PPI Claim
But in mid-August 2019, after lender R confirmed Mrs S did have PPI she was asked by 
FYP to complete and return a PPI questionnaire and to sign another LoA. FYP explained 
that the lender could investigate without the questionnaire but said:We may be able to submit your PPI claim even if you have not fully completed Section F  
but we cannot proceed if our Agreement Form is not correctly signed.
Mrs S didnt complete or return the forms. I can see Mr S was also asked around this time to 
complete and return the questionnaire but he was also told specifically that FYP couldnt 
proceed with his claim and that he needed to make the claim himself. FYP had individually 
kept Mr and Mrs S updated about their claims and it was only Mr S that was told they 
couldnt proceed with his claim, not Mrs S. But I can understand why Mrs S would have 
thought her claim wouldnt progress as it was inferred her claim wouldnt proceed without her 
signing the LoA sent to her at this time.
Mr S went on to complete the questionnaire for himself only directly with lender R. I havent 
seen any evidence that Mrs S made a claim direct with them. And if Mrs S was certain she 
hadnt asked FYP to make a claim on her behalf to lender R she could have taken this 
opportunity to ask FYP about their involvement or whether she needed as Mr S to make a 
claim herself.
As FYP had a LoA dated July 2019, I dont think it was enough by Mrs S disengaging with 
FYP to consider this as her cancelling this agreement with them. I cant see any evidence 
that despite opportunities for Mrs S to speak to or get in touch with FYP, it wasnt until after 
her claim was successful that she questioned their involvement.  
I have also looked at the LoA Mrs S isnt disputing that she signed just prior to the 29 August 
2019 deadline for lender B. The LoA doesnt make any reference to the closeness of the 
PPI deadline. But the LoA does say:
By signing below, I confirm that I have read and agree to FindYourPPIs terms and 
conditions and Privacy Policy enclosed. I understand that FindYourPPI charges 20% + VAT 
(24% inc VAT) on the cash in hand compensation I receive as a result of FindYourPPIs 
work and that this may arise from other Credit Agreements not listed above. I understand 
that I should resolve any queries I may have about the terms before signing this document.
FYP said this gave them authorisation for all of Mrs S lenders, and have also shown their 
terms and conditions say: 
On submission of a PPI claim, your Finance Company may offer you PPI compensation for 
other Credit Agreements you have had with them. Our fees are applied to any offer of 
compensation that you have received from any Finance Company as a result of our 
work. This also includes any delayed compensation you may receive after our arrangement 
is finalised.
And I think have drawn attention to the specific details about other finance companies by 
highlighting this section. The terms and conditions go on to say:
 You have 14 days from the date of signing the Agreement Form to cancel your agreement 
with no charge, under our cooling off period.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs S asked FYP to cancel her agreement. And lender R 
wouldnt have looked at the mis-selling complaint without a claim being made before the 
August 2019 deadline for making such claims. 
And in October 2019, lender R told Mrs S that she had been mis-sold PPI and the offer of 
compensation being made to her. Mrs S said lender R had only told her and not FYP, but 
this wasnt the case as I can see lender R also sent a copy of the letter to FYP. I think this 
shows they saw FYP as Mrs S representative. The agreement Mrs S had with FYP was based on a No Win No Fee. This means FYP 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually 
undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, FYPs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Mrs S claim was successful, 
and FYPs fees were charged in line with what Mrs S agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats 
in place for PPI claims.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the evidence 
provided I think FYP had been authorised to act on her behalf to pursue her claim for mis-
sold PPI.  And she didnt cancel her agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off 
period. So, I think FYP has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they can 
charge their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman