DRN-4005612
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a payment she didnt make from her 
account.
What happened
Miss T explains that after a night out with friends she became separated from them and 
having been drinking was feeling physically and mentally unwell. A man who approached her 
said he would help her find her friends and get a taxi. He took her mobile and put it up 
against her face, she says accessing facial recognition. She got her phone back and later 
found that a payment had been made for £3,000 which she had no knowledge of. She thinks 
that this was made using facial recognition and wants this to be refunded. Shes reported 
what happened to the police.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the payment. The app was used to log in to Miss Ts 
account using facial recognition. But the payment request was authorised by Miss Ts online 
banking security number being entered. It didnt accept that the payment was made without 
her knowledge as there was no point of compromise of that number.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The device Miss T had 
registered for mobile banking was used to make this payment. A security number would be 
required to set up this new payee. There was no evidence of how a third party could have 
discovered that. She reviewed videos sent in by Miss T of her partner sending money to a 
payee from a different Santander account using the app on a phone. Miss T said that this 
showed that facial recognition could be used instead of the security number. But our 
investigator noted the information from Santander was that this was a payment to an existing 
payee and not to a new one and so didnt assist here. 
Miss T didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that using facial 
recognition or a one-time passcode to the same device didnt represent strong customer 
authentication. Miss T maintained that all that was required to set up a transfer to a new 
account was facial recognition. And it was up to Santander to ensure that a payment was 
authorised. Miss T maintained that this payment wasnt and should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security information. And if it wasnt 
authorised Miss T wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- How was this payment made?
- Did Miss T authorise the payment on the account?
Im going to start by considering the systems audit information provided by Santander. Im 
satisfied that the relevant log in to Miss Ts account using the mobile app was just after 
01:00 on 24 September 2022. And that this log in was made using facial recognition as I 
can see the specific code on the reports. The payment here was confirmed using strong 
customer authentication at just before 01:06. Again, from the reports I can see a code 
confirming that this required the security number on the account. For completeness Miss T 
has shown she didnt receive any one-time passcode to her mobile. And the reports from 
Santander show that no text message was then sent to her at this time. I note from the 
history of this case that the specific part of the reports relevant here was highlighted by 
Santander after Miss T had sent in the video recordings our investigator has referred to. I 
dont need to make any findings about those given this audit information. But in any event I 
have seen the information that the payment involved in the videos related to an existing 
beneficiary and it seems did require a second scan of the account holders face when this 
payment was authorised. 
Im satisfied that the disputed payment from Miss Ts account was authenticated. I need to 
consider whether Miss T consented to it. Ive read what shes said about what happened 
and also listened to a recording of a call she made to Santander on 25 September 2022 to 
report what had happened. She was asked if shed provided any security details and said 
that she hadnt. She thinks that the phone was put up to her face and that this is how the 
fraudster sent money from her account. 
The systems information shows there was a gap of about four minutes after the log in 
before any payment details were entered. There was more than the £3,000 taken available 
in the account. While I appreciate what Miss T says about how she was affected at the time, 
shes never indicated that shed given her security number to anyone and that would be a 
distinct action from a phone being put up to her face. 
I appreciate shes adamant her security number wasnt and couldnt have been used. But as 
Ive said thats what the systems information shows here. So, having taken into account all 
the information I dont have a basis to find it most likely that a third party was able to make 
this payment without her authorisation. And Im afraid I think its reasonable for Santander to 
hold her responsible for the payment. I know how disappointed Miss T will be by my 
assessment given whats at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman