DRN-3660905
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBG) declined his claim for 
fire damage and cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr B had buildings and contents insurance with LBG. His home suffered fire damage, so he 
made a claim under his policy. On looking into his claim, LBG identified that Mr B had given 
incorrect information when he bought the policy. It said hed only declared one buildings 
claim in the previous three years but hed made three claims. LBG said it wouldnt have 
offered Mr B cover if hed provided the correct information, so it cancelled his policy and 
returned his premiums. As there was no policy in place, LBG could not consider his claim.
Mr B complained to LBG. He said one claim was more than three years before he bought the 
policy, so LBG shouldnt have taken that into consideration. Mr B also said that the two 
claims LBG identified were actually one claim. He said his insurer confirmed that the second 
part of the claim was a continuation of the first claim. Therefore, he believed hed provided 
accurate information when he bought the policy.
LBG acknowledged that it made a mistake by saying thered been three claims and it paid 
Mr B £75 by way of apology. However, it maintained that the two buildings claims were 
separate claims, and it still wouldnt have offered cover because of those two claims.
Mr B didnt think LBG had treated him fairly, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was clear from the evidence that Mr B 
had made two claims within the three years prior to buying the cover with LBG. Therefore, 
he thought LBG had fairly declined the claim and cancelled the policy in line with the 
underwriting criteria. Our investigator thought LBGs payment of £75 for the mistake 
regarding the claim outside the three-year declaration period was reasonable in the 
circumstances, so he didnt think LBG needed to do any more.
Mr B didnt agree. He repeated his view that the two buildings claims were actually one 
claim, and he didnt think it was fair that LBG cancelled his policy before it fully investigated 
his complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LBG says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy because he only declared one previous paid claim in the last three years. 
LBG identified two paid claims on the insurance database. Ive looked at the policy schedule 
which confirms the answers Mr B gave to the questions asked, as follows:
In the last 3 years, how many paid buildings insurance claims have you, or anyone 
currently living with you, had?
[Mr Bs answer] 1
Mr B doesnt dispute giving this answer, so Ive thought about whether he took reasonable to 
care to provide accurate information.
Mr B made a claim for an escape of water from his bathroom which damaged the rooms 
below. The following year he made a claim for storm damage. Mr B said his insurer at the 
time said it would deal with the claims as one because of the delays due to the national 
lockdown. Its not clear to me why the insurer mightve done that, especially as the claims 
are clearly for separate incidents, with separate causes, and attracting two separate 
excesses. It may well be the case that the insurer dealt with the work at the same time, but 
that doesnt mean the claims can reasonably be classed as a single claim. The database of 
claims shows two separate claims. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr B didnt take reasonable 
care to give an accurate answer to the question asked. 
Ive gone on to look at whether it made a difference that Mr B had made two claims rather 
than the one he declared. Having considered the underwriting criteria, I can see that LBG 
wouldve declined to offer cover if Mr B had declared two buildings claims in the previous 
three years. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one  it 
wouldve made a difference to LBGs decision to offer cover.
LBG said it would cancel the policy and refund Mr Bs premium. This tells me it has classed 
the misrepresentation as a careless one and its the most favourable outcome for Mr B in the 
circumstances.
Ive agreed that Mr B made a careless qualifying misrepresentation when he took out his 
cover with LBG. Under CIDRA, LBG is entitled to cancel the policy, treating it as if it never 
existed. That means LBG will refund the premiums, but it will decline any claim as theres no 
policy under which to consider it. Im satisfied that LBG has proposed action in line with 
CIDRA, therefore, the outcome is fair and reasonable.
Claims made
Ive considered Mr Bs complaint about LBGs confusing information when it declined his 
claim and cancelled his policy. LBG said hed had three claims  two buildings and one contents. I can see that the claims database shows two claims, although one claim is made 
up of both a buildings and contents claim. However, only one excess was charged for the 
two claims and it was for one incident with one cause. LBG confirmed it made a mistake 
saying thered been three claims and it paid £75 into Mr Bs bank account by way of apology.
However, Mr B didnt think the payment was a fair offer given the overall issue of complaint. 
He asked to return the payment and I see LBG provided details of how he could do that. 
Looking at the mistake LBG made, I agree that it amounts to a shortfall in service. However, 
I cant see any reason to expect LBG to offer more than it did. Thats because the 
underwriting criteria confirmed Mr Bs request for cover wouldve been declined anyway with 
just two claims, so the mistake didnt make a material difference to the overall outcome. I 
wont be asking LBG to increase its offer. If Mr B has already returned the payment, its a 
matter for him and LBG to arrange for the payment to be made again should he want it.
As a final point, Mr B complained about the way LBG handled his complaint. Its not within 
my remit to consider complaint handling. Thats because I can only consider complaints 
about regulated services. I have, however, taken into consideration Mr Bs comments about 
whether LBG treated him fairly. As Ive said above, Im satisfied that LBG handled his claim 
in line with the actions set out by CIDRA, and I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
LBG treated him unfairly.
In summary, the evidence shows that Mr B gave an incorrect answer to the question asked 
when he bought the policy which would otherwise have meant LBG declined to offer cover. 
In light of the qualifying misrepresentation, LBG cancelled the policy and said it would return 
the premiums, in line with CIDRA. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome, so I 
wont be asking LBG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman