DRN-2787742
The complaint
Mr A complains that a van that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. His wife is also involved with his 
complaint.
What happened
A used van was supplied to Mr A under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
he electronically signed in November 2019. He contacted Moneybarn about issues with the 
van in December 2019. He returned the van to the dealer for some repairs and paid for 
some work on the handbrake by a third party. He complained to Moneybarn in February 
2020 about issues with the van, including with its brakes, transmission, windscreen and 
internal plywood lining  and said that he wanted to reject the van. It arranged for it to be 
inspected by an independent expert in March 2020  but the inspection report concluded 
that the faults wouldnt have been present when the van was supplied to Mr A. Moneybarn 
didnt agree that Mr A could reject the van so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
problems were due to a reasonable level of wear and tear for the number of miles the van 
had completed and that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He didnt think 
that it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to do anything more to resolve Mr As complaint.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that there 
was a transmission problem when the van was supplied to him and it was with the dealer for 
repairs for six weeks. He says that the issue wasnt diagnosed until the van was taken to a 
manufacturers dealer. He says that the van wasnt in a satisfactory condition when it was 
supplied to him and hes had persistent problems with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the van and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the van must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the van that was supplied to Mr A was about three and a half years old, had been 
driven for about 97,000 miles and had a price of £13,885.60;
Mr A says that there was a transmission problem when the van was supplied to him 
and that it was returned to the dealer for six weeks for repairs; 
he contacted Moneybarn about issues with the van in December 2019 and said: I 
am not happy with the van. I have had it less than 2 weeks and there are multi 
problems;
the dealer said in January 2020 that the van received fresh oil and a filter service, 
passed an MOT test and had a full pre-delivery inspection before it was supplied to 
Mr A and it authorised a three month warranty from that date free of charge;
Mr A complained to Moneybarn about the van in February 2020 and it arranged for it 
to be inspected by an independent expert in March 2020  the inspection report 
recorded the vans mileage as 108,358;
it said: We could not physically fault the vehicles transmission to any degree at the 
time of our inspection; and:  the vehicles braking system does require immediate 
attention - it also said that there were issues with the plywood in the load space and 
the windscreen but they were not uncommon or unexpected and that: Taking into 
consideration the time and mileage elapsed since the point of finance inception the 
faults would not have been present or developing at that time;
Mr A didnt agree with the reports conclusions but hed been able to use the van to 
drive more 11,000 miles between November 2019, when it was supplied to him, and 
March 2020, when it was inspected, and he says that the van was with the dealer for 
six weeks during that time;
Im not persuaded that its likely than hed have been able to drive more than 11,000 
miles in the van in four months if theyd been issues with the transmission and brakes 
that caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him;
the van passed an MOT test in November 2019, before it was supplied to Mr A, and 
again in November 2020 when its mileage was recorded as 109,755  although 
advisories were noted in November 2020, including slight chips in windscreen, they 
didnt cause the van to be of unsatisfactory quality at that time;
Mr A had provided evidence of repairs to the van by a manufacturers dealer in June 
2020 and says that he paid £937.22 for repairs to the transmission, including 
renewing a hydraulic pump and £123.61 for dealing with defects identified on a visual 
health check including a brake pad sensor and a handbrake adjustment;
hes also provided evidence of repairs to the gearbox in October 2020 costing 
£6,025.18 which he says were made under a warranty; 
its clear that there have been issues with the van and I sympathise with Mr A for the 
issues that hes had with it and for the repair costs that hes incurred (or will incur) but 
he was able to drive more than 11,000 miles in the van within four months of it being 
supplied to him and the independent expert couldnt fault the vans transmission in 
March 2020 after Mr A had been able to drive 11,000 miles in it;
the dealer provided Mr A with a three month warranty free of charge and the vans 
transmission was repaired (which he says was under a warranty) in October 2020 
but, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the van wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Moneybarn to allow Mr A to reject the van, to pay for any repairs to the van, to pay 
Mr A any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman