DRN-2533911
The complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma, irresponsibly lent to him. 
He says that he couldnt afford the loan repayments. He thinks that Satsuma shouldve seen 
this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr M between March 
2017 and January 2018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 28/03/2017 £800 6 27/04/2017
2 04/05/2017 £400 3 17/08/2017
3 31/01/2018 £800 12 15/02/2019
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
but his representative didnt say why this was. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Mr M needed to make six monthly repayments, the highest of which was around 
£250. The highest repayment for loan 2 was just under £200 over a three month term. Mr M 
would need to make repayments for a longer period for loan 3 but the most he would pay in 
one month was £130. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr M provided when he completed his loan 
applications. Mr M said he had a monthly income of £2,650. Satsumas information shows 
he had regular monthly outgoings of around £1,750 for loans one and two, this had 
increased to £2,050 for loan 3. The outgoings amount is made up partly of what Mr M 
declared to Satsuma. In addition, Satsuma added an amount to what Mr M declared based 
on the outstanding credit it could see from his credit file. But taking all of this into account it 
was reasonable for Satsuma to have thought that Mr M could afford the loan repayments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr M mightve been having. Mr M repaid all of the loans and there was a 
reasonable break between loans 2 and 3. These are indicators that Mr Ms finances were not 
worsening, and may have been improving. 
And there isnt anything that wouldve prompted Satsuma to investigate Mr Ms 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for loans 1 to 3 was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman