DRN-2604012
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given to him by a firm, S, who were an appointed 
representative of CFP Management Limited (CFP), when he transferred the deferred 
benefits in his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Specifically, he says CFP failed to protect his ability to take his retirement benefits 
from the scheme at age 50 and he has lost out financially as a result.
To avoid confusion, Ill refer to CFP throughout this matter.
What happened
Mr S was introduced to CFP by a third-party firm, B, in December 2016. Mr Ss wife worked 
for B.
At the time of referral, he was 51 and employed earning around £100,000 a year. He had 
four existing pensions. This included two group personal pension plans with a total value of 
around £110,000, a SIPP of limited value and OPS benefits with a value of around 
£367,000. His OPS was due to give him a pension of around £13,000 on retirement at age 
62. CFP say he also had a further personal pension. 
Mr S had a £350,000 mortgage and approximately £20,000 of credit card debt. His 
significant assets included artwork and watches to the value of £35,000 and £5,000 in cash.
Mr S says he didnt speak to CFP  it was all done remotely with paper-based forms. 
Mr Ss objectives and reasons for the advice were stated in several different places. This 
includes the following.
- To consider the viability of transferring my [OPS] into a personal pension
I wish to have control over my pension fund/investment & death benefits
I wish to have control over the structure and timing of my pension benefits
(Areas of advice required set out in the Client Agreement, December 2016)
- I would consider a moderate level of risk in order to grow my pension funds over the 
next 15 years with a view to draw benefits from around my 65th birthday when my 
youngest child is over the age of 21 (Investment objectives set out in the Data Gathering 
Form, December 2016)
- To have control of your pension fund in order to provide death benefits to your family 
and flexibility in how the income benefits are taken. (CFP case report checklist stated 
objective and repeated as the main objective in CFPs report in February 2017)
- To have greater control over pension benefits with flexibility in payment and to benefit 
from lump sum death benefit for wife & children (report notes under the heading reason 
behind wanting to transfer out February 2017).
An attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire was completed which CFP said showed he had a 
highest medium ATR  a 7 out of 10. The answers under the risk capacity revealed a short-
term investment timeframe of 0-5 years  which isnt in line with some of the stated 
objectives - with no or very limited capacity for loss in relation to his investment. As a result, 
the recommendations in the risk capacity section were for lower risk portfolios to provide 
greater certainty and reduce the risk of suffering losses. His desired retirement age here was 
62. 
In February 2017, CFP advised Mr S that he could only meet his main objective  as stated 
in its case report checklist - by transferring the deferred benefits in his OPS to a personal 
pension plan and advised this was suitable for him. The report went on to recommend the 
SIPP Mr S should transfer his benefits into.
Mr S accepted the advice, and, in early May 2017, CFP confirmed to Mr S that his OPS had 
been transferred to the SIPP. The advice cost 3% of the transfer value. If the transfer didnt 
go ahead or wasnt recommended by CFP, their fee was limited to £500 plus VAT. 
In 2019, Mr S complained to CFP that it failed to:
- advise and protect his ability to take his retirement benefits from the scheme at age 
50; and
- didnt explain he could take his pension benefits at the time of advice, being over 50. 
CFP didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the following:
- His protected early retirement age would be lost on transfer as it wasnt possible to 
arrange a block transfer for Mr S. 
- Given his salary, it wouldnt have recommended that he took the benefits early due 
the income tax implications.
- Mr S was knowledgeable in pensions, is still working as a financial advisor and had 
told CFP he had no intention of taking his pension until he was closer to age 65.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and so he came to our service. He explained his complaint is 
that CFP failed to protect his ability to retire early as it didnt seek a buddy with whom he 
couldve arranged a block transfer from the OPS. This has financially affected him and had a 
negative impact on his family life and wellbeing. He says CFP refers to his professional 
capacity but he didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on pensions transfers like this 
and wanted the security of being advised as a retail client. The reason he realised there was 
a problem is that he had an accident and his wellbeing suffered so greatly he was unable to 
work. Mr S says this brought forward his plan to set up his own business by 4-5 years.
Our investigator looked into matters and, in light of our inquisitorial remit, explained that she 
had concerns about the suitability of the original advice to transfer the deferred benefits in 
the OPS to a SIPP. CFP made further comments, but they didnt change her view. 
As the parties couldnt agree, this matter was passed to me for a decision. I contacted both 
parties with my provisional decision in the matter. I explained why I was intending not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint against CFP. An extract of the provisional decision sent to Mr S 
appears below and forms part of this final decision.
Inquisitorial remit
Our investigator explained in her view that shed decided to use our inquisitorial remit when 
considering this case and the advice you received as a whole. Its often fair to use our 
inquisitorial remit rather than expect a consumer to bring the complaint to us in the correct 
way, for example, they might not always understand the root cause of the thing theyre 
unhappy with or perhaps not have the necessary skill to explain that to us. So, in a case like 
this, wed use the inquisitorial remit to get to the heart of the complaint even if the complaint 
made to us is narrower than this. But I dont think its appropriate to do this in your particular 
case.Your case is different to the scenario I mentioned above  youre a sophisticated consumer 
and have articulately and specifically stated the complaint point youd like our service to 
consider. Also, I must consider that youve repeatedly told us youre happy with the advice 
you received to transfer out the DB [defined benefits] scheme. Youve been consistent  
throughout the complaint in this position, recently explaining to the investigator you were 
pleased with the advice as it gave you access and control  the two key things you wanted. 
So, Ive focused on the specific complaint point youve raised with our service  that CFP 
failed to advise you about or organise a buddy transfer to retain your protected retirement 
age.
Your complaint - buddy transfers
Youve said it wasnt explained to you that the option to retire early could be protected 
through a buddy transfer. You werent asked if you knew anyone considering transfer and 
CFP didnt attempt to find a buddy either. This is the complaint point you asked our service 
to investigate.
Having considered this, Im not currently intending to uphold your complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I thought about the advice CFP gave about the loss of the protected retirement age 
and whether this was sufficiently clear. I think it was. When CFP advised you, they said you 
may have the right to take the benefits from age 50. I think they shouldve been more 
definitive here because you did have a protected retirement age. However, youve said you 
had assumed this was going to transfer with you, so I think you knew you had a protected 
retirement age with the DB scheme of 50. CFP were clear about the implications of the 
transfer on your protected retirement age - the report gave a clear warning this would be lost 
if you made the transfer out of the DB scheme and that, on transfer, youd be allowed to take 
the PCLS [pension commencement lump sum] from age 55. Further, with your experience 
and knowledge, its reasonable to assume you knew that the retirement age once transferred 
would be 55.
Ive then thought specifically about the option to make a buddy transfer. When a single 
person approaches a firm for advice about whether they should leave a DB scheme, we 
wouldnt necessarily expect the business to explore the option of a buddy transfer. Whilst I 
acknowledge you say you wanted to be flexible about when you took the benefits, your 
stated objectives on the data gathering from, which you signed, were to grow your pension 
benefits over the next 15 years and draw them from around your 65th birthday when your 
youngest child is over the age of 21. Nothing in the report or information supplied to CFP 
suggested you were intending to access the benefits sooner than this. I appreciate 
protecting the early retirement age, if possible, wouldve given you more flexibility which is 
something that was important to you generally. However, a retirement before age 55 wasnt 
a focus of your goals and objectives so I dont think the importance of a buddy transfer 
shouldve been in the mind of the adviser as a relevant consideration. In any event, we 
wouldnt expect a firm to go out and search for a buddy for a consumer and CFP have 
confirmed they didnt have any other clients leaving the same scheme around this time. Nor 
have we seen any evidence that you found a buddy or that finding one was likely.
In summary, I dont currently intend to uphold your complaint that CFP failed to advise you 
about the option of a buddy transfer or attempt to find one for you.
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
CFP responded to accept the provisional decision. 
Mr S replied and, in summary, says hes disappointed with the decision. And hes made 
comments hed like to be considered. These include the below points. - He wanted to be treated as a retail customer and maintain the highest level of 
protection under the FCA rules. His ability to articulate his complaint doesnt mean 
different rules apply or reduces CFPs responsibility to do the job theyre paid to do.
- Whilst happy with the advice to transfer his benefits from the DB into a SIPP, he 
trusted his adviser to retain the best aspects of the OPS when advising him and 
retaining the retirement age of 50 wouldve been the best advice. However, theres 
no mention of a buddy transfer within the report or the recommendation and this led 
to him loosing that benefit. He thinks the importance of a buddy transfer shouldve 
been in the mind of the adviser as a relevant consideration. 
- Due to a change of his circumstances, he changed his career path earlier than 
planned. As he couldnt access his pension early, this put him and his family into 
financial difficulties until he turned 55. 
- If hed been asked, hes sure he couldve found a buddy given the size of the OPS he 
was leaving.
The matter has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. So, whilst Im sorry this is going to disappoint Mr S, I dont uphold 
his complaint in this matter. I would just like to take the opportunity to respond to some of the 
specific points made by Mr S. 
As I explained in the provisional decision, in a case like this and considering Mr Ss 
professional experience in this area, it wouldnt be appropriate  or necessary  to use our 
inquisitorial remit to get to the heart of the complaint. Which is why Ive considered his 
specific complaint point in this matter  that CFP failed to advise him about or organise a 
buddy transfer to retain his protected retirement age. But this doesnt mean the rules Ive 
considered are different. When deciding whats fair and reasonable, we take into account 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and  where appropriate  what we consider was good industry practice at the time. This is 
what Ive done in this case in relation to Mr Ss specific complaint point. Its also fair and 
reasonable to consider within this what the consumer wouldve reasonably already known 
and understood from the advice. Its for this reason I said it was reasonable to assume that 
Mr S knew that the retirement age once transferred would be 55.
Mr S has previously told us hed assumed the right to take the benefits from age 50 would 
transfer with him. But the report gave a clear warning this would be lost if he made the 
transfer out of the OPS. It was also explained that, on transfer, hed be allowed to take the 
PCLS from age 55. So, Mr S had been made aware hed lose the right to take his benefits 
early if he transferred out of the OPS. And I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to 
ask an advisor about this, particularly if it contradicted something they thought was going to 
happen.
Turning specifically to the point about buddy transfers. I note Mr Ss comments and that he 
feels the importance of a buddy transfer shouldve been in the mind of the adviser as a 
relevant consideration. But I dont see things the same. I appreciate, looking back on the 
advice he was given and the change in his circumstances that followed, being able to take 
his retirement benefits early wouldve made an important difference to the financial 
difficulties he and his family faced. However, what Im considering is the information the advisor had at the time, including Mr Ss goals and objectives. And nothing Ive seen in the 
report or information supplied to CFP suggested Mr S was intending to access the benefits 
sooner than around age 65. So, I still dont think the importance of a buddy transfer to retain 
the ability to take the retirement benefits before age 55 shouldve been in the mind of the 
adviser as a relevant consideration in these particular circumstances.
Taking everything into account, I dont think CFP failed in its obligations or treated Mr S 
unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt mention the option of a buddy transfer. It follows that I 
dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this matter.
However, as I explained in the provisional decision, even if I thought CFP had failed to 
advise Mr S about a buddy, we wouldnt expect a firm to go out and search for one. I havent 
seen any evidence Mr S found a buddy. And I dont think I could reasonably say that him 
finding one at the time was more likely than not. I say this particularly as the buddy, once 
found, would need to satisfy several requirements. This includes wanting to leave the same 
OPS, at the same time as Mr S, to transfer their benefits into the same SIPP as Mr S. The 
buddy wouldve also needed to obtain independent advice on the transfer of their deferred 
benefits in the OPS to the same SIPP as Mr S.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S particularly when hes explained that him and his family have 
had a difficult time. But this decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve this 
complaint  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman