DRN-3098757
The complaint
Ms G says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she was in a debt 
spiral and so she couldnt easily repay the lending. She thinks that Morses shouldnt have 
lent to her because of this. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms G between 
April 2018 and September 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 05/04/2018 £300 33 15/11/2018
2 03/09/2018 £200 33 25/04/2019
3 15/11/2018 £400 33 07/05/2019
4 07/05/2019 £400 33 04/10/2019
5 25/09/2019 £1,000 52 24/09/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that he didnt think Morses had lent 
irresponsibly for loans 1 to 4. But he thought that the lending pattern itself showed that Ms G 
was likely to be reliant on these loans at loan 5. And so Morses shouldnt have approved this 
loan. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that it didnt think five loans in 17 
months was excessive. And whilst the repayments for loan 5 were higher they still looked 
affordable based on the information Ms G had provided. 
Ms G didnt comment on the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to partly uphold Ms Gs complaint and Ive have explained why below.
Ms G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment further 
about this lending save to say I dont think that Morses lent irresponsibly for these loans. And 
they are part of the borrowing relationship Ms G had with Morses. So, they are something I 
will take into account when considering loan 5. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 5 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Ms G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Gs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
Ms G had been indebted to Morses for 17 months. This is a reasonably long time to 
be using high cost credit in itself. But at loan 5, Ms G was making a commitment to 
make repayments for a further year. And these repayments were a significant 
increase on the earlier loans. 
Added to this Ms G was often making repayments to more than one loan. She made 
repayments to loans 1 and 2 at the same time, and for the rest of the loans she was 
often making repayments to two loans at a time. And Ms G borrowed relatively 
frequently. She borrowed £900 in 2018 and £1,400 in 2019. Loan 5 is for a much greater amount than the earlier loans. So, it looks to me, taking 
all of these factors into consideration, that it was more likely than not Ms G was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans had left in her 
finances.   
And at this point Morses ought to have known that Ms G was not likely borrowing to 
meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need.
The above factors make it reasonable to say that it was likely Ms Gs indebtedness 
was now unsustainable at loan 5.
I think that Ms G lost out because Morses provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms G borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 5, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms G loan 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms G towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Morses should pay Ms G the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Gs borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded about 
it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Gs credit file. If Morses has sold 
any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman