DRN-3634691
The complaint
Ms G complains Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded a £600 payment made from her account 
and that branch staff were rude and laughed at her when she discussed her claim.
What happened
Ms G has a current account with Metro Bank into which she receives money from the DWP.
Ms G says she realised her ex-partner had used her phone to transfer £600 to his own 
account without her permission when she went to collect a new card from branch. She says 
she reported him to the police and she asked Metro Bank to refund her money. The £600 
was transferred in the early hours of the morning, shortly after a payment from the DWP.
Ms G subsequently complained about branch staff being rude and laughing at her when she 
discussed her claim.
Metro Bank investigated the fraud that Ms G had reported and said that there was nothing 
more it could do as it had contacted the receiving bank and no funds remained. Metro Bank 
also said that Ms G had made previous payments to her ex-partner  in other words, he was 
an existing beneficiary  so the transaction wasnt considered unusual. But Metro Bank said 
that it would consider her claim further if she could provide a copy of the police report  it 
had checked the details shed given and had been unable to corroborate that shed spoken 
to the police. Finally, Metro Bank didnt agree that branch staff had been rude or laughed 
having investigated. In short, Metro Bank didnt uphold Ms Gs claim. Ms G told Metro Bank 
that shed lost a lot of documents as a result of a flood at her property, and that her phone 
and car were stolen too, meaning she no longer has many, if any, records. She complained 
to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. Ms G was 
unhappy with this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. So thats 
whats happened  I was asked to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has given us a lot of information about her circumstances both at the time of this 
disputed transaction and historically. Based on what shes said, its clear she was extremely 
vulnerable at the time of the disputed transaction. It appears that Ms G is still vulnerable 
based on what has happened to her since then. I do, therefore, hope that Ms G is receiving 
appropriate support and, if not, that she reaches out for some. In the meantime, I have to 
decide whether or not Metro Bank has acted fairly and reasonably in this particular case.
the disputed transaction
Our investigator has already explained the relevant considerations in detail when it comes to 
deciding whether or not a bank is required to refund an unauthorised payment  including 
considering whether or not the transaction in question was authorised and whether or not the 
customer in question consented to the payment. In this case, no-one is disputing that the 
transfer was done using Ms Gs mobile phone and Metro Banks mobile app and that all the 
relevant security checks were passed. The main issue is whether or not Ms G consented to 
the payment or not  either because she carried out the transaction herself or authorised 
someone to complete in on her behalf or not.
Ms G says that her ex-partner carried out the transaction without her authority. Ive 
considered this, and Ive considered all of the evidence weve received including listening to 
calls about this disputed transaction. Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the 
transaction was either carried out by Ms G or that she authorised it to be completed on her 
behalf. Unfortunately, there are many inconsistencies in what Ms G has told us. Although 
some of those inconsistencies may be down to her vulnerability at the time, the evidence 
overall shows that its more likely than not that this wasnt a transaction carried out without 
her authority.
the branch visit
Having considered the limited evidence available as to what happened when Ms G was in 
branch, I cant say that the branch staff were rude or laughed at Ms G. So, I dont agree 
Metro Bank needs to do more than it already has done, namely investigate what happened.
overall
I appreciate that Ms G has been waiting a long time for an answer, that things havent been 
at all easy for her and that shes been struggling emotionally and financially. But I have to 
decide whether or not Metro Bank has acted unfairly and, in this case, I dont believe it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC doesnt need to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman