DRN-4067115
The complaint
Mr T, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money, lent to him irresponsibly in 2018 and 2019. 
What happened
Using information from Madisons records, here is a loan table. 
Loan Approved Amount Monthly 
repayments 
and termRepaid Refinanced?
1 22 January 2018 £1,700 24 x £119.29 3 August 
2018Yes into loan 
2
2 3 August 2018 £2,194.63 of 
which 
£1,344.63 
from loan 124 x £159.41 3 July 2018 Yes into loan 
3
3 3 July 2019 £2,772.51 of 
which 
£1,572.51 to 
settle loan 224 x £201.46 30 April 
2021
Mr T told Madison that he earned £1,300 a month, he lived with his parents and paid them 
£80 a month. His other expenses were unsecured credit of £262 a month (credit card and 
other loan payments) and he also spent £325 a month on food, insurance, and utility bills. 
So, his total outgoings were declared as £667 each month. 
Madison carried out credit searches on each of the loan application dates and I will come 
back to those in the main body of the decision.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Madison ought not to have 
lent to Mr T at loan 3. Madison agreed. Mr Ts representative was content to accept that 
loan 3 resolution but was not content in relation to loans 1 and 2.
The partially unresolved complaint about loans 1 and 2 has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr T  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr T. In 
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
As Mr Ts representative has told us and informed Madison that it was content with the 
loan 3 uphold then this decision will review loans 1 and 2 as they are the unresolved loans 
about which Mr T continues his complaint.
Loan 1 
The declared income and expenditure indicated that Mr T had enough disposable income to 
afford the repayments of just over £119 a month. 
Madison carried out a credit search and I have received a copy of that report. The headline 
figures show me that Mr T had around £5,400 of total debt of which £5,005 related to 
revolving credit (such as credit cards) or budget accounts. 
Mr T had 12 accounts of which 5 were active. Hed opened one new account in the six 
months leading up to applying for loan 1. Hed had some late repayments in the previous 36 
months and was taking cash advances using his credit accounts. And Mr T had only one 
search registered against him in the previous 12 months. 
Mr Ts representative has said that his overdraft was significant element relating and I have 
seen from the credit search that his overdraft was £390 on a £600 limit. It seemed to be an 
account under control and Im not persuaded that simply having and using an overdraft facility is a feature of Mr Ts financial situation that ought to have been a significant factor to 
concern Madison. 
Overall, I consider that Mr Ts financial situation as relatively good. For a loan of this kind as 
a new customer and for this term, then Id have expected Madison to have carried out a 
credit search which it has. I would not have expected it to have gone further as there was 
nothing in that research Madison did which likely would have prompted it to carry out further 
or more in-depth enquiries about Mr Ts financial situation.
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Madison has said that for the second loan it asked Mr T if any of his income and expenditure 
information had altered. Mr T had not indicated it had. Madison told us:
For additional borrowing applications (where there is an internal settlement) the 
customer will be presented with the info [sic] they supplied on the previous 
application and will be asked to update/edit anything that may have changed. In this 
instance, the data remained unchanged.
Madison was aware that Mr T wanted to refinance the first loan into the second. The 
repayment history on loan 1 up to that point had been satisfactory and that historic feature 
would have formed part of the creditworthiness assessment carried out by Madison when 
Mr T approached it for loan 2. 
When loan 1 was refinanced into loan 2 then Mr Ts loan account shows that he received an 
interest rebate of £683.20. 
Madison carried out a credit search and I have reviewed those results.
In June 2018 Mr T had applied for and obtained a hire purchase agreement (HP) which had 
an outstanding balance of £9,031 at the time Mr T applied for loan 2 with Madison. There 
had been no issues with the repayments. He was scheduled to repay £150 a month. 
Mr H had obtained an earlier HP agreement in February 2018 which had an outstanding 
balance of just under £7,500 and his repayments were £133 a month. There were no 
recorded issues relating to payments on that account. 
So, the declared expenditure of spent £325 a month on food, insurance, and utility bills, plus 
£80 a month on his rent to his parents plus the expenditure on the two HP loans all added up 
to around £688. His credit card balances were around £5,600 and so the minimum 
repayments on that would have been around £168 a month. His total likely costs for HP and 
credit card and loan repayments were around £610 a month including the Madison loan 2 
monthly payments. I consider that Madison would have considered that the loan 2 
repayments were affordable. 
Mr Ts overdraft was much the same with a balance of £460 on a £600 limit. Mr Ts credit 
card situation was much the same as when he applied for loan 1.
So, his overall credit debt balance had increased but two of those related to HP agreements 
for which there were no issues with repayments. The use of cash advances through credit 
accounts had reduced. 
I have reviewed Mr Ts representatives concerns since the adjudicator issued his view on the 
three loans last year. 
Most of the points it raised presupposed that Madison would have obtained and reviewed 
copies of Mr Ts bank account statements. But as I have outlined above, the information 
Madison had already obtained in relation to Mr Ts finances was not likely to have promoted 
it to consider that further investigation was needed. A couple of examples are that Mr T 
received money from his mother and had to pay for bank charges. Mr Ts representative has 
mentioned that Mr T spent money on betting and gaming websites, but this is not information Madison would have known about. I would not have expected Madison to have done more 
and so unless Mr T informed them about this additional expenditure then Id not expect 
Madison to have known of it.
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3 has been resolved and for completeness I set out below what our adjudicator said 
and which Madison agreed to carry out. So, I anticipate that Madison has already actioned 
this part of the complaint.
Putting things right
Madison shouldnt have given Mr T loan 3. My understanding is that this part for loan 3 was 
accepted by Mr Ts representative on his behalf on 22 or 23 November 2022 and so 
reference here to calculation of the 8% would mean up to the date of settlement at that time 
and not todays date. If it has not already done so, Madison should do as follows: 
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and charges 
on loan 3, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including 
anything already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the payments, to the 
date the loan 3 uphold was accepted by Mr T
C) pay Mr T the total of A plus B, unless already paid
D) remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to 
loan 3, unless already carried out..
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman