DRN-3160073
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for damage and loss in 
connection with his motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include its claims-handlers, engineers, vehicle marketing company 
and others insofar as I hold Aviva responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a cabriolet car first registered in 2011.
For the year from February 2021, Mr T had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Aviva.
Unfortunately, in late March 2021,his vehicle was damaged in an accident that wasnt his 
fault. Mr T made a claim to Aviva. Its vehicle marketing company took his car away for 
assessment. After discussion, Mr T was expecting Aviva to return his damaged car and pay 
him about £5,900.00 in lieu of repairs.
But the vehicle marketing company admitted causing further damage to the car, estimated at 
£4,600.00. So Aviva kept the car and paid Mr T its pre-accident valuation of £8,500.00. 
Mr T complained to Aviva that it was responsible for the further damage to his car.
By a final response dated mid-June 2021, Aviva apologised and said it would pay Mr T a 
further £275.00 in compensation for the poor handling of the claim and the complaint and for 
some parts Mr T had purchased. Unhappy with that response, Mr T brought his complaint to 
us in July 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aviva had acted unreasonably or treated Mr T unfairly. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He asks whether the vehicle marketing company has come out of this with no 
financial loss/penalties.
He asks whether he can use his uninsured loss policy to claim against the vehicle 
marketing company. 
He asks whether Aviva can provide him with explanation of actions/ disciplinary/ 
conditions of improvement of services expected from its vehicle marketing company.
He asks that we explain why two separate cases of damage are not separate claims 
as the non-fault settlement would be paid by the other insurance company, but the 
damage caused by the vehicle marketing company would be a second claim from its 
business insurance. 
He has lost his vehicle and having to find and fund a replacement. He has dedicated 
time to fighting his corner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). We deal with a consumers complaint against a regulated financial 
firm in relation to regulated financial activities. 
In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify any other party.
Where we find that the firm has done something wrong, we look at its effect on the 
complainant and we consider whether we should direct compensation or other steps to put it 
right. Its not within our power to punish any party.
We may hold regulated firms responsible for the acts or omissions of unregulated 
contractors. And I hold Aviva responsible for the damage caused to Mr Ts car by its vehicle 
marketing company. 
But I dont consider that Avivas responsibility is affected by either its ability to recover its 
outlay from another party such as a third party driver or the vehicle marketing company or 
their respective insurers.
We dont have power to direct Aviva how to manage its relationship with the vehicle 
marketing company.
Like most motor insurance policies, Avivas policy for Mr T provided that the insurer would 
choose whether to repair the car or to pay money to him. And the most it would pay would 
be the pre-accident market value of the car.
The policy also provided as follows:
A courtesy car is typically a small three door hatchback car with an engine size of 1 
litre. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint that the courtesy car wasnt like his car.
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr T had motor legal cover. But as far as Im aware, he 
hasnt made a claim under that cover or made a complaint to Aviva. So I cant comment 
further on that aspect.
Mr T hasnt provided enough evidence to challenge Avivas pre-accident valuation of 
£8,500.00. But our investigator checked the trade guides for a vehicle like Mr Ts. The 
figures were as follows:
CAP £8,595.00
Glasss £7,750.00
Cazana £8,580.00So Im satisfied that Avivas valuation of £8,500.00 was within the range of those figures and 
didnt treat Mr T unfairly.
I consider that what Mr T had before the accident was a car worth about £8,500.00, so he 
couldnt suffer a monetary loss any more than that, whatever happened to the car. In other 
words, I dont find that Mr Ts loss was more than £8,500.00 even if it were to be dealt with 
under two separate claims.
So, whilst I understand Mr Ts loss of opportunity to get his car repaired, I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay him any further compensation for financial loss. 
I accept that  from damage for which Ive found Aviva responsible  Mr T has suffered 
annoyance and wasted time. But Aviva promptly apologised and paid him £275.00 for that 
and some spare parts. Overall I find that fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman