DRN-3986212
The complaint
Miss E complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt treat her fairly in relation to
her motor insurance premiums following a claim.
What happened
Miss E was in an accident in late 2019. That year her premium was about £485 a year. The
claim remained open for some time. Prior to renewal in 2020 Miss E queried her increased
premium - of about £845 a year - with Advantage, saying it was about twice what other
insurers were quoting. Miss E says she was promised the premium would be revisited when
the claim closed and she would get a partial refund. She didnt get a refund, which she
doesnt think is fair.
Advantage says, in summary, it did agree to revisit the premium when the claim closed but
didnt guarantee there would be a refund. And it said when the claim closed it checked
the premium [Miss E] paid, [Advantage] can confirm the closure of the claim has not
impacted the premium and [Miss E] would have paid the same amount for the [2020] policy if
the claim had been settled before the policy started. Miss E didnt think this could be right as
following the claim her premium almost doubled, and then later nearly halved. She asked our
service for an independent review.
The investigator wanted to establish whether Advantage had correctly revisited the 2020
premium in line with what it said it would do and said it had done. He asked for this evidence
in October 2022 and again in November 2022. In December 2022, having not received the
evidence he asked for from Advantage, he issued his recommendation. He said Advantage
should pay Miss E £250 compensation to resolve the complaint. This was because while he
wasnt persuaded - based on the information available to him - Miss E had been charged the
wrong premium, he thought shed been given false hope about getting a refund.
Advantage didnt respond to the investigators recommendation. Nor did it  and has not to
date  provided the evidence he asked for. Miss E didnt agree with the recommendation
either. In her view shes shown the increase in premium was because of the claim. And she
said if Advantage had been clear about what would happen when her premium was revisited
when the claim closed  in that she might not get a refund  she would have taken out
cheaper insurance elsewhere. As an agreement between the parties couldnt be reached the
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive listened to a recording of the call Miss E had with Advantage. Advantage said 
the open claim would impact Miss Es No Claims Discount (NCD), which would 
impact the premium quoted. It also said, broadly, Miss E would need to be careful 
what she told other insurers as part of applications. Miss E queried whether when the 
claim was closed as non-fault and the NCD reinstated, Advantage would revisit the 
premium. Advantage said it would, it couldnt guarantee the premium should be 
reduced, but it should be. Miss E decided to go ahead with Advantages 2020 
premium.
I dont consider Miss E was promised she would get a refund, but I find she was led 
to believe that was what was most likely to happen. So I can see why Miss E was 
disappointed when she didnt get any refund when the claim closed. Im not 
persuaded, however, Advantage leading Miss E to believe she was most likely to get 
a refund has meant she has lost out.
I say this because I think its most likely, had she chosen to go with another insurer, 
the premium with that insurer also would have been higher than she thought it should 
be. I say this because my understanding from the call recording is that the quotes 
Miss E had received from other insurers werent based on a complete/accurate 
representation of her situation  such as the position of the claim and her NCD. And I 
doubt Miss E would have taken out an insurance contract based on 
incomplete/inaccurate information, meaning she could have needed to generate new, 
likely higher, quotes. Instead, by sticking with Advantage, she might have paid a 
higher premium at the time, but there was scope for a refund later on  something 
which wouldnt have been a likely option with a new insurer.
Advantage said it would, and that it later did, revisit the 2020 premium when the 
claim closed, but it made no difference, so no refund was due. I consider this was a 
fair and reasonable action for Advantage to agree to do given Miss Es concerns. But 
Im not persuaded the open claim and the impact on Miss Es NCD made no 
difference to the 2020 premium as Advantage has said. I say this because:
- Advantage hasnt shown  despite being asked to provide it repeatedly  that the
claim/NCD didnt make a difference to the 2020 premium. Nor has Advantage
explained why no refund is due.
- Miss Es premium with Advantage did increase significantly following the claim, 
and nothing else material changed as far as Im aware;
- When Miss E enquired about the increase, it was said to be because of the claim/
NCD and that when the claim closed it should decrease;
- In its letter dated 14 December 2021 Advantage said Regarding your policy
premium as your claim is still open there is nothing we can do about it increasing
however, once the claim has been closed we can look into re-rating the policy
premium however we dont know how much it will reduce by as this will be
determined by the underwriters. This suggests it thought a refund would be due, 
but didnt know how much;
- The 2021 premium was based on one non-fault claim and an unaffected NCD  
the same situation as would have been the case when revisiting the 2020 
premium when the claim closed. The premium was about £475. Again, this 
suggests the 2020 premium would have been lower if not for the claim/NCD.
Given the points above, and in the absence of key evidence and compelling 
arguments from Advantage, I find it more likely than not Miss E would have been 
entitled to a refund on her 2020 premium when it was revisited when the claim 
closed.
As the premium was about £485 in 2019, and £475 in 2021, I think its reasonable to
conclude the 2020 premium would have been about the same, so Ill simply take the 
middle - £480. Her 2020 premium was about £845. £845 minus £480 is £365. I 
intend to require Advantage to pay Miss E this sum. Advantage should have provided 
a refund when it revisited the premium in March 2022, so it should pay simple 
interest at 8% a year on the £365 from 16 March 2022 to the date of settlement.
Part of Miss Es complaint is also about the customer service she received from Advantage. She says she made a great deal of calls to chase up the claim and the 
refund, and was let down at times, such as when call backs werent made or lines 
were disconnected. 
Advantage accepted it could have communicated better and offered Miss E £40 
compensation. Im also aware Advantage paid Miss E £50 previously for 
communication related reasons. I consider, looking at things in the round, more 
compensation is appropriate here. Im satisfied Miss E has been distressed and 
inconvenienced by the need to contact Advantage over an extended period of time 
and has been frustrated by the way this matter has been handled. I intend to require 
Advantage to pay Miss E a further £100 compensation.
Miss E accepted my provisional decision. Advantage didnt respond by the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence and arguments, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay
Miss E:
- £365, plus simple interest* at 8% a year from 16 March 2022 to the date of
settlement; and
- A further £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she
was caused.
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken
off. It should also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman