DRN-2248387
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Mallard Leasing Limited wasnt of 
satisfactorily quality.  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Mallard. At the point of supply the car was around 10 years old and had covered 78,926 
miles.
Mr S experienced issues with the car including:
Bluetooth multimedia system not working
Whistling noise from the window
Suspension felt hard
The car was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs to the multimedia system and 
investigate the whistling sound. The dealer was unable to find any faults with the 
suspension.
The car was returned to Mr S but he continued to experience the whistling noise. He also 
raised concerns about a warning light, the tyres, the air conditioning, the timing belt and the 
clutch.
Mallard arranged an independent inspection of the car. This found that the air condition 
wasnt working and that there was vibration through the steering wheel. It also said there 
was a lot of road noise from the nearside front window. In relation to the suspension, the 
report found that it was road legal and that any replacement of suspension component parts 
was due to wear and tear as opposed to a manufacturing defect.
Based on the findings of the inspection, Mallard said it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of 
repairs.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at all the information and said the suspension, clutch, flywheel and 
tyres were all wear and tear issues. She said the multimedia system had been successfully 
repaired. In relation to the air conditioning not working and the whistling noise, she said that 
because the car had been advertised for sale with air conditioning, this should be repaired at 
no cost to Mr S, and that because the whistling noise hadnt yet been resolved, this should 
also be repaired at no cost to Mr S. The investigator said that Mallard should pay 
compensation to Mr S for the inconvenience caused.
Mr S didnt think the level of compensation was enough. He said hed had to take time off 
work as a result of the stress and anxiety caused by the ongoing issues with the car. He later 
said hed accept the view so long as the air conditioning and whistling noise were repaired 
by a third-party garage and the fee for his doctors note was reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Such agreements are covered by 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015. This says that where theres a contract to supply goods or 
services, theres an implied term that the goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is 
what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account factors such as age, mileage, 
description and price.
With cars, theres an implied presumption that faults which develop within 6 months of 
purchase are likely to have been present at the point of supply. Where faults occur after that 
time, its for the consumer to prove that that the faults were present at the point of supply. In 
this case, its clear that Mr S experienced a number of issues with the car. The question here 
is whether the issues were inherent faults, or whether they were issues caused by wear and 
tear, which is to be expected in a second-hand car. 
Mr S reported (amongst other things) issues with the multimedia system, a whistling noise, 
the air conditioning and the suspension. The independent inspection founds faults with the 
air conditioning and noted road noise, which I think is likely to be the whistling noise referred 
to by Mr S. The report identified vibration in the steering wheel but said that any other 
issues, including the suspension, were due to wear and tear. 
Im aware that Mr S has had repairs carried out to the clutch and gearbox and replaced all 
four tyres. But taking the findings of the independent inspection into account, and 
considering the age and mileage of the car, I think its likely that the issues experienced by 
Mr S are largely due to wear and tear. I dont think its unreasonable to expect to repair 
serviceable parts like the clutch and the timing belt in a car of this age and mileage. 
Putting things right
That said, I can see that the car was advertised as having air conditioning. And its 
reasonable to expect that if a car is advertised with air conditioning, this will function 
correctly. Based on what Ive seen, the air conditioning has never worked, so Id expect 
Mallard to arrange for this to be fixed at no cost to Mr S. Im also aware that Mr S reported a 
whistling noise soon after getting the car, which is still present, so I think Mallard should 
arrange for this to be repaired as well. 
Its clear that Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience by the issues hes 
experienced with the car. As Ive said, Im not persuaded that all of the issues are 
manufacturing defects that make the car of unsatisfactory quality. But I am of the view that 
the air conditioning and the whistling noise should have been repaired much sooner and its 
clear that Mr S has been caused frustration by this, so I think Mallard should pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Mallard Leasing Limited trading as 
Mallard Finance must arrange for repairs to be carried out to the air conditioning and to fix 
the whistling noise. Because the relationship between Mr S and the supplying dealer has 
broken down, these repairs should be arranged at a third party garage convenient to Mr S. In addition, Mallard must pay compensation of £100 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman