DRN-3693825
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Chubb European Group SE has unfairly declined his
continuation income protection claim and subsequently terminated his policy.
What happened
Mr A had an income protection policy with Chubb that was cancelled in March 2018. Mr A 
has previously complained about this and the matter was considered by this service. We 
issued a final decision stating Chubb had fairly cancelled the policy. 
But following this, due to a system error, Chubb sent Mr A a letter by mistake offering an 
option to reinstate the policy. His policy was then incorrectly reinstated in June 2018. 
In July 2020 Chubb received a claim from Mr A because he was off work as a taxi driver due 
to a shoulder injury. The claim form said Mr A expected to be back at work on 1 August 
2020. 
Chubb initially accepted the claim and paid benefit for the period 12 May to 28 July 2020 - in 
the sum of £1,973.33. But they explained if the benefit were to continue Mr A would need to 
provide sufficient medical evidence to support he continued to meet the definition of total 
disability detailed in the policy terms.
At the end of July Chubb contacted Mr A who informed them he wasnt able to return to 
work. Mr A was issued with a claim continuation form which he returned in October 2020.  
He says his GP signed him off as totally disabled and said he would return to work on 20 
November 2020. The period claimed was longer than Chubb would normally expect for this 
type of injury, so they asked their Chief Medical Advisor (CMA) to review the medical 
records. Chubb went on to decline the claim in April 2021 and cancel the policy again, 
refunding Mr As premiums from August 2020. 
Chubb paid Mr A £100 compensation because the policy was reinstated in error. They also 
paid a further £100 to recognise the impact of any claim delays and poor communication.
Mr A remained unhappy that his claim had been declined and referred the matter to this 
service. He said he was totally disabled which prevented him from doing his occupation from 
12/5/2020 up until 14/06/2021.
Our investigator looked at what happened and said she was satisfied insufficient evidence 
was provided to continue the claim and it was fair for Chubb to cancel the policy because it 
shouldve never been reinstated. She said despite Bs errors, Mr A appears to have 
benefitted as he has received more under the benefit than hed paid in premiums since the 
reinstatement in error. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In summary he said: 
His main concern was the declined claim rather than the cancellation of the policy. 
He was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic as he there was backlog in medical 
services so he wasnt able to have more consultations 
He wasnt discharged from physiotherapy until February 2021 following a successful 
course that started in September 2020. 
He explained the online GP services he had used and the pain relief he had been 
prescribed 
His GP confirmed it was unsafe for him to drive 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. The onus is on Mr A to prove he has a valid 
claim.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr As policy, total disability is defined as: 
If Such Sickness shall wholly, necessarily and continuously disable the Insured and
prevent him from performing each and every duty pertaining to his usual occupation.
Partial disability is defined as: 
If Such Sickness shall necessarily and continuously disable the Insured prevent him from 
performing one or more daily duties of his usual occupation.
Mr A said his claim should be covered because his GP supports it and agrees he is unable 
to work because he was disabled. However, the submissions from his GP on the claims form 
are somewhat confusing. 
The GP does say Mr A is unable to work because driving would be unsafe. But there is no 
explanation for this opinion or detail on how Mr As ability to drive would be restricted. So I 
dont think its persuasive enough on its own. 
Mr A did consult with his GP and request painkillers on several occasions between June and 
December 2020. But his prescriptions arent consistent every month and he confirms to the 
GP he only sometimes needs to take pain relief. So this treatment also isnt enough to show 
Mr A meets the disability definition 
Ive carefully considered Mr As physiotherapy as it took place during the period in question. 
Mr A argues his physiotherapist said he was totally disabled. But I havent seen any 
evidence to support this. Ive been provided with a discharge letter that shows Mr A received 
treatment from September 2020 to February 2021. It confirms Mr A completed a successful 
course of physiotherapy. But the letter doesnt give any medical opinion on Mr As ability to move or his restrictions. So I dont think it shows Mr A meets the definition of disability. 
In addition, the discharge letter suggests Mr A only had three treatment sessions. His 
medical records show one took place in September 2020, another was booked for 
November and then a final session took place before the discharge letter was issued at the 
start of February. But it appears Mr A may have missed one of his sessions due to falling 
unwell with Covid-19. So there isnt much that can be taken from this treatment and I dont 
think its enough to support that Mr A was disabled.  
Chubb have based their decision following a review of the evidence by their CMA. The CMA 
said there was evidence of musculoskeletal shoulder pain. But there wasnt detail about the 
limitations to shoulder movement. It was their opinion that a 6-8 weeks benefit would be a 
fair period for musculoskeletal shoulder pain.  
The terms of Mr As policy say that Chubb can only make a settlement limited to the CMAs 
assessment of reasonable losses. Chubb had already made more than 8 weeks worth of 
total disability payment to Mr A between May-July 2020. So I dont think it was unfair for 
Chubb to say they were unable to provide any further benefits.
I note Mr As comments that he was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic because he wasnt 
able to have more consultations or see specialists. But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest further medical intervention was required or the GP thought any referral was 
necessary. Mr A did have an x-ray around June 2021 and nothing was found. He says at this 
point his shoulder was better. So Im not persuaded he required further treatment, but was 
unable to receive it.
On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for Chubb to rely on their CMA opinion 
because there wasnt enough persuasive medical evidence to show Mr A met the definition 
of disability under his policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman