DRN-1658912
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly rejected her 
pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs W had a pet insurance policy with Red Sands, providing cover for her pet dog, S.
Unfortunately, S was involved in an accident in June 2019  and he required veterinary 
treatment. Mrs W tried to claim on her insurance policy for the cost of that treatment. She 
explained that S had been with her husband who works on a golf course.
Mrs W told Red Sands that S had been in an office but had got out into the office yard and 
had been hit by a golf buggy. Mrs W said she didnt know how S got out into the yard, but 
that the office door may have been open.
Red Sands reviewed Mrs Ws claim and rejected it on the basis that reasonable care had not 
been taken in keeping S secure while in the office.
Mrs W contested this, she thinks its unfair and that S was simply involved in an accident, 
something she took the policy out to cover. Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter 
was referred to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ws concerns. He agreed that Red Sands had unfairly 
rejected the claim, saying that S hadnt really escaped from the office. This was because
Mrs W had explained that S is allowed to roam free in the yard anyway. So, it wasnt like he 
had strayed onto a road or public area.
Red Sands did not agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with the investigator in this case, for largely the same reasons.
Mrs Ws insurance policy covers vet fees arising from accidents. But it also has a number of 
conditions and exclusions. Red Sands believes a condition wasnt met and so that means an 
exclusion applies. Specifically, theyre relying on condition 10.1.4, which states:
You must ensure your pet cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in which 
a dog is kept must be secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured and all 
reasonable steps must be taken to prevent escape. When loading your pet into or out of your 
vehicle, you must ensure that the area is either secure or your pet is on a lead.
Red Sands says Mrs W told them S had escaped from her husbands office and had walked 
out onto the golf course. Therefore, I believe its relying on the following exclusion to reject 
the claim:
We shall not be liable under this policy unless you have complied with all the terms, 
conditions and endorsements of this policy.
The focus in this case seems to have been on how S was able to escape from the office. 
Mrs W says she doesnt know how that happened and that she merely speculated that the 
door had been left open. 
But Mrs W has explained that S is free to roam in the office yard, which is only accessible via 
a private gated road. Therefore I dont believe it can reasonably be said that S escaped from 
anywhere. Looking at the condition I consider its purpose is to exclude cover for accidents, 
arising from unleashed dogs straying to somewhere theyre not supposed to be. In this 
instance S hadnt strayed from the yard where he is allowed to frolic. 
Ive thought about whether the office yard was appropriately fenced or otherwise secured, as 
is also required by the condition. But given that the accident happened within the yard I dont 
think this is material to the claim. Because fencing wouldnt have prevented the accident 
from happening.
Overall, I think Red Sands rejection of the claim based on the condition and exclusion cited 
was unfair.
Putting things right
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should deal with Mrs Ws claim subject to 
the remaining policy terms. Interest, at the rate of 8% per annum simple, should be added to 
any payments due  calculated from the date of loss to the date payment is issued.
HM Revenue and Customs requires Red Sands to deduct tax from this interest. Red Sands 
must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman