DRN-4002283
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr R took out on the advice and recommendation of a 
broker firm that is part of Connells Limited. Hes unhappy that the mortgage offer Connells 
arranged expired before his new home was ready to move into and the new mortgage offer 
that replaced it was on a higher interest rate. 
 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr R and Connells. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief 
summary of the key points, and then focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr R was referred to Connells to arrange his mortgage by his housebuilder; he was buying a 
home that was scheduled to be ready to occupy in October 2022 (albeit that would later be 
delayed). A mortgage offer was issued by a lender Ill call H in May 2022, with an expiry date 
of 30 September 2022. Mr R says Connells advisor assured him there was a process for 
extending the offer, but what actually happened when he tried to invoke that was that H 
issued a new mortgage offer. As interest rates had risen in the interim, the new offer came 
with a higher interest rate, which Mr R has calculated will cost him more than £5,000 over 
the initial fixed rate period
When he complained, Connells apologised and admitted it could have explained things 
better. When the case came to us, our investigator agreed that Connells had failed to 
manage Mr Rs expectations correctly, but didnt consider it fair that Connells should be 
liable for Mr Rs increased mortgage payments. Instead, he recommended it pay him £100 
compensation for not properly explaining at the outset that a new offer (not an extension of 
the original offer) could be at a different interest rate.
Connells agreed to pay the £100, but only if Mr R did too. It said that if Mr R sked for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, it would ask for a review too. Mr R did ask for the 
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and it has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Connells isnt to blame for the mortgage offer expiring and having to be renewed; 
thats a function of the build schedule, which was always open to variation. Meanwhile, Im 
satisfied that both Connells and Mr R knew, or should have known, that the first offer from H 
would expire before the property would be ready, even if it had not been delayed.
Its not in dispute that Connells gave Mr R an inadequate explanation of what would happen 
when the original offer expired. Based on what it told him, Mr R thought the original 
mortgage offer would be extended on the same terms. What he needed to understand, and 
Connells needed to have told him clearly and unambiguously, was that a new offer would 
replace the original, and that the interest rate on the new offer might be different. I say 
different because the new rate could have been lower, if the wider trend in interest rates 
generally had been downward rather than upward. 
So this was a communication failure on Connells part, and I have to consider the impact on 
Mr R of that failure. In asking for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, Mr R has 
reiterated his belief that hes £5,000 out of pocket due to Connells poor communication. I do 
understand why he thinks that, and Im not unsympathetic towards his strength of feeling. 
However, I dont agree that Connells caused that extra cost, and Ill explain why.
Where a business gives information that is wrong (or in this case unclear) our aim is to put 
the consumer in the position theyd be in if the right information, free from any ambiguity, had 
been given in the first place. The reality here is that the extra amount Mr R has to pay on his 
mortgage was always going to happen, regardless of what Connells told him or failed to tell 
him. 
Thats because interest rates generally, and Hs rate specifically, rose between the first and 
second offer. The only way that situation could have been avoided is if the house had been 
ready ahead of schedule, and Mr C had been able to complete on the terms of the first offer. 
But if Connells had explained things to Mr R properly at the outset, it would not have come 
as such a shock to him when H issued the new offer with the higher rate.
Ive no doubt it did come as unwelcome news to Mr R, a first time buyer for whom everything 
that unfolded was a new experience. For the stress this caused him, I consider £100 
compensation to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Connells Limited to pay Mr R £100. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman