DRN-4425318
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc erroneously set up a Bounce Back Loan in his own 
name, rather than that of his company  meaning he is personally liable for its repayment. 
This issue has also left Mr O unable to obtain a term extension under the Loan Schemes 
Pay As You Grow options.
What happened
Mr O is the owner and director of a limited company, which Ill refer to as U.
Mr O holds a business account with HSBC, which he opened in 2008, but it is in his own 
name rather than Us. 
In May 2020, Mr O applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000. He was attempting 
to apply for the loan on Us behalf, and provided the companys name and registration 
number in the online application form. But he also indicated that he was applying through an 
existing account with HSBC  which U didnt have, but he did  and the account details he 
provided were those of his own HSBC account. So HSBC processed the application on the 
basis that Mr O was the borrower.
HSBC accepted the application and issued a loan agreement to Mr O, in which it named him 
as the borrower. Mr O signed and returned the agreement to HSBC, and the loan funds were 
drawn down to his business account on 17 May 2020. 
HSBC reviewed the application in December 2020 and identified the entity mismatch  
noting that it had been made in Us name, but the agreement had then been set up in Mr Os 
name instead. It attempted to contact Mr O to novate the loan  i.e. to transfer it  to U. But 
the bank couldnt reach him, so the loan remained unchanged. 
The banks record of the entity mismatch meant that Mr Os access to the Loan Schemes 
self-serve Pay As You Grow (PAYG) options was blocked. So he couldnt arrange a term 
extension when attempting to do so in May 2021. He contacted HSBC, and the bank 
arranged for its specialist team to contact Mr O to discuss a way forward  but it was unable 
to reach him.
With the matter unresolved, Mr O raised a complaint. HSBC said it had tried to call Mr O on 
27 July, 30 July and 10 August without success, and so had emailed him asking that he 
make contact with the specialist team. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong, and 
again invited Mr O to contact the dedicated team to move matters forward.
Mr O raised a further complaint in January 2022. He said that HSBC had told him to visit a 
branch with information about U, and that having done so he was told that the necessary 
changes would be made. But no changes had been made  so he was still being held 
personally liable for the debt, which was affecting his credit file, and he couldnt arrange the 
term extension he wanted to reduce the monthly repayments. 
HSBC reiterated that Mr O would need to call its specialist team, and said that he could refer 
his complaint to us if he remained unhappy  which he did. The complaint was reviewed by 
one of our investigators, but she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. As Mr O didnt 
accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to review. 
My provisional findings
I have shared two provisional decisions with the parties setting out my thoughts on this 
complaint.
On the matter of the loan being held in Mr Os name, rather than Us, I said:
The starting point is the loan agreement, which named Mr O  rather than U  as the 
borrower. Mr O signed that agreement, so there is a contract between him and HSBC 
under which he has committed to repaying the loan. 
That being said, theres no dispute that Mr O named U as the applicant in the 
application form. But because Mr O incorrectly provided the details of a bank account 
held in his own name  rather than Us  in that application, this request was 
overridden by HSBC and the application was treated as having been made in Mr Os 
name. While Mr O told us that he believed the account had been set up in Us name, 
that wasnt the case. And I thought it wouldve been obvious from the account 
statements and online banking that he was the accountholder.
I didnt think Mr O wouldve known that the consequences of such an error (in using 
details of an account held in his own name rather than Us) would be so significant. 
And it was only because of the unique nature of the Loan Scheme  with largely 
automated online application processes in order to process applications, and provide 
lending, as quickly as possible  that such a discrepancy was left unchallenged. So I 
sympathised with the position Mr O found himself in, although noted that he couldve 
queried things on receipt of the loan agreement  that named him rather than U as 
the borrower  if this wasnt in line with his expectations.
Irrespective of where fault for the situation lay, it didnt seem right to me that Mr O 
was left with personal liability for a business loan used by his company  a loan that 
he wasnt eligible to receive, that HSBC ought not to have provided to him and that 
he didnt have the means to repay. So setting aside the issue of responsibility, I 
acknowledged that the ideal solution would be to move liability for the loan from Mr O 
to U. 
I could see that HSBC had made some attempts to initiate the process of transferring 
the loan from Mr O to U  recognising that things werent right. Its internal records 
evidenced that it had made three attempts to call Mr O in December 2020 with a view 
to discussing this  but hadnt reached him. So HSBC had made some effort to sort 
things out, although noted it wouldve been helpful  particularly once it had been 
unable to reach Mr O by phone  if the bank had followed up in writing, especially as 
it hadnt noted leaving Mr O a voicemail either. It seemed Mr O had remained 
unaware of the issue, until finding he was unable to access the PAYG options in May 
2021. There appeared to have been a breakdown in communication in trying to 
resolve the matter thereafter.
Taking all these points into account, I initially said that I intended to require HSBC to 
novate the loan from Mr O to U  unless it wasnt permitted to do so under the rules set by the British Business Bank (BBB), the government-owned bank that 
administers the Loan Scheme. 
In response to that proposal, HSBC sent further information that evidenced changes 
to the rules of the Loan Scheme, which said novating a loan between different legal 
entities (such as from an individual to a limited company, as would be required here) 
would only be possible in very limited circumstances. And such circumstances didnt 
apply here, so I accepted that the Loan Scheme rules prevented HSBC from 
novating the loan from Mr O to U. 
HSBC also explained that the loan had now been defaulted, with a final demand 
having been issued following the accrual of significant arrears. I thought this was 
relevant too, as I wouldnt generally expect a lender to agree to a change of borrower 
in such circumstances. 
Given that the loan couldnt be novated under the BBB rules, and in light of the 
significant arrears position and the fact that I didnt think it was wholly down to HSBC 
that the loan had been set up in Mr Os name in the first place, I didnt think I could 
fairly require HSBC to novate the loan. 
On the unavailability of the PAYG options, I said:
The entity mismatch issue that HSBC identified led it to block Mr Os access to the 
PAYG options, including term extensions and payment holidays that reduce the 
borrowers monthly payments. But if it wasnt able or willing to novate the loan to 
address the mismatch  instead requiring that the loan remain in Mr Os name  then 
I could see no valid reason for declining to offer Mr O the same level of support that 
was available to other borrowers under the Loan Scheme.
The block was a consequence of the banks identification in December 2020 that the 
loan was intended for U rather than Mr O. I thought HSBC couldve done more at that 
time to resolve the issue, or at least make Mr O aware of it, such that the block need 
not have been necessary. For example, it couldve written to him asking him to get in 
touch  and making him aware of the possible consequences of not doing so. 
Even if the loan needed to be transferred to U, I didnt think it was fair to deprive 
Mr O of access to the PAYG support while that was outstanding. There was no 
suggestion of Mr O having attempted to defraud the bank, and the position had left 
him personally in a far worse position than would otherwise have been the case. And 
by the time HSBC was telling Mr O to call in to resolve the issue, the BBB guidance 
that HSBC was now relying upon wouldve been in force  so it wouldnt have been 
able to novate the loan anyway. 
While access to the PAYG options may have helped Mr O at the time, matters had 
evidently moved on while the complaint had been with us, such that the level of 
difficulty Mr O was experiencing had left him unable to afford the loan repayments 
altogether. I didnt think Mr Os inability to access the PAYG options had a bearing on 
this, given the level of the arrears. In other words, I thought he would always have 
ended up in a position of arrears and default even if HSBC hadnt unfairly blocked his 
access to the PAYG options. 
The PAYG options arent available once a loan is defaulted, so I couldnt require 
HSBC to offer these in light of Mr O defaulting on his loan. And while I noted Mr Os request for payments to be deferred, this wasnt something I could instruct the bank 
to do either  and instead hed need to liaise with the bank as to his options.
Even though Mr O may not have been left financially worse off than he would 
otherwise have been, I thought that HSBCs unreasonable denial of his access to the 
PAYG options had caused him some avoidable distress and inconvenience  in 
exacerbating the stress caused by loan repayments that were higher than they ought 
to have been at the time, and in him having to pursue the matter by way of complaint 
to access the support that shouldve been available to him previously. So I thought 
HSBC should pay him compensation of £250 for this.
HSBC agreed to pay Mr O the £250 compensation as I provisionally instructed. But Mr O 
hasnt accepted this, and reiterated his request that the loan be transferred to U.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as that of my second provisional 
decision  in that I dont think I can fairly require HSBC to novate the loan to U, and that 
£250 compensation represents a fair way to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why Mr Os 
further points havent changed my mind  albeit I will focus on the points that I consider most 
relevant to how Ive reached my decision, rather than addressing everything hes said.
Firstly, Mr O remains adamant that the account details he provided when applying for the 
loan were for a business account held by his company. But that is not the case. He says Ive 
made an error by referring to the account as a personal account, but that is not what Ive 
said. The account was (and is) a business account  but it is a business account held in 
Mr Os name, not Us. 
Mr O argues that if the account was indeed set up in his own name, then this too was an 
error on HSBCs part. He asks that I investigate the account-opening to establish this. I dont 
consider that necessary. Even if I accept that the account should always have been in Us 
name, I think its reasonable to suggest that Mr O ought to have spotted the error and 
queried this with the bank at some point prior to the loan application  given the account 
statements and all other documentation, online facilities and the like wouldve referred to him 
as the accountholder. So I dont think it would be fair to attribute the problems hes since had 
with the loan to such an error, with the account having operated for some 12 years without 
query.
Mr O has also reiterated that he named U as the intended borrower when asking for the 
loan, which I agree with. As Ive said, it is unfortunate that this mismatch wasnt picked up 
before the loan was processed. But I dont think that this oversight on HSBCs part is the 
sole cause of the situation that has arisen. 
Mr O also disputes that HSBC made attempts to contact him about the possible novation of 
the loan in December 2020, but the banks internal records show that they did and Ive no 
reason to doubt their authenticity. As noted previously, its regrettable that HSBC didnt 
follow up in writing.
As Ive said throughout, I do have some considerable sympathy for the position Mr O finds 
himself in. HSBC holds some responsibility for the loan being in his name rather than Us, 
and the situation has doubtless had  and may continue to have  a significant impact on 
him. Mr O understandably queries why HSBC get the benefit of the doubt in processing the loan application in the manner it did due to the circumstances of the time, but hes not given 
the same for signing an agreement in his own name in the belief that it was for his company. 
But I have recognised that Mr O isnt wholly responsible for this situation. The issue is about 
how to put that right. Ultimately, if the rules allowed HSBC to novate the loan from Mr O to U 
then thats something Id likely be instructing. But they do not. The bank has evidenced that 
the rules of the Scheme do not permit such a change. 
Given this, and the broader circumstances including the level of arrears that have since 
accrued, I dont think this is something I can fairly require of HSBC. I note Mr Os 
unhappiness at the arrears being a factor in my view on this, given he sees this as a result of 
HSBCs blocking his access to PAYG options. But the level of arrears is such that the PAYG 
options wouldnt, in my view, have enabled Mr O to maintain the repayments anyway. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr O as I appreciate his understandable strength of feeling 
over this issue, Im not instructing HSBC to take any further action in response to this 
complaint beyond paying him £250 compensation should he wish to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Mr O compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman