DRN:DRN-1000496
complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank Plc when she called to find 
out why she hadnt received a contactless bank card. She says she was discriminated 
against because of her nationality.
background
Mrs A contacted Lloyds as shed received a letter telling her she would be sent a contactless 
debit card  which she hadnt received. Mrs A says the call handler she spoke to was rude 
and unhelpful. When she asked to raise a complaint, the call handlers response was that 
there wouldnt be any money in it for her.
Mrs A complained to Lloyds. It investigated and explained that her account was being 
upgraded, which meant she would be eligible for a contactless card. But it said she would 
only be sent a new card automatically once her existing card expired. Lloyds confirmed that 
because Mrs A had requested one, the call handler did order her a contactless card. Lloyds 
accepted the level of service provided by the call handler was poor, apologised and paid 
Mrs A £50 compensation to recognise this.
Mrs A wasnt happy with Lloyds response so she brought her complaint to our service where 
it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator said our service isnt able to 
make a finding on whether Lloyds discriminated against Mrs A. But she reviewed the level of 
service Mrs A received and didnt think Lloyds offer was a fair resolution to her complaint. 
She recommended that Lloyds should increase the compensation to £100 to recognise the 
poor service.
Mrs A didnt agree that £100 was sufficient; she felt it should be increased to £2,000. She 
also wanted a written apology from the head of Lloyds. Our investigator considered 
everything Mrs A told her about the impact of the errors and suggested that Lloyds increase 
the offer to £250  which it accepted. But she explained that our service couldnt direct a 
specific staff member at Lloyds to provide an apology.
Mrs A remained unhappy, so because no agreement has been reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that the level of customer service Mrs A received was poor, and that she 
should be paid some compensation. The issue that remains for me to decide is what amount 
of compensation is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of Mrs As complaint.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs A and the call handler. I agree it wasnt handled well. 
The call handler doesnt seem to understand the issue Mrs A is raising, and instead of 
asking further questions or seeking help from a colleague, she makes suggestions for 
actions Mrs A couldve taken which werent helpful or appropriate in the circumstances. When Mrs A says she wants to raise a complaint the call handler becomes defensive, 
advising the complaint wont be upheld and stating the bank hadnt made an error. She also 
didnt set up the complaint as she shouldve done, despite advising Mrs A that she would. 
She did though order Mrs A a new contactless debit card.
Mrs A says the service she received left her devastated. Shes also pointed out further 
issues, such as Lloyds final response letter saying that it treats complaints about 
discrimination lightly. Shes said this added to the stress and upset she experienced. 
Based on everything that happened, Mrs A feels that she should be awarded £2,000 
compensation.
Lloyds has said the wording on the final response was a mistake  and I think its likely that it 
was. Lloyds has explained the reason why Mrs A wasnt initially provided with a contactless 
card, and has now provided one. It has accepted the level of service Mrs A received was 
poor, apologised in writing and paid some compensation. It has also confirmed that feedback 
has been given to call handlers manager to try and prevent this issue happening again. I 
think the measures Lloyds took to resolve the complaint are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But I dont think that £50 is sufficient compensation to recognise the impact 
to Mrs A.
Ive taken on board everything Mrs A has told us about the impact the service had on her 
and how it made her feel. I havent seen any evidence from either side that indicates the 
poor level of service Mrs A received was due to issues of race or nationality. But I 
understand Mrs A found the situation distressing.
Taking into account whats happened and everything Lloyds has already done to correct the 
issue; I dont think it would be fair to direct Lloyds to pay £2,000 compensation for trouble 
and upset. I think that amount is disproportionately high considering the issues that 
occurred, even considering everything Mrs A told us about the impact it had on her. 
Based on everything Mrs A has told us, and taking into account our services published 
guidance on awards for trouble and upset, I think £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation in the circumstances. I understand that Mrs A has already received £50 from 
Lloyds, so I think it needs to pay a further £200 to fairly resolve her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mrs As complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should:
pay Mrs A £200 to recognise the trouble and upset she experienced as a result of the 
level of service it provided
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
 
Adam Golding
ombudsman