DRN-3258068
Complaint
Miss B has complained about an overdraft limit increase The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) provided to her. She says the overdraft limit increase must have been unaffordable 
as shes since been refused a further loan.
Background
RBS initially provided Miss B with a loan for £13,000.00 to buy a car. Unfortunately, Miss B 
had issues with the vehicle purchased and she returned it. Miss B returned to RBS for extra 
funds as the replacement vehicle was more expensive. But as Miss B had only just taken a 
loan, RBS wasnt prepared to provide another one. So Miss B applied for an overdraft limit 
increase from £1,000.00 to £1,500.00 to obtain the additional funds she needed. After 
receiving promotional materials regarding being eligible to apply for a further loan, Miss B 
was then unhappy at being refused one and complained that her overdraft must have been 
unaffordable if RBS wasnt prepared to provide her with a further loan to repay it.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and RBS had told us. And he thought RBS 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Miss Bs 
complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
RBS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
RBS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
RBS says it agreed to Miss Bs overdraft limit increase after it obtained information on her 
income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the other hand, Miss B says the 
limit increase must have been unaffordable because she was refused a further loan. Ive 
carefully thought about what Miss B and RBS have said. 
I have to start by saying that RBS asked Miss B about her income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft limit increase. The information provided did suggest what was being 
advanced was affordable. However, Im mindful that Miss B made this application less than a 
month after shed been provided with a loan for £13,000.00. And in these circumstances, I 
think that RBS should have taken a closer look at Miss Bs circumstances before agreeing to 
the limit increase.
That said, having looked through Miss Bs statements, in the lead up to the overdraft 
increase being provided, I dont think that there was anything concerning in this period of 
time. There wasnt anything in Miss Bs account transactions prior to the increase which 
contradicted what Miss B had declared during her application. And given the level of 
disposable income Miss B appears to have had at the time, Im satisfied that RBS was 
reasonably entitled to believe Miss B could repay an extra £500 within a reasonable period 
of time. So I dont think that RBS treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably when providing her 
with her overdraft limit increase. 
That said, while I dont think RBS did anything wrong when it increased Miss Bs overdraft 
limit, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B if it applied interest, fees 
and charges to Miss Bs overdraft in circumstances where it knew she was in financial 
difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through Miss Bs 
statements throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that RBS ought to have been 
aware that Miss B might have been struggling. 
Miss B did use her overdraft. But she says always intended to do this given she wanted the 
funds to make up the shortfall on her car purchase. Equally, while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Miss B expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going 
from the account. So I dont think its fair to say that the interest, fees and charges unfairly 
kept Miss B from repaying the overdraft, when she appears to have had the disposable 
income to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. In fact Miss B did go on to 
reduce what she owed and her overdraft limit.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Miss B says these charges caused her difficulty 
and led to her having to sell her possessions. Im sorry to hear that this happened. But there 
isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted RBS that this 
might have been the case and which meant that it would have been fair and reasonable to 
step in here. 
I say this while especially mindful that corrective action in relation to Miss Bs overdraft 
facility is likely to have resulted in adverse information being recorded on her credit file, 
which I think would have been disproportionate considering Miss B appeared able to repay 
what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss B, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for RBS to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I 
dont think RBS unfairly charged Miss B in circumstances where it ought to have realised 
that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
Finally, Ive also thought about what Miss B has said about being declined for a loan even 
after receiving messages suggesting she was eligible and inviting her to apply. The first thing 
to say is that RBS correspondence wasnt a guarantee of providing a further loan. It was 
merely a notification telling Miss B that she was eligible to have an application considered. 
Its not entirely clear why Miss Bs further loan application wasnt approved  although it 
looks like she may have also wanted to consolidate additional debts as well as her overdraft. 
In any event, a lender will have its own criteria for assessing loan applications. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say that a lender should have lent in 
circumstances where it carried out an assessment and the results of that assessment 
appear to have suggested it shouldnt have lent. 
Its unfortunate that RBS sent Miss B further marketing communications regarding applying 
for loans after it had already declined an application. But while I can understand why 
continuing to receive further marketing correspondence regarding being eligible to apply may 
have caused some confusion and disappointment for Miss B, I do think these were sent after 
Miss B ought to have been aware that any applications were likely to be unsuccessful. And 
while I can I understand Miss Bs disappointment, Im satisfied that what RBS has already 
paid her for any confusion caused by its correspondence, is adequate.  
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that RBS has treated Miss B unfairly. 
So Im not upholding her complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B. 
But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman