DRN-3967887
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy with what Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) has agreed to do to 
put things right after she complained about having been provided with overdrafts and the 
interest, fees and charges that were added.
Background
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Miss Ps 
accounts from May 2016 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether 
Halifax acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss P from May 2016.
Halifax has already agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added on account 1 
from March 2017 onwards and account 2 from April 2017 onwards. Our adjudicator thought 
that what Halifax had agreed to do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. 
Miss P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Halifax has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Halifax has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue charging     
Miss P for her overdraft on account 1 in the way that it did from March 2017 and account 2 
from April 2017. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to 
Miss Ps overdrafts from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Halifax has already 
done this here and as the refunds placed Miss P in a credit balance it also removed the 
overdrafts Miss P has said she shouldnt have been provided with to ensure that she doesnt 
end up entrenched in her overdrafts going forward. Im satisfied that Halifax has done what 
Id normally expect a bank to do in similar circumstances here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss P believes that Halifax should do more. As I understand it, she wants Halifax to refund 
all of the charges applied to her overdrafts since inception. But Ive already separately 
explained why we cant look at what happened on Miss Ps accounts prior to May 2016. And 
while I can understand Miss Ps disappointment, Im afraid that Halifax is perfectly entitled to 
rely on the time limit. 
Furthermore, as Halifax has concluded that it should have continued offering Miss P 
overdrafts on the same terms from the first reviews it carried out in the period that I can look 
at, Im satisfied that what it has already agreed to do is in line what Id tell it to do, if I were to 
have looked at Miss Ps complaint.   
Finally, Ive also thought about Halifaxs actions in removing Miss Ps overdrafts. Miss P may 
be unhappy with this. But as Miss P complained she should never have been provided with 
the overdrafts in the first place and she struggled to repay her overdraft charges, I dont think 
it is unfair for Halifax to take this into account or put measures in place to ensure Miss P 
doesnt accrue further charges she cant afford to pay going forwards. As this is the case, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say Halifax should continue to providing 
overdrafts to Miss P when, bearing in mind what Miss P has said, it has concluded she cant 
afford them. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that banks have been required to put in place 
strategies and measure to help customers avoid using overdrafts for prolonged periods of 
time as this is part of the regulators strategy to reduce repeat use of overdrafts by 
customers. And its possible that Halifax may well have, in any event, taken action in relation 
to Miss Ps overdraft usage irrespective of her having been successful in her complaint.  
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Halifax has already done to put things right 
for Miss P  reworking her accounts so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
March 2017 and April 2017 respectively are removed  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss P  especially as she feels as though 
shes entitled to a refund of more of the charges she paid. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman