DRN-3212696
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H have complained about the way One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim 
they made under a stand-alone Accidental Damage policy it held. 
Ill refer to Mrs H in my decision as the lead complainant.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs H made a claim to the insurer, One Insurance following an escape of 
water due to accidental means. 
Mrs H complained to One Insurance about the length of time it took to progress the claim, 
the lack of updates and a failure to provide alternative accommodation (AA). Although the 
claim was reported in August 2020 and the property was dry by mid October 2020, by 
January 2021 repairs had only recently been approved by One Insurance and works were 
scheduled to begin in February 2021. 
In January 2021 One Insurance upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part. It said it had caused 
undue delay, failed to provide updates or be proactive in the handling of the claim. And it 
said it had provided incorrect information about providing a payment for their contents claim 
when it needed further information before it could do so. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, One Insurance agreed to pay Mr and Mrs H 
£500 compensation. And it said it would reimburse them for the utility costs while their home 
was being dried out. 
One Insurance said that as Mr and Mrs H and their two young children moved into Mrs Hs 
parents home, it wasnt obliged to provide alternative accommodation. But it accepted that 
Mrs H had raised concerns in September 2020 about AA and it had failed to address them. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and in January 2021 she asked us to look at their complaint. She 
provided details of the impact One Insurances handling of the claim had on her when she 
called them for updates, and the impact of living with her parents in a three bedroom home 
during the pandemic with two young children. She explained that it wasnt suitable, there 
was no room to home school and she had frequently asked One Insurance to provide AA but 
it refused. Mrs H says the impact of living with her parents affected all of them. Her mother is 
a nurse working through the pandemic and her father is retired. She described the anxiety 
felt by her children and herself due to the prolonged period of being away from their home. 
Mrs H said they should have been home well before Christmas 2020 and the delay caused 
by One Insurance made things worse for her entire family. 
Our investigator asked One Insurance to provide its policy wording about AA  it only 
provided the policy wording for the Accidental Damage cover. This is the insured peril One 
Insurance used to define the claim. 
As One Insurance seemed to accept that AA was an option  but its decision was that it 
wasnt required in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances  our investigator took this into account in 
considering if a fair and reasonable approach had been taken by it.  
She didnt think it unusual for an insurer to offer AA where a home became uninhabitable. 
And in this case, due to the damage as described (collapsed ceilings, drying out required 
over a period of weeks) and the fact that both parties didnt dispute habitability, the 
investigator was satisfied that AA applied. 
She found that Mr and Mrs H had moved into their parents home from a three bedroom, two 
bathroom, separate dining room and study home to a much smaller three bedroom home  
and were there for a period of eight months.
She didnt think it fair for One Insurance to say that AA wasnt required  and it had provided 
no evidence to support its decision.
The investigator thought the fairest outcome was for One Insurance to pay a higher 
compensation award to Mr and Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience it had caused by 
refusing to provide AA. She thought it should pay a further £1,500, so £2,000 in total 
compensation. 
One Insurance didnt; agree. It reiterated its position that as Mr and Mrs H were able to stay 
at Mrs Hs parents, no AA was offered. It said it would only AA if they were unable to stay 
anywhere else. 
Mrs H told the investigator she feels the compensation award isnt enough to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience One Insurance caused. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at claims for AA, we look at the individual circumstances of each case. But 
broadly we consider the following:
 when is the property considered uninhabitable? 
 how long should an insurer cover AA costs? 
 what type of AA should an insurer provide? 
 what does the policy say about AA?
 are there any limits on AA? 
 what additional expenses has the consumer incurred or financial loss suffered 
because of AA? 
I think its clear from the reports provided as to the extent of the damage to Mr and Mrs Hs 
home and that it was unsafe for the family  with two young children  to live there. So Im 
satisfied that their home became uninhabitable from August 2020  when they moved into 
Mrs Hs parents home. 
One Insurance told us that Mr and Mrs H held an Accidental Damage policy with it  as well 
as Accidental Damage cover on their main home insurance policy with another underwriter. When Mr and Mrs H contacted One Call, it accepted the claim under its Accidental Damage 
policy. 
There is no provision for AA under this policy. But that doesnt mean its reasonable for One 
Insurance not to consider it. And it did consider it, but said it didnt need to provide any. So 
the remaining issue for me to decide is whether One Insurances approach here was 
reasonable. I dont think it was. 
I think its very clear from the account Mrs H gave us  and from the photos, claim notes and 
reports  that AA should have been provided for them. I dont think the fact that they were 
able to move in  initially planned for a very short period  to their parents home  as a 
reasonable explanation from One Insurance as to why it refused  and there is nothing in 
their policy wording to clarify their approach. 
As One Calls AD policy doesnt provide provision for AA, I agree with the investigators 
approach here in considering what many standard insurance policies say about AA. They 
tend to provide details of when AA will apply. As Ive said, I think the property was 
uninhabitable. Insurers tend to provide a limit on AA cover  but this varies. And an insurer 
should consider any financial loss suffered as a result of AA. The purpose of AA is generally 
to provide accommodation that is similar to the one that is uninhabitable. This clearly didnt 
apply when Mrs H and her family moved in with her parents. 
I dont think One Insurance is responsible for the remaining utility bills Mr and Mrs H paid for 
which included subscription TV and gas usage. I understand One Insurance has fully 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs H for the electricity costs incurred during the drying out period  but 
that the original offer by One Insurance was approximately a tenth of the final settlement. 
I think the poor handling of the claim by One Insurance has had a considerable impact on 
Mrs H and her family. There were periods of significant unjustified delays. Mrs H provided 
the information One Insurance asked for promptly  but it failed for sometimes months at a 
time to progress the claim, provide an update, and appoint a loss adjuster. Having to deal 
with a claim of this severity would always involve disruption and upheaval. But I think One 
Insurances poor handling of the claim and the lack of updates to Mrs H made an already 
difficult time significantly worse for her and her family. 
I understand that Mrs H is unhappy with the compensation award recommended by the 
investigator. She feels it doesnt reflect the impact the poor handling  and the failure to 
provide AA  has had. Mrs H doesnt want other customers to go through what she and her 
family went through. 
As the investigator explained, we can look at the individual circumstances of each case. And 
we are not here to punish a business. One Insurance is regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our role is to look at the complaint brought by Mr and Mrs H and to resolve it in a 
fair and reasonable way. The awards which we give are modest and we keep in mind that 
having to deal with a claim of this nature  even when things go well  can have a major 
impact on everyone involved. 
I realise Mrs H may be disappointed with my decision. But Ive taken a holistic approach in 
considering a fair and reasonable outcome for Mr and Mrs H in their complaint. I think One 
Insurance should increase the compensation it pays Mr and Mrs H to a total of £2,000. I 
think its poor handling of the claim and refusal to offer AA for a period of eight months 
caused considerable distress and inconvenience over and above what would have already 
been incurred as a result of the insured event..My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
One Insurance Limited to increase the compensation it pays Mr and Mrs H from £500 (if it 
hasnt already paid it) by a further £1,500 bringing the total amount to £2,000.
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman