DRN-4071308
The complaint
Mr K complains AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) irresponsibly lent to him. He also says that 
it acted unfairly when selling his account to a third party.
What happened
Avant approved Mr K for a £2,800 loan in November 2016. The term of the loan was 36 
months, with repayments of effectively £120 per month.
Mr K says Avant acted irresponsibly when it approved the loan. He says he was in financial 
difficulties when he applied for the loan. He also complains that Avant has acted unfairly in 
the management of the account after this date too. He says he recently received a letter 
from a third party whom Avant had sold the debt too, saying he still owes a significant portion 
of the loan.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint.
Avant and Mr K are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and irresponsible
lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set the detail here.
Avant needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was not
irresponsibly lent to Mr K. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Avant lent
effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks
needed to assess Mr Ks ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term,
without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
In addition to this, it wasnt sufficient for Avant to just complete proportionate checks  it also
had to consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending
decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring
repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further.
This loan was £2,800 and was listed as being used for debt consolidation. Avant says that it
completed a search of Mr Ks credit file and completed an affordability assessment by asking
Mr K for information on his income and main expenses. It says it also verified Mr Ks
declared income via an online tool which showed the amount was in line with what had been
declared.
Mr K declared his income to be £1,500 per month. The online tool verified an average
income of approximately £1,450. Mr Ks total debt at the time was made up from five
unsecured loans totalling around £22,800 (which was around the same level as Mr Ks
annual income). The searches Avant completed at the time suggested that Mr K had taken
around £2,800 of this total amount in the past 12 months.
Mr K declared that his total expenses each month amounted to £840. This included his
repayments to his existing credit commitments, as well as the cost of his rent, car and food.
Avants affordability assessment meant that Mr K would have a disposable income of around
£660. Avant says these checks combined were proportionate and showed that its decision to
lend was fair.
Ive considered Avants argument in regards to proportionality but I disagree with it in this
instance.
Whilst I acknowledge the loan being advanced was for a relatively low amount, Im satisfied
the information Avant received demonstrated that further checks were required. I note that
Mr Ks overall level of debt was equal to his total annual income and had been continuing to
increase over the past 12 months. Whilst the loan was listed as being for debt consolidation,
I also note the amount being lent was not enough to consolidate the vast majority of his
existing debt. In particular I note that his biggest commitments (one loan owing
approximately £13,000 and another owing £4,700) would still remain after any potential
consolidation.
Im also not persuaded that the declared expenses in the affordability assessment was
sufficient to rely upon. In particular I note that Mr K placed a very low amount (£40) for food
expenses. There were no calculations taken for other bills outside of his car (£100) and his
rent (£200). The information Avant had received from the credit file search also
demonstrated that the listed amount for Mr Ks monthly payments to his existing creditors
(£500), was also inaccurate.
Taking this into account, and also remembering that Avant needed to carefully consider the
information it was presented with, Im satisfied there were sufficient doubts raised over the
affordability of this loan for it to complete further checks. In particular, Im satisfied it needed
to do more to verify Mr Ks outgoings to ensure he could sustainably repay this loan. As
Avant didnt do this, it follows that Im not satisfied it completed reasonable and proportionate
checks in this instance.
As proportionate checks were not completed in this instance; Ive gone on to consider what
further checks wouldve likely shown. Our service has asked Mr K to provide further
information; but he has not been able to do so as of the time of writing. So, with that in mind
Ive made my decision on the information which is currently available.
Having done so, whilst Im satisfied there were indications which suggested further checks
shouldve been completed; Ive not seen persuasive enough information to say, on balance,
that the loan wouldve been unaffordable to Mr K.
Whilst I have some doubts over the veracity of the assessment carried out and the
information relied on, Ive not seen anything in what was gathered which demonstrates that
the loan was clearly unaffordable for Mr K.
Avant has said that by taking out this loan and consolidating down some of his existing debts
Mr Ks monthly outgoings towards his credit commitments wouldve reduced. It says itwouldve reduced from approximately £960 to potentially £730 (depending on which loans
Mr K consolidated). And, on the face of things this doesnt look unreasonable.
So, in the absence of persuasive information to the contrary, even though Avants checks
werent proportionate, Ive not seen enough here to persuade me that further checks would
have shown it that it was unfair to lend in this instance. So, it follows that Im satisfied, based
on what Ive currently seen, that Avant made a fair decision to lend.
Mr K also complains that Avant acted unfairly in selling his debt to a third party. He says he
had not contact with Avant for a number of years, and recently received a letter from the
third party saying he still owes a significant amount.
Avant has provided our service contact notes from Mr Ks account. These show that the last
meaningful interaction with Mr K was in June 2019. At this point Mr Ks account was showing
some signs of distress and he contacted Avant to inform it he had been made redundant a
couple of months prior. The notes suggest that Avant offered sign posting advice, but Mr K
declined this. The notes suggest Mr K was starting a new job and expected to be able to
make repayments again thereafter. The notes suggest Avant did an affordability assessment
with Mr K at this point, including his priority debts, and agreed a suitable repayment going
forward.
After this point there is no further communication from Mr K. The notes suggest that Avant
continued to try and contact Mr K. I can see there a number of unsuccessful calls to Mr K,
with voicemails being left. I cant see any responsive communication from Mr K. The notes
go onto show that Avant continued to keep Mr K updated with the account, including issuing
notices of sums in arrears and default notices. Again, I cant see that Mr K responded to any
of these communications. Eventually the account was sold by Avant.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently minded to say that Avant has acted
reasonably in the handling of Mr Ks account. I can see that it has tried to contact Mr K
numerous times but received no response from him. It appears on balance that Avant has
acted in line with expectations in issuing default letters and then latterly selling on his debt. I
cant see Mr K has engaged meaningfully with Avant, and as such I cant say it has acted
unreasonably.
So based on the information I currently have, Im minded to say that Avant lent to Mr K fairly,
and has handled his account reasonably. Ill happily consider any further information Mr K is
able to provide in relation to the points raised in this decision. But in the current absence of
that, it follows that my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wished to 
provide. Neither party provided any new submissions before the relevant deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the findings I made in my provisional decision should 
remain.
That is to say Im not upholding this complaint. This is for the reasons set out above but in 
summary, Im satisfied that:
Avant did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. This is because there were sufficient indicators on Mr Ks application which shouldve 
prompted further checks;
Although proportionate checks were not completed, in the absence of persuasive 
evidence to the contrary, Avant made a fair decision to lend based on the information 
it had available at the time;
Avant acted fairly in the handling of Mr Ks account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman