DRN-2228884
The complaint
Mr W and Ms M complain that Moneysupermarket.com Financial Group Limited mis-sold 
them a travel insurance policy. 
They have also made a complaint against their insurer, which is being dealt with separately. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of the circumstances that led to Mr W and Ms Ms claim against their 
travel insurance policy with their insurer. 
Having looked at everything thats been provided, I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for these reasons:
Moneysupermarket.com offers a platform for consumers to enter some details about 
themselves and their requirements. Those details are then used to find insurance 
products for the consumer to consider. The features and prices of the different 
products are displayed and, after comparing them, the consumer can choose which, 
if any, policy matches their requirements.
Moneysupermarket.com didnt provide Mr W and Ms M with advice about the travel 
insurance policy. So, it was up to Mr W and Ms M to decide if the product they chose 
met their requirements. 
Moneysupermarket.com wasnt obliged to ask Mr W and Ms M questions about the 
health or well-being of their immediate family members. It was for Mr W and Ms M to 
satisfy themselves that the policy provided the cover they needed. Mr W and Ms M 
were provided with a summary of cover and had access to the policy documents from 
the insurer.  
Mr W and Ms M say that Moneysupermarket.com should change its process so that 
its clearer. This service isnt the regulator and we cant direct 
Moneysupermarket.com in relation to how it conducts its business. We can consider 
if its treated Mr W and Ms M unfairly and I dont think it has here. I think that the 
information it provided to Mr W and Ms M was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Considering everything, there are no grounds on which to direct 
Moneysupermarket.com to pay Mr W and Ms M compensation equivalent to the 
amount they would have received if their claim had been met by their insurer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman