DRN-4425950
The complaint
Mr T complains about the amounts Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid as the 
market value of his car when he claimed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T had an accident in his car when driving. His car was damaged and not safe to drive, so 
he called Advantage to claim on his policy. Advantage reviewed the claim and accepted it, it 
said the market value of Mr Ts car was £10,500 and paid this to him in settlement of his 
claim. 
Mr T wasnt happy with how Advantage handled his claim and complained. He said the 
market value wasnt enough to replace his car with one which was like for like. He also said 
hed spent too long at the side to the road following the accident and didnt think Advantage 
had handled his claim as well as it should have. Advantage reviewed the complaint and 
partly upheld it. It increased the market value to £11,000 and agreed it should have handled 
the claim better. Advantage reimbursed Mr Ts costs for getting home following the accident 
and paid him £75 as compensation for the poor claim handling. 
Mr T didnt think Advantage had fairly settled his claim and brought his complaint here. He 
also provided evidence of similar cars for sale, which were advertised for more than 
Advantage had paid as the market value of Mr Ts car. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. She thought the compensation 
Advantage had paid was fair and reasonable for what had gone wrong but didnt think 
Advantage had fairly valued Mr Ts car. She found the adverts provided by Mr T supported 
the highest value given by the valuation guides we use, and recommended Advantage 
increase the market value to £12,379. Our Investigator also recommended Advantage pay 
8% interest on the additional amount it pays to compensate Mr T for not having the money. 
Advantage didnt agree. It said the valuation of £11,000 was a fair market value and 
provided adverts of other cars to support its position. Our Investigator didnt think these 
adverts were similar to Mr Ts car and so didnt find them persuasive. 
As Advantage didnt agree with our Investigators outcome, the complaint has come to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy say that if Advantage deem his car a total loss, it 
will pay him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your Car in 
the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, 
model, age and condition.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to
use relevant valuation guides. I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide
research of sales prices. 
Only three of the four valuation guides we use produced values, and these were £9,895, 
£11,000, and £12,379. Both Mr T and Advantage have provided adverts to support their 
valuation of Mr Ts car. Some of the adverts I dont find persuasive as they have significantly 
lower mileage than Mr Ts car or are a different year of manufacture. However, three of the 
adverts Mr T provided were similar to the make, model and specification of his car and 
ranged in value from £12,250, £13,000 and £16,500. 
In response to our Investigators view Advantage provided five adverts with similar mileage 
to his car, but three of these were for a car which was older. I can also see when Advantage 
provided its initial submissions to this service it contained two adverts of similar cars to Mr 
Ts. These were advertised for £12,650 and £11,950, the lower value car had covered 
around 20,000 miles more than Mr Ts though. 
When taking into account the range of valuations and adverts Im not persuaded Advantage 
has done enough to show the valuation of £11,000 is fair and reasonable. I say this because 
the additional information it provided after our Investigators assessment doesnt show when 
these adverts are from, and so I need to be aware the valuation of Mr Ts car may have 
decreased since the accident. 
When reviewing the adverts provided initially by Advantage and the information provided by 
Mr T, Im more persuaded that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Advantage to pay the 
highest of the four valuation guides we use. I say this as its supported by Advantages 
original adverts and those of Mr T. Therefore, Advantage needs to pay Mr T a total of 
£12,379 as the market value for his car, subject to the remaining policy terms. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per year to the additional amount it pays, to compensate Mr T for not 
having the money. 
Ive also considered the poor claim handling and additional expenses Mr T incurred following 
the accident. Our Investigator thought Advantage had acted fairly in its response to these 
and Mr T agreed so I see no reason to comment on them further here.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr T £12,379 as the market value of his car. 
It also needs to add 8% simple interest per year onto the additional amount it pays, 
calculated from the date it made the original payment until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman