DRN-2503406
The complaint
Mr B complains that, when he sold shares planning to re-purchase them in his ISA, Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited didnt allow him to carry out the re-purchase until the sale had settled. 
He says the delay resulted in him losing 3,483 shares.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the 
trades had been carried out in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Mr B didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Halifax may have acted in line with its terms, but it hasnt treated him fairly.
Its not fair that transactions are treated differently depending on which channel is used 
to place the deals.
Halifax should have allowed him to purchase the shares when he phoned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
I can understand why Mr B reasonably expected to be able to carry out a bed-and-ISA 
transaction online in the same way that he had previously carried out such transactions by 
phone. But Halifax cant treat them in the same way.
When such instructions are received by phone, Halifax is able to manually input the two 
trades as sell and subscribe before the first transaction is placed with the market. It cant 
manually intervene if a client places the order online. My role does not extend to deciding 
that a business should change its policies and procedures. That is a matter for the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether Halifax treated Mr B fairly in the 
particular circumstances here.
I find that the sale and purchase were carried out in accordance with the agreed terms and 
conditions.
Whilst I appreciate Mr B didnt read it before he placed the online trade, there is specific 
guidance within the ISA section of Halifaxs share dealing platform which sets out how to 
complete a bed-and-ISA. And this sets out the difference between placing the instructions 
by phone and online. There is a warning for the online method which says:
Before you transfer investments into an ISA online, youll need to be aware that when you 
complete a sale, you will not be able to transfer this money into your Halifax Stocks and 
Shares ISA for 2 working days. Please consider that the price of your investment could 
change within this period.
I have considered carefully whether Halifax could have done more to help Mr B when he 
phoned it after hed placed the sale trade and realised there would be a delay before he was 
able to re-purchase the shares in his ISA. But, because the sale had already been dealt, it 
was too late for Halifax to input it as a sell and subscribe transaction. 
Halifax could not have allowed Mr B to purchase the shares in his ISA before the sale had 
settled. This is because it would effectively have been using other clients money to pay for 
the shares, which is in breach of the FCAs client money rules.
So, unfortunately, once Mr B had placed the sale order online, there wasnt anything Halifax 
could reasonably do to place the purchase order any quicker. Although I can see it did 
arrange to transfer the sale proceeds to Mr Bs ISA account as soon as they were received. 
I dont find it could reasonably have done anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman