DRN-2587048
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her false hope that following a 
successful payment arrangement, her arrears could be capitalised. This turned out not to be 
the case and as a result Mrs P has suffered distress and financial impact.
 
What happened
Mrs P holds a residential mortgage with Nationwide. In late 2018 Mrs Ps circumstances 
changed  she changed jobs due to health reasons. Arrears started to accrue on her 
account as a result. 
Between December 2018 and March 2019 several calls took place between Mrs P and 
Nationwide to discuss the arrears. Mrs Ps intention was to bring the account up to date and 
arrangements were put in place. These werent met and by May 2019 Mrs Ps account was 
in arrears of around £1,700.
In mid-May 2019 Nationwide carried out an affordability assessment to discuss a way 
forward. The option of capitalising the arrears was discussed. Nationwide said Mrs P would 
need to maintain her agreed payments for six months and then call back to discuss the 
possibility of capitalisation. Mrs P agreed to pay £460 per month for six months to reduce her 
arrears (contractual monthly payment plus an extra £17.93 per month).
Nationwide also recommended she speak to a debt charity organisation to help reduce the 
amount being paid towards non-priority debts, as some of her payments appeared to be 
higher than necessary. Nationwide thought these payments could be reduced, and she could 
be making more payments toward her mortgage. Mrs P said she didnt want to use a debt 
organisation and was comfortable she was paying the minimum amount to unsecured 
creditors.
Mrs Ps payment arrangement ended in November 2019. All her payments were made as 
agreed, so she contacted Nationwide to discuss next steps. Mrs P said her income and 
expenditure remained the same. Nationwide said that based on her circumstances it couldnt 
capitalise the arrears. 
Mrs P complained to Nationwide. She doesnt think it should have offered her the option to 
capitalise the arrears, to later decline it. She says Nationwide was aware of her 
circumstances in May 2019 at the time of setting up the payment arrangement. 
Nationwide said that it followed its process by discussing the option of capitalisation. But it 
shouldve made it clearer that this isnt guaranteed, as criteria needs to be met and would 
depend on an application at the end of the six-month period. Nationwide said it referred 
Mrs P to StepChange to help reduce her non-priority debts. Her income and expenditure 
review suggested savings could be made, creating a surplus that would have helped clear 
her mortgage arrears within a few months. Mrs P didnt take this action.
Nationwide accepted it could have given clearer information and awarded £25 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also said feedback would be given to the 
advisor in question.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things and thought Nationwide couldve provided clearer information 
during the call with Mrs P in May 2019. But in line with its terms and conditions he didnt 
think it wrongly refused to capitalise the arrears. He originally thought the £25 paid by 
Nationwide compensated Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience caused. He later 
recommended that this be increased to £100. 
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators opinion. She feels Nationwide should honour the 
agreement on this occasion as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps comments and explained why his view remained the 
same. Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capitilisation means the arrears will be added to the main balance and included when 
calculating the new contractual monthly payments. The account will no longer show as 
being in arrears. The rules state that a lender should not agree to capitalise the arrears 
unless there are no other options realistically available to assist the customer.
Nationwides policy is that capitilisation can be considered when a customer is unable 
to clear their arrears balance within a reasonable period of time, typically 18-24 months. 
I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a 
complaint. I note that although Nationwide might operate such a policy, it ought to 
consider every borrowers individual circumstance carefully and tailor a solution for 
them. In saying that I dont consider the decision it reached in this case was unfair. I will 
explain why.
The mortgage is a secured debt and should be paid before any unsecured debts. So, its 
usually reasonable for a lender to look for a consumer to be making only nominal payments 
towards unsecured debts before it agrees a concession.
In May 2019 Mrs Ps income and expenditure showed a surplus of around £860 after 
paying for essential expenses. From this, she was paying around £665 combined 
towards various credit and store card accounts with payments ranging between 4% and 
10% towards her balances. As this is typically more than the average minimum 
requirement, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to think Mrs P may be 
overpaying on her non-priority debts.  
Nationwide suggested Mrs P uses a debt organisation to work out a true picture of her 
finances. It thought a review could help free up a surplus that could be used to clear the 
arrears in a few months  this would avoid the need to capitalise the arrears, saving the 
balance and interest being spread over the remaining period of the mortgage.
Mrs P said she didnt want to use a debt organisation and was comfortable she was paying 
the minimum amount to unsecured creditors. She is entitled to make that choice and lenders shouldnt refuse to engage with the consumer if they dont want to speak with a debt 
organisation, or dont want to follow their advice. 
Six months later Mrs P said her circumstances remained the same and capitalisation was 
refused. Mrs P doesnt think Nationwide should have offered her the option to capitalise the 
arrears, to later decline it. She says Nationwide was aware of her circumstances in May 
2019 at the time of setting up the payment arrangement  and I agree.
Based on Mrs Ps circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to refuse
capitalisation. But I do think based on what it knew about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time 
of setting up the payment arrangement it could have better managed her expectations.
I dont think it was unreasonbale for Nationwide to suggest Mrs P reviews her finances, 
as it would be more beneficial in the long term to increase her monthly payments on her 
mortgage to clear the arrears sooner, instead of capitilising the arrears, costing her 
more over the term of the mortgage. Based on the income and expenditure information 
Mrs P provided, it appeared she may be overpaying on non-priority debts. 
As of May 2020, Mrs Ps account was still in arrears. Its not clear whether shes since 
been able to clear the arrears. If this isnt the case, she should liaise with Nationwide 
again to reassess her current circumstances so it can consider suitable options. 
Whilst capitalising the whole arrears balance was not previously in Mrs Ps best 
interests, there are other options available. Nationwide should engage with Mrs P if she 
wants. She has told us that her circumstances have recently changed as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Her children arent able to contribute as much to houshold costs. 
Nationwide has accepted that it should have provided clearer information during the call in 
May 2019. It has paid Mrs P £25 compensation. In the circumstances I dont think this fairly
compensates her for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think an award of £250 better
reflects the impact on her. I say this because for six months she was under the impression 
that capitalisation would go ahead. If clearer information was provided and she knew why 
the referral to debt charities was so essential, she would have a more realistic understanding 
of the situation and couldve possibly taken steps to review her circumstances sooner to 
reduce the arrears. Instead she set up a minimal payment plan and only slightly reduced the 
arrears over the following six-month period, whilst under the impression that consolidation 
would be agreed if the payment arrangement was maintained.
  
Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained I believe £250 compensation better reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs P a further £225 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman