DRN-3052177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around October 2016, Mr and Mrs P were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call S to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of S, Mr and Mrs P decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In July 2017, Mr and Mrs P complained to S and made a claim under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. Their complaint letter contained the following complaint points:
they did not receive hard copies of the point of sale documentation; 
they signed on a tablet believing that the contract was self-funding over a 5-10 year 
period; 
the financial returns are much lower than what was promised at the point of sale; and
they werent given the opportunity to read and digest the information.
In its final response letter Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information it held on file, as 
well as information provided by S, that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Mr and Mrs P or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it 
said:
the contract S had provided Mr and Mrs P set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system was 
not self-funding immediately and that there would be a cost involved; and
the contract with S showed that the total cash price of the panels was £8,100 but the 
total amount payable after interest was added to the loan was £9,879.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs P referred the complaint to this service. 
In May 2020, Mr and Mrs P asked the CMC to take over their claim. The CMC wrote to us 
and said that, following a cold call, S had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr and Mrs P to enter into the contract with S. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
S told Mr and Mrs P that the solar panels would be making £32,641.52; 
Mr and Mrs P were told that the system would be self-funding and make money; 
Mr and Mrs P thought that the system was a risk-free investment with a guaranteed 
profit; 
the feed in tariff (FIT) payments would cover the loan repayments; and
the benefit calculation by S was reckless and false.
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information and 
evidence provided, our investigator thought the benefits of the system were misrepresented 
as the system is underperforming compared to the estimations provided at the point of sale. 
The investigator recommended that Shawbrook should reduce the total amount payable by 
Mr and Mrs P so that it equalled the benefits the system would generate over the original 
loan term.
Shawbrook and the CMC did not respond, so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs P could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the same 
way they could have claimed against S, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs P and S, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of 
Shawbrook.For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and parts of Mr and Mrs Ps solar quote, titled Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the 
alleged representations made by S.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs Ps recollection of the sale.
Shawbrook have provided detailed information explaining Ss sale processes. This detailed 
that Ss sales practice was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers shortly after the 
initial meeting via email. We have only been provided with parts of Mr and Mrs Ps quote, but 
these are the more relevant parts. We have seen many other quotes from S in relation to 
other customers, so were aware of their general content. Based on our experience of what 
we have seen with similar complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, S 
would have sent this document to Mr and Mrs P and I have no reason to doubt thats what 
happened in this complaint. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.Self-funding
Mr and Mrs P have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by their FIT payments over a 5-10 year period. Ive considered the 
quote that was provided by S and considered whether this supports what they say they were 
told as I consider the quote was central to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income 
over 20 years. My understanding is that the system would only receive FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been used in the quote.
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs P could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £120.89 from their FIT.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs P could expect from the 
system as well as any savings they would make from taking out any optional extras including 
a voltage optimiser. The expected year one electricity savings is £212.76 and voltage 
optimiser savings are £108.00. The combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£441.65. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
There is a page titled system performance and returns with a series of tables. Theres a 
section titled repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months this is the length of the loan that Mr and 
Mrs P entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 60 monthly payments 
of £128.78 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the system, averaged 
over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
The table is shown as follows:
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to their 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover their monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were 
told that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
I also think that this table shows that there would be an initial £91.98 monthly deficit that Mr 
and Mrs P would need to make up. I think that this supports their testimony of having to pay 
around £90 a month.
Total cost of the system and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs P has said that the system would be self-funding over 5-10 years and would 
provide a total income of £32,641.52.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs P were expected to have 
made a loss of £91.98 a month and in the second year this would decrease to a loss of 
£89.03 a month. It wouldnt be until the loan was repaid after five years that the expected 
benefits would exceed their monthly loan repayments, and, by my calculation, it wouldnt 
have been until around year 13 that they would have sufficiently recouped any previous 
annual losses and the system would be paying for itself.
This is set out in the following table, which was also most likely provided to Mr and Mrs P at 
the time of the sale:
This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement. This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that S made them aware that 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that S told Mr and Mrs P that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between S and Mr and Mrs P. The quote sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 1,822 kWh a year and this in turn would generate the income by way of FIT 
payments and savings in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive.
Mr and Mrs P have not provided a full years worth of FIT statements. However, between 
January 2019 and October 2019 their system generated 1,898 kWh. I think that this 
demonstrates that the system is performing better than the estimates provided at the point of 
sale.
So, based on this, I would expect Mr and Mrs P to be close to recouping any initial losses 
from the system and for it to be paying for itself. Mr and Mrs P have said that this isnt the 
case, so Ive gone on to consider whether S have overstated the potential income and 
savings Mr and Mrs P could expect to receive by, for example using unreasonable 
assumptions.
The quote S provided to Mr and Mrs P was personalised to their specific circumstances and 
used a number of underlying assumptions to calculate the income and benefits they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs P would use rather than buying it from their energy provider - therefore 
leading to savings on their energy bills, and the expected increase in utility prices alongside 
the expected annual increase in RPI inflation. 
The expected increase in utility prices and RPI were based on the Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013. And, as set out above, Im satisfied that the 
system is performing in line with the figure provided in the quote and therefore Im able to 
conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, that the FIT payments received are 
also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
However, the quote sets out that Mr and Mrs P were expected to use, or self-consume, 75% 
of the kWh generated by the system each year. This in turn would lead to a first years 
annual saving of £212.76. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the 
ONS data Ive mentioned above.
Mr and Mrs P have provided data from their OWL monitoring device. This shows that they 
have on average self-consumed 56% of the energy that their system generated. This is 
significantly lower than the estimates made by S at the point of sale. I am satisfied that this 
difference would have led to a difference in the savings that could be expected.
Im satisfied that the estimated self-consumption, and the related electricity savings, would 
have induced Mr and Mrs P into entering the contract. The actual generation and therefore 
income are significantly lower than they were promised so they have suffered a loss.
Shawbrook have not responded to the investigators assessment with any explanation or 
reason as to why these differences exist. Therefore, based on the information we have on 
file, I think its more likely than not that this amounts to a mis-representation. So, I think this 
case should be upheld.
I note the CMC has raised some additional points. But, whilst I have considered these, 
having already established there was most likely a misrepresentation at the point of sale, it is
not necessary to discuss these points in this decision.
Ill go on to explain what I think fair compensation should be on this case.
Putting things right
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact 
science and it is more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been installed at 
the property.Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give 
Mr and Mrs P a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit gained from the 
installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do this when the 
panels are working and generating green energy. I think theres an alternative that would put 
Mr and Mrs P in a fair position.
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr and Mrs P doesnt suffer 
a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should be cost 
neutral over the 5-year loan term  in summary, my aim is to make sure that total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) are equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs P from the solar panels over the 5-
year term of the loan, so they pay no more than that, and they keeps the solar panel system. 
This will put Mr and Mrs P in a cost neutral position over the loan term, meaning that theyre 
not disadvantaged by the mis-representation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs P have the following options as to 
how they would like the overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs P and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs P and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term. 
It is likely that, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs Ps monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they have paid more each month than they should have resulting in an 
overpayment balance. If so, Mr and Mrs P have been deprived of the amount of the monthly 
overpayment. And so Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs P 8% simple interest, per annum, 
on the amount of each overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
I also think that Shawbrook should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should 
put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman