DRN-3485205
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of M  a limited company, complains about the service provided by Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both M and Lloyds. I wont repeat in detail 
what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons 
for reaching the outcome I have.
M had a business account with Lloyds. In August 2019 Lloyds let M know that theyd be 
removing this long standing overdraft facility and gave six months notice for M to make 
alternative arrangements.
In February 2020 - as M had a conditional offer with another bank (B2), a solicitor on behalf 
of M contacted Lloyds to request some documents related to this account and also some 
legal documents - including deeds held by Lloyds.
Lloyds accept there was a delay in providing these documents, but they were provided on 
17 March 2020  which was after a deadline M had with B2. It was around this time that the 
full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic was starting to be felt and B2 decided it wouldnt be 
taking on new business customers due to the uncertainty the pandemic presented. 
Given the exceptional circumstances, Lloyds decided to continue to extend Ms overdraft 
facility and reviewed it every three months. M has said this caused a great deal of 
uncertainty for the business. 
M was unhappy with Lloyds and raised a complaint. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint and 
M referred it to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. As M remained unhappy, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties (or Ms legal representative) here  only the key 
ones. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before 
arriving at my decision.
Its important to state that my decision wont be considering the actions of B2 here. 
The removal of Ms overdraft facility
Its understandable given the nature of Ms business that the overdraft facility was very 
useful to have. Im satisfied that M was given adequate time (six months from August 2019) 
to make alternative business banking arrangements.
Ive also noted from Lloyds internal notes dated 30 August 2019:
Client's OD facility is an historic stocking facility that was provided some years ago 
to support the business. This facility is outside of credit policy and last years sanction 
was on the basis that RM advised client of this and that alternative plans should be 
sought to refinance/repay. 
This suggest that conversations may have taken place going back much further about Lloyds 
future intentions to remove the facility. 
Ms request to Lloyds
Around February 2020, when Ms solicitors made contact with Lloyds to request the 
necessary documentation to satisfy B2s requirements, its clear that things didnt move as 
efficiently as M wouldve liked and there may have been some misunderstanding about the 
requirement to repay the overdraft facility before Lloyds released the requested paperwork. 
Ive noted that M has provided an email dated 16 March 2020 in which Lloyds apologise for 
some of the delays.
On balance, Im not persuaded that the delays here are poor or so unreasonable to the 
extent that compensation is warranted. Of course M will have had associated legal costs to 
pay, but that will have been the case regardless of whether the account switch was 
successful or not.
Ive also kept in mind that it wasnt until around month five of the six months notice that Ms 
representatives made this request to Lloyds. Had it happened sooner (theyd been notified in 
August 2019) its possible the end result would have been different here. And, as explained 
already, whilst its unfortunate that M was unable to open a new account in March 2020 with 
B2, Im not considering their actions in this decision. 
Lloyds actions afterwards
When it became apparent that M had missed the deadline to provide information to B2 and 
subsequently that B2 werent opening new accounts, its positive and supportive that Lloyds 
continued to offer the overdraft facility to M  given that theyd previously said they were 
going to withdraw it. I acknowledge that the ongoing review every 12 weeks will have been 
unsettling for M, but I dont find this an unusual, disproportionate or unfair action by Lloyds - 
given the huge uncertainty that the COVID-19 pandemic and associated restrictions was 
causing at that time. 
Ive also noted Ms comments about the impact of Lloyds actions on his business and 
having to carry less stock. But Ive also kept in mind that Lloyds system notes also suggest 
that M possibly had previous intentions to wind down his business:
[Ms] long term goal is to sell the site and exit the trade, we have had discussions 
regarding this for a number of years now where [M] has a number of options, which 
are either to sell the trading business and receive rent for the freehold or sell the site 
completely (trading & Land).Ive seen no strong or persuasive evidence that the consequential losses M has described 
afterwards are solely because of Lloyds actions  bearing in mind the COVID-19 pandemic 
caused massive economic disruption during this time too. Ive also kept in mind that although 
B2 were unwilling to accept new business customers after March 2020, there may have 
been other banks willing to do so. 
Whilst my decision will no doubt disappoint M, it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve this dispute between M and Lloyds. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman