DRN-2143703
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage) was not of satisfactory quality. He also complains about the 
service he received from Advantage during calls he had with them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the issues Mr J has had but having considered the evidence I think 
Advantage have been reasonable here and I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Some of the concerns Mr J has are issues hes had with the garage who initially stripped 
down the transmission or with the warranty company or dealership. Im only able to consider 
the actions of the finance company here or the actions of the dealership when they 
negotiated the finance agreement on the finance companys behalf. 
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr J. The car here was 
more than seven years old and had already completed about 53,000 miles. So, Id expect 
some wear and tear.
As the car had been in Mr Js possession for less than six months when the transmission 
failed the relevant legislation assumes the fault is present at the point of supply unless the 
business can demonstrate otherwise. I can therefore see why independent inspections were 
arranged to clarify the cause of the issue. 
Those independent assessments were a little at odds with each other, but I can see that the 
business didnt try to argue the point too strongly. I think they were fair when agreeing to 
allow Mr J to reject the car and terminate his agreement.
In those circumstances wed usually ask the business to refund the consumers deposit and I 
can see Advantage agreed to do that and to add interest to that payment as Mr J has been 
deprived of that money.
They retained two monthly finance instalments in respect of the use Mr J had from the car in 
the 3,561 miles he had driven it and I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
I can also see that they agreed to settle any bill with the repairing garage.
I think the redress they offered was reasonable in the circumstances and Im not asking 
them to take any further action in respect of the quality of the car.
Mr J has asked us to request and listen to all the call recordings he had with Advantage. 
Unfortunately, Advantage havent been able to provide recordings of all the conversations 
they had with Mr J. Theyve explained that as their team were working from home during the 
pandemic some of the calls werent recorded. Whilst I understand that will be disappointing 
to Mr J I think Advantages explanation is reasonable given the exceptional circumstances 
they found themselves in.
The investigator explained the content of the calls we have been provided with. I would 
agree that Advantage could have handled the calls better with Mr J on 15 May. Their tone 
was harsh and uncalled for as Mr J had been polite throughout. Advantage have agreed to 
provide a written apology to Mr J for the way he was treated in those calls and, in the 
circumstances, I am persuaded that is sufficient.
I understand that Mr J is concerned there is evidence in calls that havent been provided 
about the parts that were missing when he moved his car to another repairer. Ive not been 
supplied with calls that demonstrate that. But, even if I had been, I dont think it would have 
changed my view that the redress Advantage have now offered is fair. Their responsibility 
was for the quality of the car they were financing for Mr J and they have now accepted 
rejection of that vehicle and have put things right for Mr J.
Putting things right
Its my understanding that the redress Advantage offered has now been carried out but for 
clarity Ill set that out again here.
Advantage should allow Mr J to reject the car and collect it at no cost to him.
They should refund any deposit Mr J has paid and they should add 8% interest to that refund 
as Mr J has been deprived of the money.
They should refund all finance instalments Mr J has paid but may retain two instalments in 
respect of the use Mr J has had from the car.
Advantage will need to settle any outstanding bill with the garage who were repairing the transmission and they should provide a written apology for the way their agents spoke to Mr 
J during the calls he had with them.  
I understand that Mr J would like the cancellation fee for his insurance refunded but Im not 
asking Advantage to do this. It was Mr Js decision to cancel the insurance and incur a 
charge before the case was resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am upholding this complaint in part and telling Advantage 
Finance Ltd, unless they have already done so, to:
cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr J;
retain two finance instalments in respect of the use Mr J has had from the car;
refund any deposit that was paid by Mr J and add 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
settle any outstanding bill with the repairer of the transmission;
provide a written apology to Mr J for the way their agents spoke to him during the 
calls he had with them;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Js credit file in respect of 
these issues.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman