DRN-2193699
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 2000. Mrs C says that AXA France IARD mis-sold her the policy.
Mrs C took the store card and PPI policy out in a department store  but AXA has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to AXA in my decision.
background
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint but didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold  
Mrs C disagreed with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this in to account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs C says that she was asked by the store assistant if she wanted to take out a store card 
 and that she agreed to do so. She says she was asked to sign at the bottom of the 
application, and that she didnt know she has any option about taking PPI.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Cs store card application, and I can see that she has 
signed the application twice  once to select PPI, and once to agree to take out the store 
card. The section of the application form where Mrs C has signed to take out the PPI 
includes the following wording 
 Only sign this box if you require Account Cover. Yes, I would like to protect my Account 
with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice.
So, I think that AXA did give Mrs C a choice in taking out the PPI, and that she chose to do 
so.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C - so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible some of this information AXA provided wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
based on her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
limitations or exclusions on the PPI cover, so it couldve been useful for her if something 
went wrong  and while Mrs C has told us that she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer, the PPI couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than her existing cover. And as 
she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of cover.    
Ive thought about everything that Mrs C and her representative have said  but these points 
dont change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think that the policy was 
mis-sold. 
other considerations
Following the Supreme Court ruling, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new 
rules and guidance for businesses to follow when looking at PPI complaints. These rules 
meant that businesses would sometimes have to give back some of the commission paid on 
certain PPI policies.
But these only applied to lenders  and AXA isnt Mrs Cs lender. So, this doesnt make a 
difference to Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C could approach her lender about any commission she paid on her PPI policy if she 
had concerns, if she hasnt already done so - however the FCA also introduced a deadline 
for PPI complaints, including those about commission. The deadline was 29 August 2019  
so its likely that a complaint made now would be too late. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman