DRN-3238820
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Nationwide Building Society has unfairly declined his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr A has said that he and his brother hired a car to use on their upcoming 
holiday to Italy later that month. The car hire was arranged through a third-party 
comparison site prior to their holiday and at this time insurance was added to their 
purchase. The car hire was in Mr As brothers name using Mr As brothers credit card.
When Mr A and his brother collected the car from the hire company in Italy, Mr A used his 
credit card to pay a holding deposit. This amount isnt in dispute, however Mr As credit 
card was subsequently charged £281.18 for additional insurances and hes said he and 
his brother didnt agree to this payment.
Mr A asked Nationwide to refund this payment. Nationwide raised a chargeback request 
which was unsuccessful and considered a claim under s75. Nationwide declined Mr As 
s75 claim as it didnt think Mr A had a sufficient debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) link (which 
is needed for a s75 claim). This is because the car hire was in Mr As brothers name and 
Mr A was only listed as an additional driver. So it argued Mr A wasnt a party to the hire 
contract as it was his brother who had rented the car. Unhappy with the response from 
Nationwide, Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt the payment in 
dispute wasnt the type of payment which can be claimed under s75. This is because she 
thought it was a settling charge and that these charges werent part of the contract in 
dispute. Mr A didnt agree with our investigators assessment and as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Mr A has also raised concerns about an additional cleaning payment and some 
admin charges. The majority of these payments have since been refunded and so 
wont be considered in the decision. Nationwide has said its investigated all the 
payments Mr A has complained about. If Mr A is unhappy about any remaining 
outstanding payments he will need to raise this with Nationwide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case and have included an extract of this below:
Section 75 claim
Section 75 makes the provider of credit (Nationwide in this case) equally liable where 
there is a case of misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier of the goods 
or services. For a s75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Ive seen a copy of Mr As credit card transactions which shows a payment of £281.18 
on 31 August 2019 to the car hire company. Mr A was therefore responsible for 
repaying the amount owed to his credit card provider and so he is the debtor. As Mr As 
Nationwide credit card was used to make this payment, Nationwide was the creditor.
From everything Ive seen I think its clear the supplier is the hire car company. Ive 
noted that initially a third-party comparison site was used to arrange the car hire. 
However, looking at the comparison sites terms and conditions, I can see it says that it 
will either act as principal (i.e. the supplier) or as agent for the principal. In this case it 
was acting as agent and the actual supplier (for the purposes of the car hire) was the 
hire company. Ive come to this conclusion because Ive seen nothing to suggest any 
further involvement of the third- party comparison site after Mr As brother booked the 
rental. In addition, when they arrived in Italy, Mr A and his brother went to collect the car 
from the hire company. Ive seen a copy of the rental agreement between Mr As brother 
and the hire company. At the bottom of this it states that by signing this agreement, I 
confirm to have received, read, understood and agreed to the Terms and Conditions of 
rental. And having reviewed the terms and conditions it states that [the hire 
company] hereby rents out to the Customer a motor vehicle So its clear the supplier 
in this instance is the car hire company and not the third- party comparison site.
I now need to consider who contracted with the rental company.
The rental agreement sets out the Invoice is in Mr As brothers name and he is listed 
separately as the Driver. Mr A is listed as an Additional Driver. Below this it lists 
several services, some of which are in Italian and some in English. Three of these 
services have an associated cost detailed and relate to insurance, breakdown cover 
and what appears to be out of hours cover. The total cost of these services is listed as 
308.66 Euros (the amount in dispute.) Below this is the declaration relating to the terms 
and conditions and requiring a signature. I have a copy of this document which is 
signed with a copy of Mr As credit card receipt for the deposit payment attached. I 
appreciate that there is some dispute over this signature as Mr A has said he doesnt 
recognise it as being his or his brothers. However, it isnt disputed that the car hire took 
place and I think its unlikely this wouldve taken place without the other contracting 
party agreeing to the hire companys terms and conditions. So I think its most likely that 
Mr As brother signed this document which demonstrates that he was the sole 
contracting party.
In addition, Ive also reviewed the terms and conditions and other supporting 
documentation to determine who contracted with the car hire company. As detailed 
above, the terms and conditions state that the hire company rents a car to the 
Customer. Customer is not a clearly defined term. However, I think the terms and 
conditions clearly distinguish between the Customer whom this Rental Agreement is 
made out to and other persons listed on the Rental Agreement i.e. any additional 
drivers. This makes it clear that the contract is very specific at distinguishing between 
the additional driver (Mr A) and the Customer who the agreement is made out to (Mr 
As brother), and therefore that additional drivers are not the contracting party (i.e. the 
Customer.) The terms and conditions also set out that the obligations for the car rental 
such as being liable for damage to the vehicle are the customers. Ive also noted that 
the invoice for the admin fees connected with the traffic fines incurred are also made 
out to Mr As brother. So taking everything into consideration, I think that Mr As brother 
is the contracting party not Mr A and because of this, Mr A doesnt have the necessary 
DCS agreement in place to be able to make a s75 complaint. So I dont think 
Nationwide acted unfairly in declining his s75 claim.
Ive also noted Mr A has said he feels the hire company breached its own terms by 
taking his payment details for the deposit and not his brothers. However, because Mr A 
doesnt have the required DCS agreement, I cant go on to consider whether the supplier breached the contract.
Unauthorised payment and Chargeback
Mr A has argued that he didnt agree for the payment to be taken from his credit card 
account. However, Mr A isnt disputing that his brother hired the car or that he was 
present at this time. Mr A also isnt disputing that he agreed for his credit card to be 
used for the holding deposit and so did authorise funds to be taken for specific 
reasons. He also entered his pin and so the payment has been authenticated correctly. 
Im also satisfied that he consented to a payment being made. I think what Mr A 
disputing is that he didnt agree the amount which was being was taken.
As detailed above, I think Mr As brother signed the hire companys terms and 
conditions and given Mr A was there, I think its likely he had sight of this document. 
This document specified the amount that would be deducted for insurance and other 
cover. So, I think its most likely Mr A did know that at least this amount would be 
taken. So I dont think it has taken more than Mr A could reasonably have expected  
this means Nationwide doesnt need to refund this amount.
Nationwide has also raised a chargeback on Mr As behalf with the card scheme 
provider. Chargeback is a voluntary process and is subject to the card scheme rules 
 there is no guarantee of success.
The chargeback request was defended and as such was unsuccessful. Nationwide has 
said the chargeback was declined because the charges were detailed on the agreement 
and so the card scheme provider concluded the payment was agreed. As Ive explained 
above, I dont think Nationwide needs to refund the payment as an unauthorised 
payment (and I think its most likely the payment was authorised). So, it seems unlikely 
that the chargeback was going to be successful and I therefore dont think Nationwide 
needs to do anything more with respect to this.
I asked both Mr A and Nationwide to provide me with anything else theyd like me to 
consider in light of my provisional decision. Nationwide confirmed it had no further comment 
and Mr A didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party have provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision. So it follows, for the reasons 
detailed in my provisional decision, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
  
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
