DRN-4343265
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to issue a new debit card 
when his debit card expired and failed to give an explanation for this. 
What happened
On attempting to use his debit card Mr T discovered it had expired and having not received a 
replacement card Mr T contacted Barclays about this. He was concerned why he hadnt 
received a replacement card - in particular he was worried about potential fraud. Barclays 
issued a replacement card for Mr T and when questioned about how often he used the card 
Mr T confirmed it wasnt often. In response, the advisor said this was probably the reason 
that his card wasnt replaced because he didnt use the card often enough. 
Following this call Mr T made contact with Barclays through webchat and asked to raise a 
complaint. He wanted an explanation as to why he hadnt received a replacement card. Mr T 
was told that it might have been a technical issue and confirmed that a replacement card 
was on its way. Mr T was unhappy with this and wished to have the matter investigated. Mr 
T was told he could raise a complaint but as there wasnt anything to investigate the 
outcome would be the same and asked what resolution Mr T was looking for. Barclays 
offered Mr T £25 as a gesture of goodwill to settle his complaint. 
Mr T was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr T would like 
reimbursement for his call charges and the time he wasted investigating the matter.
On review of Mr Ts complaint, Barclays acknowledged that it had provided incorrect 
information regarding the debit card not being automatically reissued. Barclays clarified the 
reason it wasnt reissued was because it hadnt been used for more than six months prior to 
its expiry. Barclays offered a further £75 for distress and inconvenience and reimbursed call 
costs of £8.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong in not issuing Mr T with a debit card and they thought 
what Barclays had done to settle the complaint was fair and reasonable.
Mr T disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain my role is to look at the problems Mr T has experienced and see if 
Barclays has done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible 
- to put Mr T back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Barclays have explained that for security purposes it doesnt reissue new debit cards when 
they are classified as dormant through lack of use. This is also stated in its terms and 
conditions where it says:
We may replace a card when it expires or at any time. We wont replace a card if it hasnt 
been used for a long time.
Barclays have told us that Mr T hadnt used his debit card for more than six months prior to 
its expiry. I think this could be considered a reasonably long period of time and so I dont 
think Barclays made a mistake here or treated Mr T unfairly by not issuing a new debit card. 
And as Barclays have now issued a new debit card for Mr T I dont think it needs to do 
anything more here for Mr T.
The background above provides a summary of the conversations Mr T had with Barclays 
regarding the reissue of his debit card. Mr T spent just over seven minutes on a call with 
Barclays having a replacement card issued. I think its worth noting here that during that 
phone call Mr T was told that he likely wasnt sent out a new debit card due to low usage  
an explanation which I think is reasonable and correct given what Barclays have told us. 
Nevertheless, Mr T decided to seek further explanation on the matter through webchat and it 
was here Barclays agreed he was given incorrect information. Barclays have already 
compensated Mr T £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused by this and reimbursed 
him £8 in phone costs  which is what Mr T asked for. And as I havent been given any 
evidence of any financial loss Mr T has suffered, Im satisfied what Barclays has already 
done to settle Mr Ts complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC have already done to 
settle Mr Ts complaint is fair and reasonable so Im not asking it to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman