DRN-4113958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a medical 
expenses claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs R were abroad on holiday. They were due to fly back to the UK on 17 August 
2022. Unfortunately, a few days beforehand, Mrs R began to suffer from severe back pain. 
Mr R got in touch with AXAs medical assistance team on 14 August 2022 to make a medical 
expenses claim. He let it know that Mrs R was in severe pain and was unable to sit down. 
He told AXA that Mrs R had seen a doctor and had been prescribed medication.
AXA requested a medical report, which Mr R sent to it the next day. The medical report 
stated that Mrs R was fit to travel, but not sitting down. He queried what steps AXA could 
take to provide repatriation assistance to Mrs R, given she wasnt able to sit down.
On the following day, Mr R called AXA again. At this point, it told him that it would need to 
request copies of Mrs Rs medical records from her UK GP to assess cover. Mr R 
accordingly completed and returned the consent forms. He also let AXA know that the return 
flight was booked for the following day, so things were urgent. It took AXA over three hours 
to request Mrs Rs medical records from the GP. Around 6pm local time on that day, AXA 
texted Mr R to say that Mrs R would need to attend a medical centre for an appointment. 
Thats because it considered that the initial medical report was too brief to confirm what 
steps were medically necessary and appropriate.
Subsequently, on the morning of 17 August 2022, Mr R called AXA to let it know that he and 
Mrs R were on the way the airport. He said they felt they had no other options. Around half 
an hour later, AXA emailed Mr R to confirm that it had agreed to cover the claim and that it 
would find accommodation. It said it would then arrange a medical appointment so that a 
treatment plan could be arranged for Mrs R. Unfortunately, Mr R didnt receive the email until 
after he and Mrs R had already checked-in at the airport and had been through security.
Mr and Mrs R flew home on their pre-booked flight. Mrs R was able to lay down for the 
majority of the flight, as there were spare seats on the plane. They were very unhappy with 
the way AXA had handled their claim and they complained.
AXA agreed that it hadnt handled Mr and Mrs Rs claim as well as it shouldve done. It 
acknowledged that its team hadnt correctly managed Mr and Mrs Rs expectations about the 
medical information it might need to confirm cover. It also accepted that Mr R had had to 
make the majority of contact with the medical assistance team. It concluded that Mr and Mrs 
R hadnt received the support theyd needed and so it offered to pay Mr and Mrs R £250 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept AXAs offer and they asked us to look into their complaint. They 
said that Mr R had had to repeatedly chase things up with the assistance team; they felt AXA 
had failed to provide Mrs R with the care she needed and they also felt that Mrs Rs injury 
had been exacerbated by the fact that shed had to travel sitting in a taxi, wait at the airport 
and sit upright at points on the flight. This had caused her severe pain. They felt too that 
AXA should compensate them for the loss of some of their holiday following Mrs Rs injury. 
And they considered that AXA should make a payment to charity representing the potential 
savings it had made because Mr and Mrs R hadnt remained abroad pending medical 
examination. Neither had AXA been put to the costs of repatriating Mrs R and purchasing 
new flights for her family.
Our investigator didnt think AXAs compensation offer was sufficient to recognise Mr and 
Mrs Rs trouble and upset. She felt that AXA could have requested the additional medical 
information more promptly than it did. And had it done so, she felt AXA wouldve been in a 
position to potentially confirm cover significantly earlier than it did and accordingly, have 
avoided Mrs R needing to travel in pain. So she concluded AXA had caused Mrs R to suffer 
unnecessary discomfort. She therefore recommended that AXA should pay a total award of 
£500 compensation to reflect its poor service.
However, the investigator didnt think AXA needed to cover the costs of Mr and Mrs Rs lost 
holiday. Nor did she think AXA needed to make any payment representing the costs it 
wouldve incurred had AXA arranged a later repatriation for Mrs R and the family. And she 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show that AXAs service had exacerbated Mrs Rs 
injury.
AXA accepted the investigators recommendation.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigator and so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs new offer to pay Mr and Mrs R £500 total compensation is fair 
in all the circumstances and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the policy terms, AXAs records and the available 
medical evidence, to decide whether I think AXA has now made a fair offer of settlement.
Mr and Mrs R made a claim for medical assistance abroad, including potential repatriation. 
So I think it was reasonable for AXA to consider their claim in line with the Emergency 
Medical and Other Expenses section of the policy. In brief, this does include cover for a 
policyholders emergency medical costs; extended accommodation and repatriation costs. 
However, in common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies, the policy only covers 
costs which are medically necessary. And AXA doesnt cover medical costs arising from a 
policyholders pre-existing medical conditions unless theyve been declared to and accepted 
by it. So before AXA agreed to cover Mr and Mrs Rs claim, I think it was entitled to be 
satisfied that repatriation was medically necessary; that it was safe for Mrs R to travel and 
that her back condition hadnt existed prior to the policy purchase or trip booking dates. That 
means I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to require a medical certificate and Mrs Rs 
GP records before confirming cover.
With that said though, AXA accepts that it didnt handle this claim as well as it shouldve done and that it didnt fairly manage Mr and Mrs Rs expectations during the life of the claim. 
I can see from AXAs records that it wasnt proactive in contacting Mr R to provide him with 
information or updates  the majority of contact between the assistance company and Mr R 
was down to Mr R needing to make repeated calls to AXA. I dont doubt that this caused him 
additional frustration and inconvenience at an already worrying time.
And I agree with our investigator that AXA caused unnecessary delays in the handling of this 
claim, which I think likely led to Mrs R needing to return on her pre-booked flight, without the 
potential support she may well have been entitled to. Ive looked carefully at the assistance 
teams records. Mr R sent the initial medical report setting out Mrs Rs diagnosis and 
potential unfitness to fly seated on 15 August 2022. But it appears that AXA didnt assess 
the report until 16 August 2022. At that point, a clinical member of staff decided full GP 
records were necessary to assess cover. And around 27 hours after the first medical report 
was received, AXA decided it was too brief and that Mrs R needed to see another doctor to 
provide a fuller diagnosis and undergo an examination of her fitness to fly.
In my view, AXA should have been in a position to consider the first medical report on 15 
August 2022. Had it done so, I think its likely that it wouldve concluded then that it needed 
Mrs Rs medical records and that a further medical appointment was necessary. Both steps 
could then have been arranged potentially a day earlier than they actually were. The 
evidence indicates that Mrs Rs GP provided the medical records on the day they were 
requested  which suggests that they could potentially have been received on 15 August 
2022, or certainly earlier during the day on 16 August 2022. 
Had AXA identified on 15 August 2022 that the first medical report wasnt sufficient, it could 
have arranged for Mrs R to see another doctor either on that day or on 16 August 2022. I 
think that had this been the case, AXA wouldve been in a position to confirm cover for Mrs R 
likely a day earlier than it did and it wouldve likely been in a position to understand whether 
Mrs R was fit to fly and what support she may have needed  such as a stretcher flight or 
ambulance transfer to and from the airport. Instead, due to the delay in AXA identifying that it 
needed more medical evidence, Mr and Mrs R felt that they had no choice but to take their 
original flight back to the UK without any special assistance.
As Ive set out above, the doctor who initially assessed Mrs R concluded that she was fit to 
travel, but not seated. However, while I was pleased to note that Mrs R was able to lie flat for 
much of the return flight to the UK, she still had to travel by taxi to the airport in a seated 
position; wait at the airport and travel back to her home from the airport in a seated position. 
Given the initial doctors diagnosis and recommendations, along with Mr and Mrs Rs 
submissions, it seems this caused Mrs R a great deal of unnecessary pain over a period of 
hours. So I think its appropriate and fair that AXA should increase its compensation award 
from £250 to a total amount of £500. In my view, this award takes into account the pain and 
suffering I think Mrs R was caused by AXAs assistance teams failings, in addition to the 
communication and expectation-management failings its already acknowledged.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R say that Mrs Rs injury was prolonged due to the way she had to 
travel back to the UK. Whilst Im sorry to hear that Mrs Rs pain hasnt recovered swiftly, I 
dont think there is any independent medical evidence available which shows its more likely 
than not that Mrs Rs injury was exacerbated by AXAs handling of her claim. So I dont find 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could increase the compensation award for 
this particular point.
Mr and Mrs R consider that given AXAs cost savings in terms of rearranged flights; 
accommodation and repatriation, it should make a charity payment. These arent costs which 
were incurred though and neither are they financial losses which Mr and Mrs R should be 
compensated for. So I dont find it would be fair or reasonable for me to make such a direction here.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R would like AXA to consider a payment for the lost days of their 
holiday. I can see that they mentioned to AXA that theyd lost out on over half of their trip, 
due to Mrs Rs injury and I can understand that they werent able to have the trip theyd 
booked or paid for. However, it isnt clear to me that Mr and Mrs R have made a curtailment 
claim on the policy for AXA to consider. Neither was this issue addressed in AXAs final 
response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. So I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
make a finding on this point here.
It's open to Mr and Mrs R to now make a curtailment claim to AXA should they wish to do so. 
For ease of reference, in addition to curtailment being defined as returning to the UK early, 
AXAs definition of curtailment includes the following:
Curtailment meansYou attending a hospital outside your home area as an in-patient or 
being confined to your accommodation abroad due to personal quarantine, in either case for 
a period in excess of 48 hours.
Id add that it seems from AXAs correspondence that the medical expenses claim hasnt 
been settled to date. If Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with any claims settlement they are 
ultimately paid, they may be able to make a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
Overall, I was very sorry to read about Mrs Rs injury and I sympathise with her position. I 
was also sorry to hear about the impact her injury had on the familys holiday. But as Ive 
explained, I find that total compensation of £500 for AXAs errors is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXA has now made a fair offer of 
settlement.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs R total compensation of £500 (less any 
compensation amount its already paid.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman