DRN-4215898
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint concerns ReAssure Limiteds mis-sale of her Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. Mrs R is represented in this complaint, but for ease 
Ill refer only to Mrs R.
 
What happened
Mrs R was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). In 1993, Mrs R took out an 
FSAVC plan with ReAssure in order to top up her pension benefits. By 2019, Mrs R had 
taken her FSAVC plan benefits as an annuity and begun accessing some of her TPS 
benefits. However, she remained employed on a part-time, phased-retirement basis and 
continued contributing to her TPS.
In 2021, Mrs R complained to ReAssure that its 1993 advice was unsuitable as an FSAVC 
plan wasnt the best option for her. Ultimately, ReAssure accepted Mrs R should have been 
advised to purchase added years instead of an FSAVC plan. It calculated the number of 
added years Mrs R could have bought if her FSVAC contributions has instead been paid to 
the added years arrangement. It said it would put things right by paying Mrs R a lump sum of 
£238.21. This was to reflect the past loss Mrs R had suffered as a result of receiving a lower 
annuity than she would have done, had she bought added years. Plus it offered an annuity 
of £392.64 per annum to make up the shortfall in the difference between the annuity she is 
currently receiving and what she would have received if shed bought added years instead. 
Mrs R told ReAssure she wanted all the redress to be paid as a lump sum, and ReAssures 
proposal wasnt in line with the regulators FG17/9 guidance or with decisions made by either 
our Service or ReAssure in other cases. She also said an annuity would cause her to incur a 
tax charge, as it meant she would exceed her money purchase annual allowance (MPAA). 
Regarding this, Mrs R provided ReAssure with a payslip as evidence of her tax rate. 
ReAssure maintained its proposed redress was appropriate in the circumstances, given that 
Mrs R bought an annuity with her FSAVC plan benefits, and given her continued 
employment (albeit part-time) and contribution to the TPS. ReAssure again invited Mrs R to 
provide evidence that a new annuity would cause her tax or other disadvantages.
Mrs R came to our Service. She thought ReAssure had offered her an annuity just to boost 
its own business. And that while ReAssure said its proposed redress put her back into the 
position she should have been in and reflected what happened when Mrs R accessed her 
pension benefits, pension freedoms had been introduced and so they should apply here.
ReAssure told us its proposed redress depended on the particular circumstances of each 
case and, here, reflected Mrs Rs choice to buy an annuity. It thought this was in line with our 
Services approach and while it had chosen to use the FG17/9 redress calculation method, it 
didnt have to pay the redress as a lump sum.
Our Investigator thought ReAssures proposed redress was fair, reasonable and in line with 
FG17/9, as it put Mrs R into the position she would have been in if not for its unsuitable 
advice in 1993. 
Mrs R disagreed. She thought ReAssure was unfair to only follow FG17/9 so far, and that 
FG17/9 didnt suggest an enhancement to an annuity derived from a mis-sold FSAVC was a 
redress option. She again highlighted other cases where ReAssure had simply paid lump 
sums, and said the regulator required businesses to consider how our Service has taken 
account of the particular circumstances when determining similar complaints. That while 
ReAssure said its proposed redress reflected what happened when Mrs R accessed her 
pension benefits, those events derived from a mis-sold FSAVC plan. And the TPS was 
linked to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) whereas the FSAVC annuity was linked to the 
Retail Price Index (RPI), so a new annuity could disadvantage her further. 
Our Investigator didnt change their view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
came to me for a decision.
On 2 June 2023, I issued my provisional decision in which I explained why I thought 
ReAssures proposed method of redress was not unfair or unreasonable in Mrs Rs particular
circumstances.
ReAssure said it had no further comments to make. 
In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs R provided further comments. In summary, 
she said:
Id not taken account of all the relevant laws, regulations, rules, guidance, standard, 
codes of practice and industry good practice. And good industry practice, for businesses 
and our Service, should have consistency at its core. 
ReAssure wasnt consistent. It often paid lump sums to other consumers in what Mrs R 
thought were identical circumstances. But it chose not to in Mrs Rs case, despite 
FG17/9 making clear it should. And this wasnt in line with the regulators Consumer 
Duty on businesses. 
The regulator didnt set out FG17/9 for businesses to mis-use it by dipping in and out of 
it as they wanted. FG17/9 didnt mention businesses making redress offers that included 
enhancement or setting up annuities, and the regulator would have made it clear if this 
was what it intended businesses to do. 
Our Service wasnt consistent either. Mrs R highlighted two further Ombudsmans 
decisions that hadnt directed the business to provide redress as an annuity. Mrs R 
questioned why her case was different, and thought our Service was also bound by the 
Consumer Duty.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im now in a position to make my 
final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs R may disagree, Id like to reassure her that I have taken into account relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and 
what I consider to be good industry practice. This includes the Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Mrs R has particularly mentioned the Consumer Duty. But I need to consider Mrs Rs 
complaint against the standards that applied at the time. And while the regulator has 
published its final rules and guidance for the new Consumer Duty, theyre not expected to come into force until 31 July 2023 and they wont apply to past actions. So the Consumer 
Duty rules dont apply to this complaint.
Also, Id like to acknowledge that Mrs R has sought to support her complaint by pointing to 
decisions made by Ombudsmen at our Service in other separate complaints, in what she 
sees to be similar circumstances. I dont agree that the circumstances are as similar as 
Mrs R seems to think. But regardless, our Service considers the particular circumstances of 
each individual complaint. So, what Ive considered here is the particular circumstances of 
Mrs Rs complaint, and all the evidence and comments provided to me about that. 
Its not disputed that ReAssures 1993 advice to buy an FSAVC plan was unsuitable for 
Mrs R and that she should have been advised to buy added years instead, so I dont need to 
consider that further. And Mrs R isnt disputing ReAssures calculation of her loss, so I dont 
need to consider that either. Instead, whats disputed here is whether its fair and reasonable 
for ReAssure to offer her an annuity as part of the redress for its unsuitable advice in 1993.
I know Mrs R says ReAssure is inconsistent because it often paid lump sums to other 
consumers in what Mrs R thought were identical circumstances, but chose not to in her 
case. But as I say, my role here is to consider is the particular circumstances of Mrs Rs 
complaint.
The regulators FG17/9 guidance sets out how businesses should calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefits pension transfers, but says businesses can also choose to use it 
for FSAVC complaints as ReAssure has done here. So as a starting point, ReAssure isnt 
obliged to use FG17/9 in Mrs Rs case. 
That said, ReAssure did choose to use FG17/9 to calculate redress for the unsuitable 
FSAVC advice it gave Mrs R in 1993. And Mrs R thinks its therefore unfair for ReAssure to 
depart from FG17/9 when it comes to the method of redress - she says FG17/9 wasnt 
intended for businesses to mis-use it by dipping in and out of it as they wanted. And FG17/9 
doesnt mention businesses making redress offers that include enhancement or setting up 
annuities.
FG17/9 says, If it is not possible to pay the redress amount into the customers personal 
pension by augmentation, the redress should be paid in the form of a lump sum to the 
customer.  All parties agree redress cannot now be paid into Mrs Rs FSAVC plan, as shes 
taken those benefits as an annuity. So Mrs R wants ReAssure to pay her all the redress as a 
lump sum.
But FG17/9 also says,  the basic objective of redress is to put the customer, so far as 
possible, into the position they would have been in if the non-compliant or unsuitable advice 
had not been given or the breach had not occurred. And it goes on to say, Where a 
respondent upholds a complaint concerning a non-joiner, opt-out or FSAVC case, the 
respondent may use this guidance as a basis of calculating the redress, to the extent that it 
is appropriate to do so and subject to the particular circumstances of the case". So FG17/9 
makes clear that ReAssure should put Mrs R back into the position she should have been in 
if not for its unsuitable advice in 1993, but should also consider the particular circumstances 
of the case.
Given this, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for ReAssure to propose redress in the 
form of a lump sum of £238.21 to reflect the past loss Mrs R has suffered, plus an annuity of 
£392.64 per annum for the lost added years she should have had but didnt. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says that pension freedoms should apply to this redress. But its important to note that 
the main TPS scheme is a defined benefit arrangement and added years are used to boost the number of years membership in the scheme. So had Mrs R purchased added years, 
these would have been used to increase the guaranteed income Mrs R would have received 
from the main TPS. So Im satisfied that ReAssure providing an annuity for Mrs Rs lost 
added years puts her back into the position she should have been in if not for ReAssures 
unsuitable advice in 1993  because had Mrs R bought added years, they would have 
provided a guaranteed income. 
That said, Ive considered if theres any reason why ReAssure should compensate Mrs R for 
her future loss by way of a cash lump sum, instead of an annuity as it has proposed. And 
Mrs R says an annuity for this would disadvantage her in two ways. 
Mrs R is concerned that the annuity may lead to her exceeding her MPAA and incurring a 
tax charge. Based on what Mrs R says, the only pension she still contributes to is her TPS, 
which is a defined benefit pension scheme. And Im not persuaded that ReAssure setting up 
an annuity for Mrs R, as redress for the lost added years she should have bought in her 
defined benefit TPS, would mean that Mrs R incurs a tax charge by exceeding her MPAA.
Mrs R also says that such an annuity might leave her worse off because her TPS and the 
FSAVC annuity are linked to different indices. But Im not persuaded this would 
disadvantage Mrs R in the way she suggests, because the FG17/9 calculation methodology 
that ReAssure has already used takes RPI and CPI as inflation measures into account. So I 
dont think its unreasonable for ReAssure to offer the annuity. And its offered a cash lump 
sum for the past losses Mrs R has suffered. I think this is fair.
So while I realise this isnt the answer Mrs R hoped for, Im satisfied ReAssures proposed 
method of redress is not unfair or unreasonable in Mrs Rs particular circumstances. 
Putting things right
ReAssure has already made an offer to put things right and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So ReAssure should put things right for Mrs R in the way its already offered.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to put things right and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances. So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should put things right for 
Mrs R in the way it has already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman