DRN-2093360
The complaint
Mr G has complained about his property insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI), because, 
whilst it handled and settled his claim for an escape of oil, it did not pursue recovery of the 
claim and his losses from his neighbour, from whose supply the contaminating oil originated.
What happened
In late 2015 Mr Gs neighbour was having some works done to the grounds of the property 
which included laying a new oil supply pipe. Shortly afterwards Mr G noted a strange smell in 
his property and it was found that the oil pipe was leaking  Mr G who is an engineer and his 
neighbour excavated the pipe and found it was shaped in an unconventional way which was 
felt to have caused the problem.
The neighbour had used the services of a builder but sub-contracted companies had been 
involved too. The neighbour had also been having some landscaping work completed  
although Mr G reports this was not near the pipe and could not have caused the shaping of 
the pipe that was found. When he made a claim to UKI in early 2016 and UKIs adjuster 
assessed the situation including photos of the pipe, it was discussed that UKI would likely 
have a good chance of recovering its outlay. Mr G was told UKI would look to reclaim his 
excess payment as well as obtain some compensation for him. 
Over time, whilst the repairs to Mr Gs home were progressed and ultimately completed, the 
recovery action remained ongoing. Mr G was unhappy with the standard and content of 
communication with UKIs legal representative and ultimately complained about them to the 
legal services ombudsman.
In the meantime, in March 2019, Mr G received notification that UKI was abandoning the 
recovery action. UKIs legal representative said UKI had been advised that the prospects for 
a successful claim were less than 50%  whilst it had wanted to join with the neighbour, with 
the neighbour claiming for breach of contract, so the neighbours evidence could be utilised, 
this hadnt been possible. It was felt that a claim on its own for negligence, assuming the 
correct party could be found, would be unlikely to succeed. So it had been decided to not 
pursue the action any further. 
Mr G was upset, he was under the impression that liability had been accepted by his 
neighbours building contractor  everyone was still on good terms and he had thought he 
was just waiting to receive his money. Mr G noted that as well as being out of pocket for his 
excess and not having received any compensation for everything hed been through, hed 
now have to declare a costly claim to future insurers which would surely affect his future 
premiums. He thought UKI should have pursued his neighbours insurer, rather than looked 
to make a claim against any third-party working at the property. He felt if UKI had been 
assertive with that insurer and pursued it for recovery, there would have been a good 
prospect for success.
UKI didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr G complained to this service.
Our investigator noted the advice UKI had received. He felt, all things considered, that UKI 
hadnt acted unreasonably. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Gs frustration; I see this event came at a difficult time for him and the 
damage/loss was none of his doing, nor was it caused by anything belonging to him. He 
suffered through the disruption at that difficult time and now, with recovery abandoned, will 
have the repercussions of the claim record to deal with for the next few years at least.
Whilst I also understand Mr Gs view about how this should have been conducted and what 
UKI should have done, I cant reasonably blame UKI for taking the advice of its legal 
representative. And, although it would be nice if one insurer could speak to the other 
assertively and get things done, that isnt how the industry works. 
I also note that the neighbours insurers mustnt have been convinced by their prospects for 
success in recovery either  because they chose to abandon their action too. I see Mr G 
believes all parties involved  by which I mean his neighbour, the contractor and the 
sub-contractors  had fully cooperated. But its clear to me that the solicitors acting for the 
contractors liability insurers werent minded to concede and agree liability. 
I know Mr G thinks that the proving of the matter is cut and dried. I might do too from his 
perspective  an engineer who found and saw first-hand the pipe which caused the leak. But 
I can also see from reading the submissions from UKI, that, from a legal perspective, this 
was by no means a straight-forward situation.  
Its also the case that in running any recovery operation it is always up to the insurer how it 
does that. The insurer is also reasonably entitled to rely on the legal advice it receives. That 
is what UKI did here, and despite the fact I know this will disappoint Mr G, I cant find fault 
with it for having done that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman