DRN-3747029
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt refunded him the money he lost after 
falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP) impersonation scam.
Mr G has been represented throughout his complaint. But for ease, within this decision, I will 
solely refer to Mr G.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mr G 
fell victim to an impersonation scam. 
In early 2022, Mr G was looking for accommodation to rent and saw a property listed on a 
well-known social media website. Mr G then liaised with the landlord through email and was 
advised that the two-bedroom accommodation (based in London) was available immediately 
and the monthly rental was £840. This price included utility bills, council tax and all other 
bills. The landlord advised Mr G that a well-known online rental company would handle the 
booking. Mr G received an email from this company and went ahead and made payment. On 
1 February 2022 Mr G made a faster payment of £1,740. This was one months rent (£840) 
and £900 for the security deposit. 
Mr G turned up at the address  and no one was there. And the landlord then didnt respond 
to any contact. Unfortunately the landlord didnt exist, and the rental company that was 
supposedly handling the booking, had been impersonated. So Mr G had in fact paid his 
money to fraudsters.
Mr G contacted HSBC to report the matter on 2 February 2022 and to see whether his funds 
could be recovered. 
HSBC contacted the receiving bank (the bank where Mr G paid his funds to) but was unable 
to recover any funds. HSBC also considered whether Mr G was due a refund of the monies 
he had lost. HSBC considered the case under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code 
(CRM Code). This is a voluntary code which HSBC is a signatory of. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
HSBC declined reimbursing Mr G, as it said one of the exceptions in the CRM Code applies, 
in that it believes Mr G didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the 
person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Mr G, unhappy with HSBCs response, brought his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. In short, they agreed that Mr G had 
acted without a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. They considered the 
price was too good to be true, and to such an extent that it should have given Mr G cause for 
concern that all wasnt as it seemed. And given the value of the payment, they didnt 
consider (under the CRM Code) that HSBC were required to display an effective warning as 
part of the payment process. So our Investigator agreed HSBC had acted fairly and 
reasonably in choosing to decline reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Mr G didnt accept the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but Im not upholding his complaint. I know hes been the
victim of a cruel scam. But I dont believe HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr G authorised the payment that is the subject of this
complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by a fraudster. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations, he 
would normally be liable for it. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the CRM Code.
The CRM Code requires Firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for HSBC to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a Sending Firm (in this case HSBC) may choose not to reimburse a 
customer if it can establish that*:
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, I think HSBC has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Mr G under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics and 
complexity of the scam, I dont think Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate. 
In order to determine whether this exception to reimbursement applies, I must ask if he 
made the payment he did whilst having a reasonable basis for belief that all was genuine. 
Having carefully reviewed everything Im afraid I dont find thats the case. Ill explain why.
I think the key issue at hand here is the price Mr G was paying for the rental 
accommodation.  And, importantly, whether the price was too good to be true to such an 
extent that it should have given Mr S cause for concern that it might not be a legitimate 
rental. 
The accommodation Mr G intended on renting was for a monthly rental cost of £840. This 
was for a property that slept four people, and this rental cost included all bills, such as utility 
bills, council tax and other bills such as broadband. The accommodation was also based in a 
southeast postcode of London. 
Having reviewed what Mr G was going to be paying monthly, and alongside what he was 
going to be receiving for that rental cost in return, I agree with our Investigator  the price 
Mr G thought he was going to be paying for the accommodation was not just lower, but 
significantly lower than what it typically cost. A very quick internet search on comparable 
rental properties, would have shown the average rental cost for accommodation in and 
around the area Mr G wanted to rent. And here the supposed landlord was willing to rent a 
property for significantly under the going average. 
As Ive said above, the price Mr G thought he was paying is an important factor here, as I 
find it should have given Mr G a serious cause for concern that it may not have been 
legitimate. I think the price was simply too good to be true from the outset and to such an 
extent that it ought to have raised more than a significant doubt on Mr Gs part. It doesnt 
appear Mr G asked any further questions around the price being what it was and seemingly 
took the price, at face value without carrying out any research into similar properties in 
similar areas for rent. Whereas the price, to my mind, should have led to a greater degree of 
checking and suspicion on Mr Gs part. 
Overall, the rental price and for what it included was a major red flag that should have given 
Mr G more than a cause for concern. To my mind it is reasonable to suggest that this should 
have led to Mr G questioning the legitimacy of it all, and ought to have led to a greater 
degree of checking on Mr Gs part. I think the price considerably stood out as being too good 
to be true. And, that this ought fairly and reasonably to have caused concerns that all wasnt 
as it seemed. To the extent that he, quite simply, didnt proceed with the payment until he 
had physically attended the property. Im also mindful, from reviewing the emails Mr G had 
with the supposed landlord, Mr G raised concerns he couldnt see the property listed on the 
genuine rental company website, had wanted to see the property in person and also advised 
he would be happy to make payment while at the property through bank card. These were 
the right things for Mr G to have thought about and ultimately should have continued to carry 
out in order to verify it was a genuine property up for rent.  Should HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as HSBC engage in the monitoring 
of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Mr G was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider HSBC wouldve 
had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. I say this because the payment 
wouldnt have appeared out of character or unusual. The payment wasnt particularly large 
or remarkable. So I dont think the CRM Code required that HSBC display an effective 
warning as part of the payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds 
for intervening to question the payment with Mr G before allowing it to be processed.
Recovery of funds
I have also considered whether HSBC did all it could to try and recover the money Mr G lost. 
HSBC was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask the Receiving Firm to 
return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to make enquiries quickly 
for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades me HSBC did act 
quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the money on as 
quickly as possible. While Mr G, after realising he was the victim of a scam, reported the 
matter promptly  it was a day after he had made the payment. And unfortunately, no funds 
remained that could be recovered, so there was nothing more HSBC could do.
Im sorry Mr G lost his money in this way, and I dont underestimate his strength of feeling 
and why he thinks this money should be returned. But for the reasons explained, I dont find 
that he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. So I consider it 
was fair and reasonable for HSBC to decline to reimburse him for his losses under the 
CRM Code.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman