DRN-2955997
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the standard of service hes received from Nationwide Building Society, 
including that they didnt raise a chargeback claim hed requested and that they didnt 
provide a way for him to communicate with their fraud department other than by telephone.
What happened
An online casino took £700 from Mr Es account. Mr E tried to make an online request to 
have Nationwide recover the money via a chargeback claim, but he felt that none of the 
chargeback request options available on the website matched what had taken place and so 
he tried to contact Nationwide via social media to ask about this. Mr E suffers from mental 
health issues which make using the telephone extremely difficult for him.
Nationwide responded to Mr Es social media contact and asked him to call them  which Mr 
E was trying specifically to avoid. Mr E felt that Nationwide failed to take account of his 
mental health difficulties as they should have done.
Nationwide looked at what had happened with regard the online casino and felt that the 
matter was better suited to an investigation by their fraud department. They relayed this 
information to Mr E, but provided no means for Mr E to contact the fraud team other than by 
telephone. Mr E wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked into Mr Es complaint. They noted that they hadnt been aware of Mr Es 
mental health issues until Mr E had brought them to their attention around the time of his 
complaint, and that once they were aware of Mr Es mental health issues that they had 
asked Mr E for his permission to be referred to their Specialist Support Team, which would 
be able to communicate with Mr E in a manner more appropriate for him  a request to 
which Mr E hadnt responded. Because of this, Nationwide didnt feel that theyd done 
anything wrong, and they didnt uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that 
Nationwide appeared to have not been informed of Mr Es mental health issues prior to Mr 
Es complaint, and they didnt feel that they could fairly hold Nationwide accountable for not 
being aware of Mr Es communication needs prior to this. So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been distressing for Mr E to have not been able to raise 
the chargeback claim online as he would have liked, and also that Nationwide appeared to 
be encouraging him to use the telephone when this was a method of communication he 
understandably wanted to avoid.
Mr E contends that he had made Nationwide aware of his mental health issues prior to the 
events taking place and that as such they should have been aware from the start that it was 
imperative that he avoided telephone calls and that they should have provided him alterative 
means of contacting them.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Es testimony here, but I similarly have no reason to doubt the 
testimony of Nationwide - which is that Mr E only made them aware of his mental health 
issues around the time of his complaint. 
In circumstances such as this, where testimonies differ, I have to make a decision as to what 
I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, given all of the information available to 
me. In this instance, I find it notable that Mr E hasnt been able to provide a copy of an email 
or other form of written communication prior to the time of his complaint with Nationwide 
which advises Nationwide that he suffers from mental health issues and which asks them to 
communicate with him by means other than the telephone. 
Its also notable that theres nothing on any of the system notes that Nationwide have 
provided that reference any knowledge of Mr Es mental health issues before the time of Mr 
Es complaint, which is when Nationwide contend that they were first made aware of these 
issues.
Because of these points, I feel that its more likely than not, on balance, that Nationwide 
werent aware of Mr Es mental health difficulties until Mr E advised them of his difficulties 
around the time of the complaint. And because of this, while I appreciate Mr Es frustration at 
being asked by Nationwide to contact them by telephone to discuss his chargeback claim 
request, I dont feel that I can fairly censure Nationwide for their approach in this regard, 
given that I dont feel that they were aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that 
other means of communication were necessary in this instance.
Furthermore, when Nationwide were made aware of Mr Es mental health issues, Im 
satisfied that they did make reasonable adjustments to allow Mr E to communicate with them 
in a more suitable way. Specifically, Nationwide approached Mr E for his permission to be 
referred to their Specialist Support Team, which has the mandate to assist Mr E in the 
manner that he requires. But Mr E hasnt given his consent to Nationwide to be referred to 
their Specialist Support Team, and this remains that case even though our investigator has 
confirmed Nationwide still seek Mr Es consent and has offered to act as a go-between to 
facilitate it.
I note that Mr E has referenced The Equality Act 2010 in his correspondence with this 
service. Im aware of this act, but I must note that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
court of law, and so determining whether Nationwides actions are in accordance with this 
act lies beyond the remit of this service. 
What I can consider is whether I feel a fair outcome has occurred here, given the 
circumstances of what has taken place. And, in this instance, because Im satisfied that 
Nationwide did make adjustments to their process upon leaning of Mr Es mental health 
issues, as described above, I am satisfied that this represents a fair outcome in this 
instance.  
Finally, Im also satisfied that it was reasonable of Nationwide to have determined that the 
taking of Mr Es money by the online casino was a matter more suited to their fraud 
department and not one which would qualify for a chargeback claim. And I say this because Nationwide have confirmed to this service that the money that was taken from Mr Es 
account was distributed immediately to several different companies, and that Nationwide 
consider this to be a reasonable indicator of potential fraudulent activity.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted 
unreasonably of unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr E can understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman