DRN-4110059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled their home insurance 
claim.
References to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the recommendations made since the 
matter has been with this service and the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs C held a home insurance policy underwritten by Ageas. Unfortunately, in late 
July 2021, they realised there had been a leak in the kitchen which had caused significant 
damage before it was spotted. Mr and Mrs C contacted Ageas to make a claim on their 
home insurance policy. 
Although their claim was accepted, Mr and Mrs C say things didnt go as they wouldve 
expected. In particular:
- The work took longer to complete than it shouldve and there were avoidable delays.
- The contractors appointed caused further damage to their home including in areas 
they werent meant to use while the family lived there.
- They werent offered any suitable alternative accommodation (AA) and so had to stay 
at home during the repairs. 
- Ageas service fell short on numerous occasions.
All the above caused Mr and Mrs C unnecessary trouble and upset and they lost confidence 
in Ageas. So, in late 2021, they discussed settling the claim for cash so they could get the 
remaining work completed themselves. Ultimately, Ageas agreed to this, but an amount 
couldnt be agreed. Mr and Mrs C said the cash settlement figure offered wasnt enough to 
cover the work needed to repair their home.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Ageas about these matters. 
Ageas upheld the complaint in its final response letter (FRL). It agreed the service given 
wasnt to the standard itd expect and apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the problems Mr and Mrs C had experienced as a result. Whilst it was sorry it hadnt been 
able to find AA when Mr and Mrs C wanted it, Ageas noted theyd chosen to stay in their 
home initially. And when Mr and Mrs C decided they did want AA, theyd declined the 
options Ageas had found as they were unsuitable. It explained this made the works more 
time consuming and difficult to complete. Even so, it had paid a disturbance allowance of 
£10,000 and, whilst Mr and Mrs C were living in their home, the conservatory was converted 
into a temporary kitchen.
Ageas said the progress of the works and claim had also been hindered by Mr and Mrs Cs 
refusal to send it documents, agree to appoint a loss adjuster, and allow its agents into their 
home to validate the remaining items being claimed for as well as assess the damage they 
said had been caused by the contractors. 
Mr and Mrs C brought a complaint to this service with a detailed timeline of events. They 
explained itd been a terrible year with an impact felt on their wellbeing, family and 
relationship. They didnt agree the FRL was a fair reflection of what had happened and felt 
something this straight forward being held up for so long can only be incompetence on the 
part of Ageas and its contractors. They hope this service can help Ageas to learn so no other 
family is put through the same thing. 
The Investigator considered this matter. They didnt feel Ageas had managed the claim in 
the way it shouldve in relation to key matters such as the AA, works and agreeing to a cash 
settlement and felt this caused some of the key problems Mr and Mrs C had faced. They 
noted Ageas accepted there had been delays and poor service during the claim. In 
summary, the Investigator recommended Ageas should do the following to put things right.
- Settle the claim made by Mr and Mrs C by paying them the amount outstanding 
included in a document prepared by Mr C under the heading statement of losses 
including within scope of works and attached to the view (for ease, Ill refer to this as 
Mr Cs Statement) excluding some specific items set out in the view. 
- Pay interest at 8% simple on any amounts Mr and Mrs C had paid, calculated from 
the date the payment was made by them to the date of settlement. 
- Pay compensation of £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In relation to the damage caused by the contractors, the Investigator recommended Ageas 
pay to have the stairway carpet cleaned and, if a cleaning company has said this wouldnt be 
possible, to pay the cost of having it replaced, subject to appropriate evidence.
The Investigator thought it was plausible the leak caused damage to the curtains and the 
internal door given the proximity to them. And, on balance, its likely - given the drying didnt 
complete as effectively as it shouldve - there was bubbling to the kitchen units not included 
in the original scope of work. So, he asked Ageas to pay for this work, again subject to 
evidence of expenditure.
The Investigator specifically considered further claims by Mr and Mrs C but didnt agree 
Ageas should pay them as they hadnt seen enough evidence to say its more likely these 
issues were the direct result of the leak and/or the way the claim was administered. This 
included mould in other parts of the property, damage to double glazing, the hoover and 
carpet cleaning machine. Nor did they agree Ageas should be responsible for Mr and Mrs 
Cs mortgage, any increased disturbance allowance or for Mr and Mrs Cs time in addition to 
the compensation they recommended. 
Ageas said - although itd be reasonable to query items on Mr Cs Statement and some 
hadnt been recommended for payment by the Investigator - itd agree to pay them to bring 
about a swift resolution. So, the total amount due under Mr Cs Statement  excluding some 
items which were duplicates - would lead to a payment of £22,731.35 in addition to the 
previously paid settlement sums. It agreed to the compensatory payment of £1,500 and 
asbestos testing of £300  and said itd meet the cost of asbestos removal if it was 
discovered this needed to be done. That is, a total payment to Mr and Mrs C of £24,531.35 
plus a payment for interest which was yet to be calculated.
The Investigator recommended this to Mr and Mrs C as a fair and reasonable way to settle 
the complaint in line with his original view. After further communications about this, the 
Investigators recommendation was accepted by Mr and Mrs C and £24,531.35 was paid to 
them in March 2023.In relation to interest, Ageas said it couldnt see any interest was due to Mr and Mrs C after 
taking into account the excesses due under the policy, interim payments and disturbance 
allowance so it asked for a full set of paid invoices to check this. After further 
communications with the Investigator, Ageas was asked to calculate interest on all items 
paid by it from Mr Cs Statement without accounting for the disturbance allowance payment. 
It did this and offered to pay an interest figure of £490.90 (net) and the breakdown of its 
calculation was shared with Mr and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C feel Ageas has tried to move the goalposts and is going over old ground by 
asking for more information after agreeing to settle matters with the Investigator. They say 
the interest payment theyre due should be much higher. And, as they paid the excesses a 
long time ago, they dont understand why theyre being asked for again. So, they requested 
an ombudsmans decision. 
Ageas supported this request  it said it had agreed to settle the dispute on the basis that 
interest would only be payable on balances for paid invoices, net of its interim payments. 
Since itd seen very few paid invoices, it wasnt expecting interest to be due.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
The key facts here arent in dispute. Ageas admits it got things wrong. The issue I must 
decide is whether the things it has agreed to do - as a result of the Investigators 
recommendations - to put matters right is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint. Im satisfied it is and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive thought about Mr Cs Statement which Ageas substantially agreed to pay after 
the Investigators view was issued. 
In the attachments to Mr Cs Statement, I note there are a number of quotations for work. 
But quotations arent the same as evidence the work has been undertaken and paid for by 
Mr and Mrs C. Whilst our service usually considers it reasonable for a business to ask the 
consumer to provide this evidence before it makes payment, this isnt what was ultimately 
offered by Ageas to settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim. Ageas also agreed to make payments for 
items the Investigator didnt consider it needed to, such as the windows. I think its important 
to say at this point I agree with the Investigators recommendations in relation to the amounts 
he didnt consider Ageas was responsible for. 
In light of above, I dont consider it helpful to depart from the offer made by Ageas as a result 
of the Investigators recommendations in relation to the cash settlement and the asbestos report (of £23,031.35) which was accepted by both parties and paid by Ageas. However, Ive 
taken this into account in coming to my decision overall.
Turning to interest. Any awards we make for interest on out-of-pocket costs paid by a 
consumer follow the same requirement for evidence Ive outlined above. So, a consumer is 
asked to provide evidence the payment was made and  particularly important for the 
interest calculation  when it was made. 
Ageas asked for this evidence and thats not unreasonable. Whilst I appreciate Mr C says 
hes done this, as Ive mentioned above, I can see much of the evidence doesnt show the 
information needed. So, I cant reasonably say this has been done. As a result, its 
reasonable for Ageas to decline to pay interest where this evidence is yet to be provided.
I am aware Mr C would like me to set out the specific amount of interest Ageas should pay, 
but I dont think thats for our service to do. I say this as the amount of interest to be paid is  
subject to evidence - dependent on the date Mr and Mrs C made the payment themselves 
and the date Ageas makes payment to Mr and Mrs C. Ageas also needs to factor interim 
payments and any excesses into its calculations as this will reduce the amount of interest 
due to be paid by it. This is because the first £1,000 Mr and Mrs C spent will not attract any 
interest as this will have been covered by their excess. This isnt a requirement for them to 
pay the excess again, rather it reflects the fact the first £1,000 spent by them needed to 
come from their own money and so interest wouldnt be due on this. 
Ageas offered to pay interest to Mr and Mrs C of £490.90 (net). For the reasons set out 
above, I wouldnt ordinarily consider it fair and reasonable to require a business to make a 
payment of interest without the appropriate evidence and so this isnt something Id require it 
to do. However, it has confirmed this amount is still open for acceptance by Mr and Mrs C to 
bring the matter of interest in this complaint to a close. 
Ive considered the compensatory payment of £1,500. Having done so, I think its important 
to explain our service must distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs 
C suffered because there was a leak at their home and its consequences, which Ageas isnt 
responsible for, with what Ageas did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. For 
example, the need for the main repairs to Mr and Mrs Cs home - whilst understandably 
disruptive and distressing  were a consequence of the water leak causing damage rather 
than something which is Ageas responsibility.
Taking everything into account, I think its right Ageas should compensate Mr and Mrs C for 
the impact of its failures in this matter. However, I also think its important to explain that, as 
a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. 
So, we look at the impact any mistakes had on the consumer concerned. I can see from 
what has been said by Mr C that he and his family found this claim understandably stressful 
and impactful. Its my view the recommendations made by the Investigator took this into 
account. I say this because they asked Ageas to pay compensation of £1,500 to recognise 
the impact Ageas actions had on Mr and Mrs C beyond the inconvenience of the leak and 
resulting claim. The recommendations also ensured Mr and Mrs C were given the money to 
finish the works at their property and put right the damage Mr and Mrs C said was caused by 
the claim and/or the contractors. And, as Ive set out above, the offer accepted by Mr and 
Mrs C from Ageas went beyond the Investigators recommendations.
As Ive mentioned, this was always going to be an incredibly difficult and distressing time for 
Mr and Mrs C and their young family and it wouldve taken a certain amount of time for the 
claim to be approved and works implemented in any event. I accept this period was made 
particularly distressing as they stayed in their home while the works were carried out. And I dont doubt Mr and Mrs C incurred extra costs  this often happens in these types of 
situations. However, Ageas paid £10,000 as a disturbance allowance to Mr and Mrs C. A 
disturbance allowance is designed to reflect the actual costs a consumer has incurred and 
so theyd usually be required to evidence their normal costs before the claim, as well as the 
costs incurred throughout the claim. However, industry practice is that the allowance should 
broadly be paid at a rate of £10 per day for each adult living at the insured property and £5 
for each child recognising not everyone keeps receipts for everyday expenses. Taking 
everything into account, I consider the amount Ageas paid as a disturbance allowance to Mr 
and Mrs C to be fair and reasonable in this matter. 
summary
In light of everything set out above, I consider the compensation of £1,500 Ageas has paid 
Mr and Mrs C in addition to the payment for the works and asbestos report (a total payment 
of £24,531.35) plus interest to be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint in the 
circumstances. I think the significance of the compensatory amount  along with the other 
payments Ageas has made (and agreed to make in relation to interest) - adequately 
recognises the failures Ageas and their agents have made which have elongated the claim 
process and added further distress and inconvenience in addition to what Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve experienced due to the leak itself.
Mr and Mrs C would like to ensure no one else suffers a similar case journey as they have. 
This isnt something that our service can do. We look at individual complaints. The Financial 
Conduct Authority is the party who regulates insurers and can consider their processes more 
generally. So, whilst this might be something they want to take forward with them, its not 
something I can consider in this matter. Neither can I consider a complaint about whether 
two excesses were payable or any issues with the recently obtained asbestos report which 
Mr C refers to but hasnt yet shared. This is because these matters need to be raised with 
Ageas, giving it the opportunity to investigate matters in the first instance. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs C may be disappointed overall with this outcome. But my decision 
ends what we  in trying to resolve the dispute with Ageas  can do for them. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Ageas Insurance Limited should take the following steps.
1. Settle the claim made by Mr and Mrs C relating to the leak in July 2021 by paying 
them £23,031.35. 
2. Pay interest at 8% simple on any out of pocket amounts Mr and Mrs C paid from Mr 
Cs statement, calculated from the date the payment was made by them to the date 
of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. This is subject to evidence of 
expenditure being provided to it. Ageas Insurance Limited may take into account the 
excesses and any interim payments made in that calculation. If HM Revenue & 
Customers requires Ageas Insurance Limited to deduct tax from this interest, Ageas 
Insurance Limited should give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted, if they ask for one.
3. Pay compensation of £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
From information sent to this service, I understand Ageas has already completed the steps 
above aside from the part relating to interest. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Ageas Insurance Limited should take the following steps.4. Settle the claim made by Mr and Mrs C relating to the leak in July 2021 by paying 
them £23,031.35. 
5. Pay interest at 8% simple on any amounts Mr and Mrs C have paid, calculated from 
the date the payment was made by them to the date of settlement. This is subject to 
evidence of expenditure being provided to it. Ageas Insurance Limited may take into 
account the excess(es) and any interim payments made in that calculation.
6. Pay compensation of £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
From information sent to this service, I understand Ageas has already completed the steps 
above aside from the part relating to interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. So, Ageas Insurance Limited needs to put 
things right by following the steps outlined above, if these havent already been done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman