DRN-3658213
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard), 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2017 Mr R entered into an agreement with Barclaycard to have access to credit 
by way of a credit card account. He was given a credit limit of £800. 
Mr R says that Barclaycard didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
credit card account. He says he was already struggling financially at the time.
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Rs financial circumstances before granting him the credit card 
account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclaycard 
carried out proportionate checks. 
As Mr R didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
Before opening the account, I think Barclaycard gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr R about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed credit 
and affordability checks which showed no adverse information. Barclaycard also relied on 
Mr Rs declared income of £18,500. It then verified this information using statistical data to 
work out Mr Rs monthly income, which was estimated at around £1,300. Based on that, 
Barclaycard estimated Mr Rs monthly expenditure as being around £550 per month, leaving 
him with around £700 of disposable income per month. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive also reviewed the information and evidence Barclaycard gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that at the time of the account opening 
the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr R. Ive seen that Barclaycard also looked 
into Mr Rs existing borrowing commitments and could see that these appeared to have 
been adequately managed with no evidence of having got into recent financial difficulties. 
The bank statements Mr R sent us from the three months before the account was opened 
shows Mr Rs income as being consistent with the information Barclaycard relied upon. I 
note he was making some loan repayments as well as making payments to a mobile phone 
account. 
Did Barclaycard act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr R says he had numerous payday loans as well as a severe gambling problem. From the 
evidence and information Ive seen, Mr R wasnt making use of payday loans at the time he 
opened the account. And whilst Ive seen from the bank statements Mr R sent us that he 
was using gambling sites in the months leading up to his account being opened, I agree with 
out adjudicator that this isnt something Id expect Barclaycard to have been aware of from 
the checks it carried out. Taking into account the level of opening credit, I also dont consider 
that Barclaycard necessarily had to carry out further checks before approving the card. I 
therefore agree with our adjudicator that Barclaycard didnt act unfairly when approving the 
finance application. It follows that it doesnt need to do anything more. 
Finally, Mr R has told us about complaints he has made to other lenders where the lenders 
have agreed to offer compensation. I cant comment on those as I dont know the details of 
each complaint or the particular circumstances in which compensation was offered. As a 
service, we consider each complaint based on its specific facts and circumstances. Whilst 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R on this occasion, Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully 
considered all the evidence and information hes given us about this complaint but I dont 
think Barclaycard acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman