DRN-1748026
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a credit card in February 2002. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on her credit card for up to 12 months at a time 
if she couldnt work.
Mrs C says she didnt know about the PPI. She says it was never mentioned. Mrs C says 
she didnt need the PPI.  
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs C applied for the credit card by completing an application form (although she originally 
thought she had been sold the card and PPI by phone). RBS has provided a copy of Mrs Cs 
original application form and this shows that Mrs C ticked a box to say she wanted the PPI. 
Mrs C says that the writing on the form isnt hers. I cant know with any certainty whether it 
was Mrs C who filled out the details  it may have been a member of staff helping her - but 
Mrs C hasnt suggested that she didnt read or sign the form. Even if someone else 
completed it I think Mrs C supplied all the information, because there is personal detail on 
the form that no one at RBS would have known. It was a short form consisting of only a 
single page requiring few details. I am satisfied its likely Mrs C would have had the 
opportunity to review the form before she signed it.
So, on balance, on the information I have, I think Mrs C bought the PPI knowing she had a 
choice about it, even if she doesnt remember doing so now. 
RBS didnt make a personal recommendation to Mrs C about buying the PPI, so it didnt 
need to check it was right for Mrs C. But it did have to make sure she had enough 
information to make her own decision about whether it was right for her. I dont think RBS did 
this. There is no detailed information about the cover on the form.
But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mrs Cs complaint though. I have to 
consider whether Mrs C would have acted differently and not bought the policy if shed had 
all the information available to her. Looking at Mrs Cs personal circumstances at the time of 
sale I think that she would have bought the policy. I say this because:
Mrs C was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs C wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than her full sick pay wouldve 
lasted. So, it provided an additional benefit;
Mrs C would have been entitled to statutory redundancy pay, but this would only 
have been worth a few weeks salary to her. Mrs C didnt have any significant 
savings at the time of sale. The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months at a 
time in the event of a successful claim, so I think it offered a useful additional benefit 
here too. 
Mrs C says she could have relied on her husband and extended family to meet her 
repayments if she couldnt work. But this support cant always be guaranteed to be 
available when its needed. And I think if Mrs C wasnt working then her husbands 
salary would already be covering other uninsured expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
So I dont think Mrs C lost out as a result of anything RBS might have done wrong.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint, so it follows that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman