DRN-3585765
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to his account 
when he used his overdraft facility during the pandemic. He thinks the charges applied goes 
against government guidance. 
What happened
Mr C complained to HSBC about the debit interest applied to his account.  HSBC says the 
changes in its pricing structure were due to new rules introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to make it easier for customers to understand and compare the cost of credit. And 
that it also provided further temporary support to customers during to pandemic and didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
In March 2020 HSBC changed its overdraft charging structure in-line with the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) requirements for financial institutions to restructure their charges 
to make it easier for consumers to understand the overall cost of their credit.
Shortly after this the FCA issued further guidance about what it expected financial 
institutions to do to assist consumers who may be struggling during the pandemic. Its 
guidance in respect of overdraft lending was that providers should exercise forbearance and 
provide tailored support such as reducing or waiving interest or transferring debt to an 
alternative provider or product on more favourable terms. But there was no stipulation or 
requirement about what the providers should do.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is about change in HSBCs pricing structure and the 
proportionality of the charges applied to his account during the pandemic. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. Just like it is up 
to Mr C to decide whether to accept what HSBC is offering or to take his business 
elsewhere. And providing HSBC notified Mr C of the change in its pricing structure in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and followed the FCAs guidance it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various charging structures or processes per se, it 
wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Cs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr C was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr C fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr C unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Cs statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
HSBC ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
Mr C may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Cs 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Mr C was able 
to bring the overdraft down and at times into credit before once again going on to use his 
overdraft to make debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Mr C wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in 
these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to any potential 
financial difficulty. And the amount being credited to Mr Cs account each month didnt 
indicate that there was no reasonable prospect of his seeing a credit balance at any stage 
either. 
And during the pandemic in response to the FCAs guidance I can see that for three months 
from April 2020 it stopped charging interest on the first £500 of overdraft borrowing and 
applied a reduced interest rate for any arranged overdraft balances over £500. I note that 
there is no record of Mr C informing or contacting HSBC of financial difficulties during the 
pandemic and I can see that in September 2021 although HSBC didnt force Mr C to reduce 
his overdraft limit, it took proactive steps by writing to Mr C to see if he C could reduce his 
reliance on his overdraft himself and provided the details of organisations that could assist 
should he feel he needed help. This is in-line with the guidance Ive outlined above so I dont 
think HSBC did anything wrong here  especially as based on the way Mr C was managing 
his account and overdraft facility, I dont think HSBC ought to have realised Mr C was in 
financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Cs account was being used. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman