DRN-2080757
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr M took out in 2013 on the 
advice of a representative of Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited. The complaint is that the 
lifetime mortgage was mis-sold. Mr M is represented in this complaint by his son, whom Ill 
refer to as Mr M1.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr M took the mortgage out in 2013, although the process of obtaining it began in 2012. The 
terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that 
the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care 
or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, 
but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr M1 has brought the complaint on his fathers behalf; he says it was mis-sold because its 
on a high interest rate, and that his father didnt need the money for the primary reason 
stated at the time  the purchase of a motor home. He also thought there was a clear conflict 
of interest in Quilters advisor witnessing Mr Ms signature on the mortgage deed. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr M1 asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
In bringing this complaint, Mr M1 has referred to us acting under delegated authority. Im 
not entirely sure what Mr M1 means by that; but to be clear, our power to deal with 
complaints derives from legislation, and the rules of the scheme. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have 
enough information on file to decide it. 
Mr M1 has also referred to what he describes as his grievance; that is, his own grievance 
about the sale of the mortgage. Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a 
consumer. Mr M is a consumer, and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out 
in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr M1 is 
bringing the complaint on his fathers behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr M1 represents his father, it is Mr M who is Quilters 
customer. Its Mr M1s role is to bring the complaint on his fathers behalf, in the same way 
that other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Mr M1 to air his own grievances about Quilter, because 
he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting forward his fathers complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Quilter did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it.
Staying with the point of sale documentation for a moment, this recorded that Mr M had 
declined to have a family member present during his meetings with Quilters advisor. 
Instead, it was recorded that Mr M intended to keep family informed of his plans and have a 
friend look over the paperwork. Theres nothing at all untoward in that.
Its not a requirement (whether legal, moral, regulatory or any other reason) for equity 
release applicants to involve their family in the transaction. If they do not, thats not 
automatically evidence of a procedural failing on the part of the advisor or a lack of concern 
for a persons potential vulnerability. Its more likely to just be an indication that the 
applicants wished to keep their business private. The advisor should recommend applicants 
tell their family, and in proceeding with the application on the basis of the 
information-gathering exercise, Mr M confirmed he would do so.The information-gathering exercise also identified specific financial objectives. Mr M1 
disputes the plausibility of one of these in particular; the purchase of a motor home. He says 
his father wasnt well enough to go travelling. Id remind him that by proceeding with the 
application, his father signed to confirm the information hed given about his personal 
circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. 
The information captured also indicated, that Mr M would need of some form of borrowing if 
he was to be able to realise his stated objectives. So Ive next considered whether 
something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been a better option. Given the overall 
financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, its very unlikely that Mr M would have 
been accepted for another traditional mortgage, given his age and circumstances, always 
assuming he wanted, or was able, to make regular monthly payments. 
That indicates to me that an equity release was probably the only viable option for Mr M 
given the circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage Quilter arranged for Mr M 
raised the money hed asked for.
That brings me to the interest rate. Mr M1 says the interest rate on the mortgage Quilter 
arranged is excessive. Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a 
particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. In any event, 
this complaint is about Quilter, and Quilter didnt set the rate.
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 15 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Quilter recommended the lender based on a variety of factors, not just the interest rate being 
charged.  Mr M1 has given me no reason to consider that the fixed rate the lender charged 
rendered that recommendation unsuitable.
Mr M1 has questioned whether a proper assessment was carried out to ensure his fathers 
property was worth enough to support the proposed loan. Thats not a matter for Quilters 
advisor; the adequacy of the proposed security for a loan is something for the lender to 
assess after it has received the application.
Looking again at Mr Ms situation as recorded at the time and taking into account the 
reasons why Quilter recommended the particular lifetime mortgage it did, Im not convinced 
Mr M would or could have done anything different from what he did. Mr M1 says that his 
fathers stated travel plans - hence the desire for a motor home - were at odds with his 
stated intention to continue running his business (another of the stated financial objectives 
was to clear his business overdraft). Im not sure these two are entirely mutually exclusive. 
Travelling doesnt just consist of leaving ones home and work for an extended period to 
explore the world, so to speak. It could just as easily be a desire to take periodic holidays 
or short breaks from work; and a motor home would mean Mr M had his accommodation 
arranged in advance
In any event, whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the 
mortgage was arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the 
time. Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr M subsequently changed his 
mind about what hed do with the money, or his circumstances changed to the extent that he 
couldnt do what hed said he wanted to do. But Quilters duty was to give suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Quilter couldnt insist 
Mr M follow every aspect of the advice it had given him. Nor was it obliged to monitor its 
customers behaviour after the sale to ensure he did what hed said he was going to do.
As to Mr Ms health at the point of sale, he told Quilter he was diabetic. Whilst not an 
insignificant condition, its not something that would, generally speaking, render unsuitable 
the advice Quilter gave Mr M. With careful management, the condition need not prevent 
someone from working (or indeed travelling). For me to attempt to make a more specific 
finding would require me to go beyond assessing what is most likely and resort to mere 
speculation; Im not prepared to do that. However, I dont believe I need to in order to decide 
this complaint. 
Thats because, before he took out the mortgage Mr M was required to have independent 
legal advice from a solicitor. Ive not had sight of the relevant certificate; its something that is 
arranged by the lender rather than Quilter, and weve not been able to obtain a copy from 
the lender. 
But Im satisfied on balance that the advice was given; the lenders has said so, albeit that it 
no longer has the certificate. Even Mr M1 appears to concede the point, even if only by 
implication, as hes referenced the firm of solicitors as not being known to the family. That, in 
itself, doesnt imply anything sinister. Whether a consumer elects to receive the advice from 
their own solicitor, or choses one from a list provided by the advice firm, the relationship 
between solicitor and consumer remains separate, discrete, and independent from the 
relationship between advice firm and customer.
The solicitor  most likely chosen by Mr M1 from a list provided by Quilter  will have 
confirmed that the terms of the mortgage had been explained to Mr M. I think that if the 
solicitor had had any concerns that Mr M didnt understand (or indeed, wasnt capable of 
understanding) the nature and effect of what he was signing, he wouldnt have been allowed 
to proceed with it.
Lastly, Mr M1 says that it was illegal of Quilters advisor to witness Mr Ms signature on the 
mortgage deed. A comment he made in an email dated 6 August 2020 suggests he only 
brought the complaint after discovering this had taken place.
I know of no legislation that makes it illegal for that to happen; its possible Mr M1 may be 
conflating this situation with the execution of a will where the law prevents beneficiaries from 
witnessing a persons signature on their will. 
Nor do I consider it creates a conflict of interest. I appreciate Mr M1 says the advisor had a 
vested interest in the transaction going through, but its not as though the advisor witnessing 
Mr Ms signature was somehow a gateway to the transaction going through, and that but 
for that, the mortgage wouldnt have happened. 
Had the advisor not signed as witness, its reasonable to conclude Mr M would simply have 
asked another party to do so. However, whoever did witness Mr Ms signature could not be a 
family member or an occupant of the property. In that context, the advisor witnessing Mr Ms 
signature seems to me to have been no more or less than a procedural convenience.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman