DRN-3751651
The complaint
Mr D complained that his claim for damage under his home warranties / sofa care policy was 
unfairly declined by Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust).
What happened
When Mr D bought two sofas around three years ago, he bought a protection policy for them 
which was provided by Amtrust. Mr D said his twins accidentally spilt a whole pot of curry 
over one of the sofas whilst eating. Mr D noticed hed damaged the back of one of the sofas 
when he moved it to clean it.
Mr D made a claim to Amstrust. Initially Mr D was provided some cleaning materials, but 
when these didnt work Amtrust sent an assessor to review the damage.
Amtrust decided to decline the claim based upon the assessors report. It said there were 
many stains which had occurred over time. Amtrust said the damage to the back of the sofa 
had been caused by the sofa rubbing up against the wall. Amtrust said the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy as the policy doesnt cover gradually occurring stains or damage. 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He agreed there were other stains on the 
sofa but said Mr D was only claiming for the curry stain and the damage to the back of the 
sofa. He didnt see any evidence to suggest there wasnt a curry stain. As this was a single 
incident, he thought Amtrust should cover this claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. Amtrust disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 13 September 2022. I said:
I have reviewed what Amtrust said when it declined the claim. It said:
The insurance you have purchased is designed to cover for sudden and unforeseen 
damage that occurs in a single incident of staining and accidental damage defined as 
sudden and unintentional damage to the product as shown in the Coverage section on the 
front of your certificate. We do not cover any gradually occurring stains or damage(s).
They have advised that there are large areas of staining across all sofas, worst staining is 
present across all arms and seats which have dark patches which feel greasy to the touch 
but further staining also present on back cushion panels. In addition to the dark greasy type 
stains there are multiple other stain types including coloured pen, whiteish staining and liquid 
type marks. There are multiple areas of stain upon stains. Various areas of stains upon 
stains and wear/fading of some stains support this.
We do not cover any gradually occurring stain or damage, any gradually occurring general 
soiling which results in build up or any multiple stains occurring over a period of time as 
detailed in Section 4 of your protection plan certificate as this prejudices our ability to remove 
the stain successfully.
I have considered what Amtrust has said and its based upon the report of its assessor. The 
report is consistent with the photographs that have been provided of the sofa. The 
commentary is consistent with what I can see in the photographs. However, I dont think 
Amtrusts reasoning to decline the claim is consistent with what has been claimed for.
Amtrust has said there are multiple stains on the sofa, which it says provides evidence that 
they have occurred gradually over time. If this was the case, then Id say there conclusion to 
decline the claim is fair as the policy does exclude any stains or damage arising over time, 
gradual wear and tear, or your product becoming gradually dirty and out of condition over 
time.
However, Mr D explained the curry stain happened in a one-off incident with his children and 
this had happened recently. I have checked the policy and it says the policy covers 
Accidental Staining  in this Plan this means sudden and unintentional spills of food. I think 
the claim Mr D has made is consistent with Amtrusts definition of accidental staining. The 
assessors report doesnt specifically state whether a curry stain is or isnt present on the 
sofa. Its quite vague in this respect which isnt useful. However, it does refer to dark 
patches which feel greasy to the touch. I think its likely this is from a recent food spillage as 
its still greasy, so its likely its the food spillage that Mr D claimed for.
Therefore, I dont think Amtrust has been fair in declining the claim for the curry spillage, as 
this is covered by the policy under Accidental Staining. Therefore, I intend to require Amtrust 
to settle this claim (for the curry spillage) in line with its remaining terms and conditions.
Mr Ds claim was also for the damage he noticed on the back of his sofa when he moved it. 
Mr D said he thought this happened when he tried to move the sofa to clean it following the 
spillage. Amtrust said damage appears to be caused from rubbing on wall and radiator 
behind sofas - visible damage present to wall behind manual sofa, white paint on manual 
sofa suggests this was once placed in front of radiator on other side of the room. Not 
consistent with a single incident. 
The photographs do support what the assessor wrote in his report, there is definite and clear 
gradual damage along the top of the sofa running from one side to the other where the top of 
the sofa looks like it may have rubbed or pressed against the radiator. However, the tear 
itself looks to be in a different area to the rubbing and I think its more likely it was caused in 
one-off incident, rather than gradually over time. I have no reason to think this tear didnt 
happen when Mr D said it had - when he moved his sofa to clean it. Therefore, I uphold this 
part of the complaint, I intend for Amtrust to cover this claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions.
It's unlikely Mr D will have been able to use the sofa properly since the curry spill due to the 
greasy nature of the residue. Therefore, I think the delays in Amtrust repairing this will have 
inconvenienced Mr D, so I intend to award £75 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust didnt have anything further to add following my provisional decision. It didnt 
comment on whether it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr D didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions (for the curry stain 
and tear)
Pay Mr D £75 compensation  for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman