DRN-1643097
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) delayed a withdrawal from her 
ISA. 
What happened
Mrs M has an ISA with ATS and on 10 May 2019 Mr M tried to make a withdrawal online. 
But Mr M called ATS after he experienced some problems sending the funds to Mrs Ms 
nominated account. ATS told Mr M there was a systems problem that was affecting its ability 
to process withdrawals. ATS advisor said they would arrange for Mrs Ms nominated 
account details to be reapplied so Mr M could arrange the withdrawal. 
On 13 May 2019 ATS says it reapplied Mrs Ms nominated account details to its systems 
and sent £4,000.41 to her. 
Mr M complained on Mrs Ms behalf. He was concerned that Mrs M couldnt access her 
funds at any time, as promised. Mr M says ATS caused an unreasonable level of concern to 
Mrs M while she wasnt able to access her funds. Mr M has told us that Mrs M had to borrow 
money from another party to meet priority bills. 
ATS responded to Mrs Ms complaint and paid her £30 and sent her £25 in retail vouchers to 
apologise. Mr M referred Mrs Ms complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator didnt ask ATS to do anything else as she felt it had dealt with 
Mrs Ms complaint fairly. Mr M asked to appeal and sent a detailed list of his concerns for 
consideration. As Mr M asked to appeal on behalf of Mrs M, Ive been passed her complaint 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr M for setting out his concerns regarding Mrs Ms complaint in detail. Ive 
read and considered everything Mr M and ATS have sent us in relation to this complaint. Im 
not going to respond to all of the points Mr M has made in his response to the investigator 
and will focus on what I feel are the key issues of the complaint. I hope Mrs M and Mr M 
wont take that as a discourtesy  it reflects the informal nature of this service. 
I agree there was a delay caused by an IT problem at ATS that meant the withdrawal 
process couldnt begin on 10 May 2019 as Mrs M requested. ATS was able to resolve the 
problem on 13 May 2019 and reapplied Mrs Ms nominated account details to its systems. 
Mrs Ms funds were released the following day. ATS says that it aims to fulfil withdrawal 
requests within two to four days and that Mrs Ms funds were released in line with that. In 
response to the investigator, Mr M has raised concerns about the delay and ATS processing 
times. I have to take into account that ATS has confirmed it doesnt carry out same day 
withdrawals. So Mrs Ms withdrawal was never going to go through on 10 May 2019, a 
Friday. The next business day was 13 May 2019, the day ATS corrected its systems 
problem and reapplied Mrs Ms nominated account information. Mrs Ms funds were sent to 
her the following day on 14 May 2019. Its not entirely clear whether the systems issue did 
cause a delay, but even if it did, I think it was likely around one day. I think the earliest ATS 
could have completed the withdrawal was the next business day which was 13 May 2019, 
the day before Mrs Ms funds were released. 
Mr M says ATS advertises a same day withdrawal service but I dont agree. As Ive said 
above, ATS has confirmed it doesnt offer that service. The promotional information Mr M 
submitted says customers can access their money at any time but thats not the same as 
saying account holders will have instant access. The account terms set out Mrs Ms 
relationship with ATS and dont include any reference to same day or instant access. 
Whilst I agree there was a delay, it was reasonably short and the funds were released on 14 
May 2019, two business days after the initial request for a withdrawal. Mr M says Mrs M was 
distressed by ATS delay and had to borrow money to cover priority bills. But Mr M hasnt 
told us about a cost to that borrowing and, as Ive said, I havent found any evidence of an 
extensive delay here. 
Mr M says the £30 ATS paid Mrs M related to future fees, not compensation for this 
complaint. But Ive looked at ATS evidence and responses to Mrs Ms complaint. All the 
information Ive seen shows the £30 settlement was a refund of fees paid on 24 May 2019. 
ATS confirmed it issued the refund to apologise to Mrs M. I can see ATS also sent Mrs M a 
retail voucher for £25 and apologised for what happened. 
Whilst I note all Mr Ms comments, made on behalf of Mrs M, I havent been persuaded to 
tell ATS to increase the settlement paid. I agree ATS had a systems issue which affected the 
length of time it took to release Mrs Ms funds. But Im satisfied that the settlement ATS has 
already paid takes the impact of the delay and issues raised into account and is fair in all the 
circumstances. As Im satisfied ATS has already dealt with Mrs Ms complaint reasonably 
and paid a fair level of compensation Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because Alliance Trust Savings Limited has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman