DRN-4309930
The complaint
Mr D has complained BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited added a fraud-related marker to 
his record without providing him with adequate notice. He wants the marker removed.
What happened
In 2019 Mr D went to buy a car and applied for finance with BMW. In support of his 
application he provided three bank statements and three payslips. BMW rejected Mr Ds 
application as they believed hed falsified information on his bank statements and provided 
fake payslips. They loaded a marker to the fraud industry database, CIFAS.
Mr D bought the car outright.
Whilst Mr D admitted providing altered information, he complained to BMW that theyd not 
provided him with a Fair Processing Notice as required, so this meant the CIFAS marker 
should be removed. BMW provided Mr D with final responses in 2020 and 2023.
Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service in early 2023.
Our investigator considered the breadth of information Mr D provided in support of his case, 
as well as reviewing the facts of the case. She explained it was her role to decide whether 
BMW had met the bar set by CIFAS to submit a marker under its rules. She felt overall they 
had and that it was most likely BMW had acted with legitimate interest in sharing Mr Ds 
personal information with CIFAS.
Mr D appealed this view and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
I can see our investigator confirmed why she thought our service had jurisdiction to consider 
all aspects of Mr Ds complaint. Neither party commented on this aspect, so Ive no need to 
refer to this within my decision any further. However to avoid any doubt, Im satisfied all 
issues are within our jurisdiction for me to consider.
Id like to thank Mr D for his honesty in sharing his medical health history in such detail. I can 
confirm Ive reviewed this in full and considered what impact, if any, this should have on his 
complaint.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So BMW must be able to provide clear evidence that an identified fraud was being 
committed and Mr D was involved. 
Actually all parties accept this was the case. Ive seen the three bank statements and 
payslips Mr D gave to BMW at the time of the finance application. I accept his story that he 
naively believed falsifying this information would show him in a better light and more able to 
pay for a long-term credit agreement, particularly taking into account his age at the time of 
the application. However theres no dispute that Mr D changed the payer of three credits into 
his account to the name of a non-existent employer, altered the amount of one credit and 
provided three payslips which werent real either.
So I can see why BMW believe theyve met the high bar set for lodging a CIFAS marker. I 
agree they have.
As our investigator explained, my role isnt to decide whether Mr D committed an identified 
fraud or not but whether BMW had enough evidence to enable them to lodge the marker. Id 
be rather surprised if Mr D is a fraudster, so I can absolutely understand why hes unhappy 
about the marker which Im sure he feels is disproportionate to what happened. I accept that 
but whilst I sympathise I cant oblige BMW to remove the marker even though Ive 
considered Mr Ds personal circumstances.
Ive also reviewed the other aspect of Mr Ds complaint  that BMW werent able to share his 
personal information with CIFAS because he wasnt provided with a specific notice. The 
evidence on this is contradictory. But I agree with our investigator that BMW has acted with 
legitimate interest here in sharing Mr Ds details.
I stress that its not our services role to adjudicate on issues of data protection as theres a 
separate institution thats the regulator on this. Mr D can refer this issue to the Information 
Commissioners Office if he wishes.
I appreciate how concerned Mr D is about what has happened but Im not going to ask BMW 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman