DRN-3246839
The complaint
Mr H says Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) is responsible for delays, in the internal in 
specie transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), that lasted a year (between 
May 2019 and May 2020). He seeks compensation for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused to him, including having to liquidate other assets for income because his SIPP was 
inaccessible for this purpose during the transfer. He acknowledges that other parties in the 
transfer might have contributed to the delay but he says SL was ultimately responsible to 
him for completion of the transfer and that evidence of the process shows it did not apply 
any urgency to the matter even when the delays became extreme.
SL disputes the substance of the complaint. It says the transfer was not internal, it was an in 
specie transfer of the SIPP from Phoenix Life/Group (the ceding scheme) to SL (the 
receiving scheme); SL was reliant upon the ceding scheme to conduct its role in the transfer 
in a timely fashion and, because it was an in specie transfer, it was also reliant on the 
external funds/fund managers related to the SIPP to do the same; delays were mainly 
caused by difficulties from a particular fund (the Guinness Global Equity Fund/the Guinness 
fund) and from its manager; SL is not responsible for that and even if it chased more than it 
did it does not follow that there would have been a difference to what these third parties did; 
after the transfer it mitigated the effect, on Mr H, of the overall delay by backdating, to the 
2019/20 tax year, payment of income from the SIPP (so it was made within his personal 
allowance and at no extra tax liability); it upheld the complaint and offered Mr H £250 
compensation only because of its delay in addressing the complaint and because his 
backdated income was paid later than it had hoped to do.
Mr H rejected SLs compensation offer, he considers it derisory and insufficient. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He found that SLs compensation offer to Mr H was enough to reflect its role in the 
overall transfer delay and to conclude the complaint. In response, SL disputed the finding 
that it played any role in the overall delay but it maintained its compensation offer; and Mr H 
maintained his view that the offer is insufficient. 
The investigator mainly said:
For corporate merger/acquisition reasons, SL stood as ultimate provider of the 
schemes Mr H was transferring his SIPP from and to; and the WRAP platform 
service for the SIPP he transferred to was also provided on behalf of SL. 
[As such the investigator referred to SL separately in its roles as the ceding scheme 
and the receiving scheme.]
The transfer process began on 16 July 2019 (not in May); on 30 July Ceding SL 
(CSL) sent off authority for the transfer of the Guinness fund holding; by 2 
September all stocks in the SIPP, expect the units in the Guinness fund, were 
matched; on 11 September CSL learnt it had to issue a stock acceptance form for 
those units, which it did on 20 September; on 16 October Mr Hs financial adviser 
chased SL for progress and on 17 October SL reacted by sending a chaser for the 
Guinness funds units; it sent another chaser for this on 5 November (when Mr Hs 
adviser also made an initial complaint on his behalf); on 11 November Receiving SL 
(RSL) learnt that it too had to submit the form, which it did on 20 November; on 27 
November SL was told the form had been forwarded to the Guinness funds 
manager; SL chased for progress on 21 December and, on 23 December, was told 
the funds manager was still awaiting RSLs form; on 8 January 2020 SL challenged 
this, but the funds managers position remained the same and was restated on 23 
January; SL re-submitted the form on 5 February; on 14 February CSL was told 
2,734.84 units in the Guinness fund had been transferred to RSL; RSL followed up 
on this on 24 February but was told by the funds manager that it was still awaiting 
the form; on 5 March RSL re-submitted the form; eventually, on 9 March the funds 
manager confirmed receipt of the form but it also referred to a different and lower 
number of units (2,704.61 units); from 11 March SL sought to resolve the 
discrepancy and it confirmed it had done so on 2 April; on 26 March Mr Hs adviser 
submitted another complaint on his behalf; and by 12 May the transfer had been 
completed and the backdated income payment to Mr H was made.
Overall, and based on the instances in which it took more than 10 working days to 
chase or take required action, SL directly contributed 39 working days to the delays 
that faced the transfer  including the delay, beyond 10 working days, between its 
receipt of Mr Hs advisers income drawdown request on 8 April 2020 and the 
payment to him on 12 May. Others, not SL, were responsible for the rest/majority of 
the transfer delays and SL cannot reasonably be held liable for that, or for the entire 
delay. 
Furthermore, there is no financial loss in the complaint. Mr H has not submitted 
evidence to show such loss and his point about drawing funds from other assets 
during the delay is balanced by the fact that his SIPP benefitted from remaining 
invested (without withdrawals) during the delay. In addition, SLs backdating of the 
income payment eliminated any adverse tax related effect of the delay. Mr H suffered 
some trouble and upset in the matter and SLs offer of £250 reasonably addresses 
such impact directly upon him, given that his adviser represented him throughout the 
transfer process (and pursued complaints on his behalf) and given that he had 
recourse to other sources of funds (for income).
Mr H considered the 10 working days allowance to be arbitrary, unduly generous and wrong; 
he acknowledged that SLs backdating of the income payment helped to avoid an additional 
20% tax charge for the 2020/21 tax year but he said had it not done so such tax liability 
would have been a financial cost of its delay; he considers SL to be ultimately responsible 
for the delays because it, and no other firm, was directly responsible for his interests so he 
disagrees with the investigators dilution of its liability by referring to others involved in the 
transfer process; he said there is evidence in the timeline to establish a litany of inaction by 
and disinterest from SL, plus a lack of urgency on its part in response to the delays.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators, for the same 
reasons he gave.I note from one of Mr Hs advisers emails to SL that SLs offer of compensation for trouble 
and inconvenience was countered with the suggestion, by his adviser, that an award from 
the Pension Ombudsman  for circumstances like those in his case  would be at least 
£500. If, as it appears, this is the least Mr H considered he should receive for the trouble and 
inconvenience he was caused by the transfer delay, it would appear that  on a fair and 
reasonable basis  his expectation shares common ground with the investigators view. I 
address this further below.
I understand the arguments SL has made about not being obliged to manage how third 
parties discharged their responsibilities in the transfer (and not being liable for those 
responsibilities), about not contributing to the delays and about the unlikelihood that 
additional chasing from it would have made a difference to what the fund managers did in 
the process. However, I agree with the investigators finding that, on balance, SL contributed 
to the transfer delays  at least to the extent of the 39 working days he identified. 
He identified seven specific instances over which its contribution to the delays happened. I 
have not seen evidence that earlier action or chasing by SL, in those instances, would have 
been inconsequential. I do not say either was guaranteed to inject speed into the process, 
but I have not seen evidence to establish SLs argument that either would probably have 
been ineffective. Based on the chronology of events summarised above, the investigator 
highlighted SLs inaction between 30 July and 2 September 2019, between 20 September 
and 17 October 2019, between 17 October and 5 November 2019, between 27 November 
and 21 December 2019, between 23 December 2019 and 23 January 2020, between 11 
March and 2 April 2020 and between 8 April and 12 May 2020. He applied/deducted the 10 
working days allowance in each period and found the remainder to be delay caused by SL. 
Overall and on balance, I consider that earlier action by SL during each of these periods  
for the purposes defined by what was happening in each period  would probably not have 
gone unnoticed by the relevant parties, would have prompted a reaction from them, would 
probably have made a form of difference to the transfer process and could have reduced (or 
eliminated) SLs contribution to, and/or partial responsibility for, the overall delay.
It is reasonably clear from the chronology of events that the majority of the delays were 
beyond SLs control. Mr H says (or suggests) that his sole relationship was with SL. 
However, the fact was that the Guinness funds manager was relevant to his holding of that 
funds units in his SIPP and the firm that provided the platform for the fund (and his holding 
in it) was Fidelity FundsNetwork, SL liaised with both parties with regards to the transfer but 
they were all distinct and separate entities and I have not seen evidence that SL implicitly or 
expressly held or shared responsibility for the other parties actions. Furthermore, all these 
parties had, in one form or another, a connection with Mr H  as I have just summarised  so 
it is not quite correct to depict SL as being the only party with a connection to him.
Following from the above findings, the conclusion thus far is that SL contributed to the 
transfer delays during the aforementioned periods. Even if Mr H considers that it could have 
done more during other periods  which I am not persuaded to support  on balance I am 
satisfied that the seven mentioned above are the main areas in which SL could and should 
have done more. I note his disagreement with the 10 working days allowance the 
investigator applied in each period. Even if this allowance was halved  and if SL should 
have acted within five working days in each identified period  this would add 35 working 
days (five additional days for each of the seven identified periods) to the 39 working days the 
investigator calculated. The total would then be 74 working days  or around 3 months. 
The transfer took 10 months before it was completed. If this analysis is stretched to its 
unreasonable extreme and if no time allowance for action is applied (with SL held 
responsible for the total length of each of the seven periods) a further 35 working days would be added and the total would be 109 working days  or around 5 months.
The above illustrates that in broad terms, at worst and with an unreasonable basis, SL would 
be responsible for no more than half of the 10 months process; also in broad terms, if an 
allowance of five working days is applied it would be responsible for around a third of those 
10 months, and based on the investigators calculation it would be responsible for around a 
fifth of those 10 months. I do not support the first illustration. It cannot reasonably be said 
that every working day in each of the seven periods amounted to a day of delay caused by 
SL. It is reasonable to allow for reasonable time in which SL ought to have acted. Either five 
or 10 working days could be argued in this respect and neither results in SL contributing 
more than 3 months to the 10 months process (so, a third of that duration).
SL should not bear liability for the entire or overall delay. The chronology of events shows 
that difficulties and delays were caused around the processing and transfer of the Guinness 
fund holding, that they caused the main and significant body of delays to the process and 
that they were not difficulties and delays initiated by SL. As I mentioned earlier, Mr H 
appears to expect at least £500 for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him in the 
matter. SLs minority contribution to the matter and the mitigating factors the investigator 
mentioned  the fact that his adviser pursued the transfer on his behalf (thereby reducing 
direct impact, to an extent, on him) and the fact that SLs backdated income payment helped 
to avoid an adverse tax impact  would suggest responsibility for certainly no more than half 
of this amount. Hence, my view that Mr H could find that he shares common ground with the 
investigator in terms of the latters finding that the £250 offer is fair.
I too consider the offer to be fair on the balance of all the reasons addressed above. I do not 
dismiss the seriousness of a SIPP transfer that was unduly protracted for almost a year. I 
also do not dismiss the effect (in terms of trouble, distress and inconvenience) that delay 
must have had on Mr H, but SL cannot reasonably be held responsible for all of that effect. 
Overall and on balance, I consider that its offer of £250 caters for its partial responsibility for 
the effect upon Mr H (and for its delay in addressing his complaint). I do not uphold his claim 
for more. The SIPP was transferred in specie, so there appears to have been no investment 
loss within it that was caused directly by the delay. I have not seen evidence of a financial 
loss to Mr H in that respect or from elsewhere, caused by the delay. I also endorse the 
investigators point that the fact Mr H had to withdraw funds from other assets, because of 
the delay, would have been balanced by the benefit to his SIPP of remaining invested 
without withdrawals at the time  which would have meant better prospects of growth in the 
SIPP during that period than would have been the case if income had been withdrawn from it 
earlier.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman