DRN-2898845
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank wont refund a 
payment made on her credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for 
ticket to an American Football game.
What happened
In June 2019 tickets were purchased through the Website to attend an American Football 
game using Mrs Es Tesco credit card. The total cost charged to her card was £639.06
Mrs Es son was the account holder with the website through which the purchase was made. 
Mrs E was the account holder for the credit card and authorised her son to make the 
transaction to buy the tickets on her credit card.
Tesco sent Mrs E a text message about whether the transaction was genuine. But then the 
transaction went through. Mrs E soon discovered that her son had paid more than she had 
envisaged for the tickets. So Mrs E complained to Tesco.
Tesco looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it says that 
although it sent the text message this didnt mean that the transaction had been stopped or 
couldnt later go through. It also didnt think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt 
have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. It also thought a Section 75 claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more 
for Mrs E.
Mrs E didnt think this was fair on both grounds, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly by 
declining Mrs Es request for a refund. Mrs E didnt agree. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the secondary ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the 
original purchaser of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website (which was then bought in this case). This decision is only about 
whether Tesco has treated Mrs E fairly in not refunding the transaction. 
authorising the transaction
Mrs E says her son had the account with the Website and was authorised by her to make 
the purchase of the tickets made here using her credit card. She isnt saying the transaction 
was made by any other party and accepts that her son got the tickets to the game and that 
he attended with other people who he had bought the tickets for. 
Mrs E says during the transaction her son put in their wrong address having moved. Ive 
asked Tesco about this. It notes that Mrs E didnt notify it of the change of address until after 
the transaction. So Tesco wasnt to know that the address was different. And under the 
relevant regulations there are mandatory requirements in such credit card transactions. And 
Ive considered these here. And many banks and indeed merchants ask for further 
information which isnt mandatory in such transactions for a variety of reasons including for 
security, marketing and indeed many other reasons. So having considered all of this even if 
Tesco had been on notice that the address was different this wouldnt necessarily have 
stopped the transaction going through. And I should add that how banks and merchants fulfil 
their various obligations around transactions are for them to decide and is not for publication 
for reasons such as their commercial interests and also to fulfil other obligations such as 
their broad duty to prevent fraud.
Mrs E points to the amount of the transaction being different from what she had envisaged or 
indeed the face value of the tickets. This service has over the years built up a very detailed 
knowledge of the website concerned processes and what exactly those using it saw during 
the various iterations of the website over the years. Mrs E says the website is very different 
now compared to what her son would have seen then. This is true. And this service knows it 
is true through its knowledge of the website processes and what purchasers would have 
seen over time. And as a consequence of this Im satisfied that Mrs Es son would have 
been shown the total cost of the tickets (including fees and charges) at the point he entered 
the card details. So as the card numbers were entered after this point it is clear that Mrs Es 
son was happy to proceed at that cost even though it was more than Mrs E envisaged.
Mrs E points to the text message received. But by this time her son had correctly input the 
card details and seen the total cost of the transaction and proceeded from there. So it is 
clear to me that he had been provided with the necessary information and in turn had 
provided the required information to both consent and authorise the transaction. Accordingly 
Im not persuaded Tesco did anything wrong by applying to Mrs Es credit card account, 
notwithstanding either the text message or the re-representation of the transaction by the 
website. Mrs Es son had seen the key details of the transaction and had consented to it and 
authorised it.
Mrs E says that originally it was envisaged another website would be used and that her son 
was redirected to this website. Considering the websites Im not persuaded her son was 
misrepresented to by the website in this case. I think the redirection would be clear from the 
process he would have had to go through on this website. And notwithstanding that Im not 
persuaded this makes a material difference. He wanted to buy tickets for a specific game, 
paid the amount for the tickets that was clear at the time of the transaction and indeed 
attended the game.
Mrs E also points to the issue that the website re-represented the transaction to Tesco after 
it initially hadnt gone through. As Ive described this isnt a decision regarding the website. 
Ultimately Mrs Es son had entered the correct card details and had consented to and 
authorised the transaction on behalf of Mrs E as she accepts. So Im not persuaded Tesco 
did anything wrong in applying the transaction to Mrs Es credit card account.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs E 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mrs E didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (the Website) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Tesco should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Tesco) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Tesco isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is 
a reasonable prospect of success.
Tesco originally suggested to Mrs E to attend the event as there was no persuasive 
evidence that the tickets wouldnt/hadnt been supplied or that theyd be refused admission. 
And Mrs E accepts that her son attend the game and the all the tickets were used (although 
she didnt attend herself).
So throughout Tesco didnt think making a chargeback request had a reasonable prospect of 
success. So considering what it knew and the overall circumstances here, all in all, I dont 
think Mrs E has lost out due to Tescos approach to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Es Tescos credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Tesco as she does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In summary section 56 has the effect of making Tesco responsible during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs E entering into the agreement. In essence this 
means Tesco can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales 
process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. But this isnt the case here. It was Mrs Es credit card account that was used to 
pay for the transaction, but it was Mrs Es sons account on the website purchasing the 
tickets.  So although Mrs E financed the transaction she isnt the purchaser of the ticket-her 
son was. So in essence Mrs E is a fourth party in this situation. 
Ive reviewed the Websites terms and conditions which explains that in order to be able to 
use its services account holders must agree to its terms. It also says they will not allow 
customers to buy tickets unless they have registered with their service. In this case it was 
Mrs Es sons account that was used to complete the purchase, so it is Mrs Es son who 
entered into the contract with the website as he registered with them and also agreed to their 
terms when he completed the purchase. Mrs E didnt contract with the website or agree to its 
terms or indeed attend the game. So although she financed the transaction through her credit card she wasnt party to the contract to supply the tickets and thus this breaks the 
DCS chain in this case.
Accordingly Im satisfied that there isnt the necessary DCS relationship present to make 
Tesco responsible under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Tesco isnt responsible for 
any failings by the Website. So Mrs Es complaint here fails.
All in all Ive considered Tescos approach throughout and dont think it has acted unfairly. I 
think that Mrs E hasnt lost out as I think Tesco made a fair decision in not taking the 
chargeback issue further when she raised the matter. Im satisfied the necessary relationship 
(DCS) isnt in place here so Tesco cannot be held liable for any breach or misrepresentation 
by the Website. And I think Tesco correctly applied the cost of the tickets to Mrs Es credit 
card account. So I dont think I can fairly require Tesco to refund Mrs E for the tickets.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman