DRN-1651200
 
The complaint
Mr P and Ms S complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold them 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 to support 
their joint mortgage and changed in 2004 to support a further advance. 
 
What happened
Mr P and Ms S complained to this Service. They said they didnt know they had PPI. So they 
conclude it was added without their knowledge. They said they had separate insurance 
cover, so they didnt need the PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it looked like they were 
offered an optional policy; it was suitable for their needs when it was taken out and was still 
suitable when it was later amended. She said the information might have been clearer, but 
they probably would have bought the PPI anyway.
Mr P and Ms S disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked 
at again. They added the following main points:
they had other insurances, good income and employee benefits, so they didnt need 
PPI;
Mr P had eczema which he couldnt claim for on the PPI policy.
The PPI only covered Mr P so I will sometimes only refer to him; but I will refer to Mr P and 
Ms S where appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in the PPI 
section in our website.
Having looked at the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps and Ms Ss complaint. I 
know this will be a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
I first looked at whether BOS made Mr P and Ms S aware the policy was optional. They said 
they didnt know they had bought PPI. But I looked at the separate PPI application form from 
1997. As it was a separate form, I can reasonably assume they didnt have to complete it at 
all and so could decline PPI. I also saw Mr P had signed the form and I think this was 
enough for him to consent to have PPI added to their mortgage account. 
I havent seen the application form for the 2004 amendment. But I think they were probably 
aware the policy was optional and chose to take it later when their borrowing increased in 
2004. So I think the PPI was most likely presented to them as an optional product and it was 
added to their account with their consent. I noted also that both policies were tailored to 
cover Mr P only, even though Ms S was also working. So I think they probably were aware of 
PPI and consented to have it added to their account.  
BOS said the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for their 
needs. In this case, I think Mr P was eligible for both PPI policies, it seems each policy was 
affordable for him and, although he may have been affected by the things the policies didnt 
cover (the exclusions), I still think both policies were probably suitable for their needs.
For years 1997 and 2004, Mr P said he was in full time employment and could get good 
employee benefits from his employers if he was off sick or couldnt work due to an accident; 
he had savings, other insurance cover, their parents and a car to sell if he couldnt make the 
monthly repayments.
However, having decided they wanted PPI and chose to have it, I think Mr P and Ms S 
thought the policies provided a valuable benefit to them in addition to Mr Ps employee 
benefits, savings and other insurance. I think the PPI could have paid out for longer than his 
employee benefits at a time when they might have needed it most. 
I appreciate he says he could rely on selling his car to pay for his mortgage, but a car is a 
depreciating asset and may not cover all the mortgage repayments for a year. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable. 
Mr P said they could rely on their parents to help them. I do understand his point, but there 
was no guarantee that they could still rely on this help at some unknown point in the term of 
the mortgage. So I dont think this makes the policy unsuitable for them.
Mr P said he could rely on Ms Ss income, but I think Mr Ps policy could at least have 
covered his half of the mortgage repayments if he couldnt work  and I think this was a 
useful benefit for them.
Mr P said he suffered from eczema at the time of the sale, but he said this was treated with 
creams. He hasnt told us about the severity of his condition or if it stopped him from 
working. However, as it was treated with medication, I can reasonably assume he didnt 
have to take time off work and wasnt likely to make a claim on the policy for his condition. 
So I dont think this made the policy unsuitable for him.
I think it was useful for Mr P and Ms S to be able to rely on the PPI policy for mortgage 
repayments instead of using their other funds and insurances which could be used for other 
expenses. So I dont think their finances at the time of the sale made the policies unsuitable 
for them. 
I also looked at whether BOS gave Mr P and Ms S enough clear information about the 
policies. In respect of the cost and benefits, it isnt clear whether the documents set out the 
cost of the PPI  this is a potential shortcoming in the sale. But having said that, I dont know 
how the cost and benefits were actually explained to them in the meeting. So as Ive decided 
they chose to have PPI and that it was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think that 
having more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put them off from 
taking out the policy.
It isnt clear if all the exclusions were brought to Mr Ps attention  this is another potential 
shortcoming in the sale. But as I think it unlikely he would have claimed for his medical 
condition, I dont think he would have decided not to buy PPI even if hed been given a full 
list of the exclusions. 
Taking everything into account, I think they were aware PPI was optional and they 
consented to buy it. I think it that it was suitable for their circumstances and that they had enough clear information to make a decision about it. So Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman