DRN-2931599
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. He would like an 
explanation and compensation for the time spent chasing them for answers and loses he 
has incurred. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Revolut.
On 9 October 2019 Revolut reviewed Mr As account and blocked it.
Mr A was unhappy the review took too long. He was not able to access his account or 
contact Revolut for several weeks.  Mr A raised a complaint with Revolut. Revolut said they 
were entitled to review the account and wouldnt disclose the reason. 
Mr A said the account being blocked was very inconvenient as he had loaded an amount 
into his account to use on his holidays and he was unable to do so.
Following the review Revolut closed the account. Mr A received notification on 6 February 
2020 that Revolut had closed his account, but he again received no reasons. 
Revolut returned the funds back to source and converted cryptocurrency back into Mr As 
local currency to complete the transaction.
Mr A was unhappy that he lost money because of the low value of the cryptocurrency at the 
time of the conversion. He said he wouldnt have converted it at that time.
Mr A was unhappy with Revoluts responses, so he complained to our service. 
One of the investigators looked into his complaint. He said he didnt think Revolut had done 
anything wrong. The terms and conditions of the account allowed them to review and close 
the account. He said Revolut werent obliged to provide a reason for the review.
Our investigator thought it was up to Revolut what information they requested as part of the 
review. He said no delay had occurred during the review process and the funds were 
returned to source successfully. He also said that Revolut had to convert the cryptocurrency 
in order to close the account as they dont have the means to transfer it outside their 
platform. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigator.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr As account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Revolut have said this is what they were doing 
when they reviewed and blocked Mr As account.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As account with Revolut and Im satisfied 
that Clause 23 of terms and conditions allows Revolut to block an account in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations.
Mr A has said that he wanted to provide Revolut with information during the review which 
may have been useful to them. I appreciate that Mr A was willing to provide information but it 
is up to Revolut to decide what information it may need in order to complete their review, so I 
cant say they have done anything wrong by not asking Mr A to provide information.
Mr A has said that the review took too long. I appreciate Mr A was inconvenienced by the 
review, but Im satisfied that there was an ongoing investigation.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
Ive considered whether Revolut acted fairly in closing Mr As account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Revolut closed Mr As 
account immediately. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that it has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the account as its 
already done. 
Mr A has said he wants to know the reasons why Revolut closed his account. Whilst Mr A 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. Revolut isnt required to 
give him a specific reason. And I can understand Mr As frustration that he hasnt been 
provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, Revolut is under no 
obligation to provide this information to him, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
Revolut have done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information. 
Funds in the account
I understand that Mr A has received the funds that were returned to source. 
Mr A has said he wanted compensation for the loss he incurred when the cryptocurrency 
was exchanged into local currency. Unfortunately, as I have concluded that Revolut were 
entitled to block and close the account I cant fairly say they should compensate Mr A for his 
losses, so I wont be asking them to do anything here.
I appreciate that Mr A has asked to be compensated for the time that he has spent pursuing 
Revolut and the inconvenience of not having access to his money whilst he was away on 
holiday. I can see how this would be frustrating but as I dont think that Revolut have done 
anything wrong here I wont be asking them to pay Mr A compensation.Having reviewed the evidence I am satisfied that Revolut acted fairly when they reviewed 
and closed Mr As account. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman