DRN-2850110
The complaint
Mr W says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. He says he 
would like the balance of his loans reduced to zero. 
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr W between 
September 2013 and January 2014.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 28/09/2013 £360 6 13/01/2014
2 23/11/2013 £100 6 outstanding
3 23/12/2013 £90 6 outstanding
4 10/01/2014 £70 6 outstanding
5 19/01/2014 £220 6 outstanding
In its final response to the complaint Lending Stream thought that it should pay 
compensation for loan 5. Mr W didnt accept this offer. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Lending Stream wasnt acting 
wrongly when it approved loans 1 to 3. But that it shouldnt have approved loans 4 and 5. 
Lending Stream agreed with what our adjudicator said.  
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that he still felt that all of the loans 
were unaffordable and so there shouldnt be an outstanding balance on them. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr W and Lending Stream dont now disagree that loans 4 and 5 were irresponsibly lent. 
And Ive also seen no disagreement about the proposed method of compensation for these 
loans. So, I wont comment further about loans 4 and 5, save to say I think the proposed 
compensation is reasonable for them. For completeness Ive included this in my putting 
things right section below. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr W provided when he completed his loan 
applications. Mr W said he had a monthly income of £1,200 and he had regular monthly 
outgoings of £250. These loans were for relatively modest amounts and taken over six 
months. Because of this, the overall repayments werent high. So, it would have been 
reasonable for Lending Stream to think that loans 1 to 3 were affordable for Mr W based on 
the information he declared. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information it obtained for these first three loans.
So, overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for these 
loans were proportionate and I think Lending Streams decisions to lend loans 1 to 3 were 
reasonable and Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about them. 
I can see Mr W feels very strongly about this issue and I dont doubt that my decision will not 
be what he wanted. But I hope he finds my explanation helpful. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream shouldnt have given (which it accepts) Mr W loans 4 and 5.
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream is not able to buy the debts back 
then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W having 
made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr W. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman