DRN-1225964
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in October 2001 when she took out a store card.
What happened
Mrs R took out a store card in October 2001. The PPI policy was sold in connection with 
this store card. The policy cost £1.50 per £100 and wouldve paid out 15% of the 
outstanding monthly balance if Mrs R was off work sick or lost her job. It also provided 
life cover, purchase and price protection.
AXA says Mrs R paid total PPI premiums of £6.71. It says the policy was optional and 
Mrs R chose to buy it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that the costs and benefits of the 
policy hadnt been made clear to Mrs R. And that if they had been, Mrs R wouldnt have 
taken the policy out because it wasnt good value for money in her circumstances.
AXA didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case. Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint for the same reasons as set out by 
our adjudicator.
AXA had to give Mrs R clear, fair and non-misleading information about the policy so that 
she could make a proper choice about whether to buy the policy.
Ive seen a copy of the application form. This is the point at which Mrs R shouldve been 
given clear information about the costs. But I cant see from this form that she wouldve been 
made aware at all in real terms how much the policy was going to cost her. There were no 
examples of what this would mean for her in practical terms. And there was no mention of 
whether she would have to pay premiums during a claim or how interest would be charged 
on the premiums if there was an outstanding balance. So I dont think Mrs R was made 
aware of the true costs of the policy.
I appreciate the benefit of the policy was relatively high. But so was the cost. And given what 
Mrs R has told us about the benefits she wouldve received from her employer if she wasnt 
working and the savings she says she had, I dont think she wouldve thought that the policy 
was good value for money for her in her circumstances. So I think that if shed been given 
clear information about the true costs of the policy she wouldnt have taken the policy out.It follows that I uphold this complaint and Ive set out below the compensation that AXA 
should pay Mrs R. AXA can deduct the value of any successful claim from the amount it 
owes Mrs R.
Putting things right
I dont know if the store card is still open or if it has been closed. So Ive set out the 
compensation that would need to be paid out in either scenario.
If the account has been closed:
AXA should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove the PPI premiums 
added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove 
any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest 
added to those charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs R 
owed when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI. If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
A. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
A. If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs R wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
D. AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the account is still open:
AXA should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs R would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those 
charges. AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owes and what 
she would have owed. If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA 
can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs R would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs R wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint against AXA France IARD and require it to pay Mrs R 
compensation, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman