DRN-4116406
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) dealt with a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
AA appointed agents to act on its behalf. AA accepts responsibility for these. And any 
reference to AA also includes these agents.
What happened
Miss B has explained that her car was involved in an accident  and therefore damaged. So, 
she needed to make a claim under her motor insurance policy, with AA being her insurer.
Miss B contacted AA, who accepted the claim, and confirmed they would repair Miss Bs car. 
However, Miss B said the time taken to repair her car, through AAs nominated repairer was 
unreasonable. Miss B said AAs nominated repairer received her car on 27 October 2021. 
And it wasnt until around eight months later, on 14 June 2022, that the repair to her car was 
completed, and she could collect the vehicle.
During this time, Miss B has said AA didnt keep her updated as to the progress of her claim 
and didnt manage her expectations in relation to the repairs. 
Miss B raised her concerns as a formal complaint in early 2022. AA provided a final 
response to Miss Bs complaint in March 2022. In this AA apologised for the delay in Miss 
Bs car being repaired. But it said it was doing everything it could to progress the matter. AA 
said it couldnt identify any failings. It said that there was a nationwide shortage of parts, and 
that staff sickness where this had occurred was unavoidable. AA however apologised for 
long wait time Miss B had experienced when she was on the phone.
In addition to the above, in its final response letter AA said it was satisfied it had supplied 
Miss B with a courtesy car, as per the terms and conditions of her policy.
 
Following this, AA has noted it continued to progress Miss Bs claim. 
As Miss B remained dissatisfied with AAs position on the matter, she referred her complaint 
to this service for an independent review. This services review included considering the 
whole of Miss Bs claim, from October 2022 when the claim was raised, until June 2022, 
when Miss Bs car was collected. This meant the investigation included the period between 
March 2022 and June 2022, after AAs final response letter. AA agrees to this.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld. They felt AA should 
pay £400 compensation to Miss B. Our investigator said this was because AA received Miss 
Bs car to repair in October 2021 but couldnt see any repairs commenced until March 2022. 
Our investigator thought £400 compensation was fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience this delay caused to Miss B.
Miss B agreed with our investigators findings. But AA didnt. It said that between January 
2022 and March 2022 Miss Bs car was undergoing repairs. It said Miss Bs car wasnt 
roadworthy. But they kept her mobile, by providing a courtesy car, in line with the terms and 
conditions of Miss Bs policy. 
AA said it wasnt in control of the timescales for a repair  and if a vehicle repair requires that 
length of time then there isnt anything it could do to influence this. AA said delays are a 
regular thing, and issues such as motor parts availability has been a global issue. So, AA 
didnt think it should be penalised for this  when the situation was outside of its control.
Because AA didnt agree with out investigators outcome, this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, but am intending on requiring AA to 
pay Miss B £200 compensation, rather than £400. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AA 
acted in line with these requirements, when it dealt with Miss Bs claim. 
Its important to note that I can see Miss Bs car went in for repair on 27 October 2022. And 
repairs werent concluded until June 2022  with Miss B being able to collect the car on 14 
June 2022. I acknowledge that this was a long time for Miss Bs car to be in the garage 
being repaired. And I can appreciate the frustration this would have caused. But what I have 
to consider when deciding this case is whether this timeframe was avoidable, or not. And Id 
only hold AA accountable for periods of time where it could have done something differently 
to move the claim forward.
To decide this, Ive reviewed all reports, emails and documentation provided to me, to 
understand what happened during this claim, and when. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
the claim was largely progressed as efficiently as possible.
I can see that following Miss Bs car going into the garage, a report on the damage was 
completed. The report detailed a large number of parts that were needed to return the car 
back to pre-incident condition. This report was provided to AA, who were quick to authorise 
the repairs.
Following this, AA ordered the necessary car parts, as I would have expected it to. Im aware 
it took some time for parts to arrive with AA. AA has explained there is a global shortage of 
car parts. And this impacted the time it took for parts to arrive. I dont hold AA accountable 
for this  it had ordered the parts, and wasnt able to do anything further until these came in. 
It appears parts were delivered to AA in December 2022. So, I dont find AA acted unfairly at 
this stage. This wasnt anything that could be done, until the parts arrived. 
Im also satisfied that AA progressed Miss Bs claim efficiently, between February 2022 and 
June 2022. It completed some repairs on Miss Bs car. In February 2022, when completing 
repairs, it was discovered a subframe was needed. This was authorised and ordered. And 
once the mechanical work was complete, panel repairs were conducted. I understand that 
the estimated completion date for the work changed on a number of occasions. But I cant see that was because of inefficient work by AA. But instead because of the need to obtain 
parts. 
During this time, I can see from copies of email correspondence that Miss B and AA were in 
regular contact as to what was happening. I understand that the estimated completion date 
for the work changed on a number of occasions. But I cant see that was because of 
inefficient work by AA. So, I dont think AA did anything wrong here either.
I do however think there was some avoidable delays on the claim, during December 2021 
when parts came into the garage, and the end of January 2022. And I think AA could have 
better communicated with Miss B during this time, to let her know what was happening. 
I can see that parts arrived at the garage on 1 December 2021. But I cant see any real 
action began to fix Miss Bs car, until late January 2022. So, there was around two months 
where no real progress was made with the claim. 
AA said this was in part because of low staff numbers. And I can see that on 12 January 
2022 Miss B was told there were issues with starting repairs because Miss Bs car needed to 
go on a specific ramp for work to be carried out, but it couldnt, because another car was on 
the ramp, which couldnt be moved, until the parts for that vehicle had come in. 
Nothing further seems to have happened in respect of this, until around 26 January 2022, 
when Miss B is told her car would be sent to another service centre, as it hadnt been 
possible to get it on the ramp yet. 
I think that when AA realised it was low on staff and didnt have the facilities to start fixing 
Miss Bs car (access to the ramp), it could have acted to move the claim more efficiently. I 
think it could have recognised the need to move the matter forward immediately, given the 
length of time Miss B had been without her car  including by sending the car elsewhere 
earlier. I also think it could have been more proactive in updating Miss B and providing her 
with alternative options so that some repairs could have been conducted earlier. 
So, Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, to recognise 
the impact the above avoidable delays above caused to Miss B. And having done so, I think 
£200 is a more fair and reasonable compensation figure. I say this because I think it fairly 
recognises the impact that around two months delay in repairing the car had on Miss B, this 
being the frustration of nothing happening, and the inconvenience in needing to chase the 
matter. So, I intend on requiring AA to pay this to Miss B.
Im also satisfied this is a more reasonable compensation figure than the £400 our 
investigator recommended  because there was some action to progress the claim between 
October 2021 and March 2022, with the only avoidable delays being those I mentioned 
above.
I can see Miss B also raised concerns about the courtesy car she was provided with. So, Ive 
considered this element of the complaint too.
On looking at Miss Bs policy documents, I can see the following is noted in relation to a 
courtesy car:
Additional benefit  Courtesy car
.
In the event you need to make a claim on your policy your AA motor insurer may instruct an 
insurer-approved repairer to carry out the repairs. In most cases, if they do instruct repairs to start, a standard courtesy car will be supplied during the period of repairs. A standard 
courtesy car is a category A vehicle, normally a small 3 door, 1 litre hatchback car.
Its my understanding that Miss B was provided with a courtesy car, in line with the above. I 
do appreciate Miss B has raised that the courtesy car was a manual, rather than automatic 
vehicle. But the above terms dont state the courtesy car would be an automatic. Given that 
AA acted in line with the policy terms by giving Miss B the car it did, for the duration of the 
repairs, I dont find it did anything wrong. And I dont intend on making an award in this 
respect.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and accepted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint, and require AA to pay Miss B £200 
compensation.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) to pay Miss B £200 compensation. I dont 
require it to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman