DRN-1622719
 
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr K and Mrs K bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 2002 to cover a mortgage. 
The mortgage and policy ended in or before November 2006. The policy covered Mr K only 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr K and Mrs K say the broker that sold them the policy told them they must take out 
MPPI otherwise he would not be able to arrange the mortgage. They think the policy 
was mis-sold to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Mrs Ks case.
Bank of Scotland are not sure where the policy was sold. Mr K and Mrs K say it was sold in a 
meeting with a broker. So as Mr K and Mrs K can recall where it was sold, I will proceed that 
the policy was sold in a meeting.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint because of the following reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be 
sure how the policy was presented by an advisor from Bank of Scotland to Mr K and 
Mrs K during the meeting and Ive not been able to see most of the original sales 
documentation (such as the loan agreement or application form). So its been difficult 
for me to consider whether Mr K and Mrs K were given a choice or not as to whether 
they should have the MPPI policy (or whether they were led to believe they had to 
have it).
 
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank of Scotland sold these 
policies around this time. Ive also not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of 
how the meeting at the time of sale. This is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. So, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy 
was sold in the way Mr K and Mrs K say it was. I just havent seen enough to make 
that conclusion. 
 
Moving on, Bank of Scotland has said it recommended the PPI to Mr K and Mrs 
K during the meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I 
will proceed that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr K and 
Mrs K, it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Ks needs 
(as the sole policy holder). 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the PPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr K based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The 
benefit would have been of use to Mr K during a difficult time. Mr K has told our 
service he would have received a very high amount of sick pay (more than 12 
months). So because of this, our service asked for further supporting information. Mr 
M has again said that he would have received a very high benefit from his employer 
but has not provided any supporting information about this such as a sicknes policy 
from the time. So because I am not sure what Mr Ks sickness benefits were at the 
time of sale, on balance, I am persuaded he had a need for this cover for any 
extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason 
such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for him.
 
Bank of Scotland has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI 
policy that Mr K and Mrs K took out but even though it has provided information 
detailing the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were 
disclosed to Mr K and Mrs K in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, 
even if they were disclosed clearly I dont think Mr K and Mrs K would have done 
anything different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have 
already given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr K and Mrs K wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold                
Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman