DRN-3818329
The complaint
Mr S complains about the sale of certain investments to him by an appointed representative 
of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. He said these investments were mis-sold and the risks 
not properly explained, and he has now lost all his money.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr S invested in a number of B&G Plc bonds. This complaint concerns four investments:
Investments of £15,240 and £20,000 in B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield 
IFISA bonds; 
Two investments of £10,000 in B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding High Yield bonds. 
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising and marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call 
BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ss investment in the bond
Mr S invested in these bonds by selling a property following a divorce. He visited BG Ltds 
website in March 2017 as he was looking for a savings product for his money. He contacted 
BG Ltd, had discussions with them over the phone and he was given the information he 
needed to invest  such as where to make cheques payable to and receipt of the certificates. 
Mr S had never invested previously in stocks and shares, and wanted a safe investment that 
he could use when he retired. He said he didnt receive an invitation document. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. 
Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G 
Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr S has not had his invested 
capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr S applied online for each bond purchase. I have seen screen prints of each stage of the 
online application process. These show the application journey that Mr S underwent. This 
consisted of two stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be 
promoted to and on how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. The first was certification, where Mr S was categorised as everyday. The second 
was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him  was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
The website and marketing material was misleading.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. Had 
it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that 
it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and individually, 
it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr S for the loss he 
has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ss complaint
The website and marketing material was not misleading  Mr S was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings 
Regardless of label, Mr S was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude that 
the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr S giving an incorrect declaration, and it 
was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the 
bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardlessWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) 
are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who they could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I note the investigator has set them out in considerable detail and I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr S into certifying himself as belonging 
in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr S fairly or acting in his best interests. 
Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr S, it is unlikely he would have 
certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr S.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for his loss.Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been mis-sold these 
investments
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr S's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr S £350 for the distress caused to him by the loss of his investment; an 
investment he never should've been allowed to invest in.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond 
 BG22080 
(£15,240)Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.  
B&G Plc bond 
 BG22200 
(£20,000)Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants acceptance.
B&G Plc bond 
 BG22770 
(£10,000)Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.
B&G Plc bond 
 BG27230 
(£10,000)Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investments at the end date.
As the investments are illiquid (meaning they could not readily be sold on the open market), 
the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided that Mr S agrees to Gallium 
taking ownership of the investments, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership then it may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investments in future. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid 
out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the 
fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I do not think he wanted to take 
significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman