DRN-3634428
The complaint
Miss H and Mr S complain about Connells Limited in relation to mortgage brokerage 
services. Specifically, they are unhappy that they paid a £499 fee for a lifetime membership 
product, because they say they didnt know that they would need to pay any future 
application fees and thought these were included in this membership. They would like the 
£499 fee to be refunded.
What happened
In 2017 Miss H and Mr S were purchasing a property for which they needed a mortgage and 
they arranged this through Connells. Miss H and Mr S paid two fees to Connells. There was 
a lifetime membership broker fee of £499. This was to cover mortgage advice, assistance 
with completing application forms for the mortgage and any ancillary products (such as 
mortgage- or property-related insurances). There was also a £99 administration fee which 
Connells has explained relates to the additional work required on an application, such as 
collation of documents, liaison with the lender and solicitors, rather than financial advice 
which is covered in the £499 lifetime fee. 
The purchase and mortgage completed in 2017. In 2021 Miss H and Mr S arranged a re-
mortgage through Connells. As theyd already paid the lifetime membership fee of £499 
there was no charge for the mortgage advice, but there was a £99 administrative fee 
payable.
In December 2021 Miss H and Mr S complained to Connells about the lifetime membership. 
They say they were mis-sold it because they understood that they wouldnt need to pay any 
fees in future. And if this had been clearly explained they wouldnt have taken out the initial 
mortgage through Connells.  
Connells didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that Miss H and Mr S had been provided 
with documents outlining the services offered by Connells and the fees involved in 2017. 
Connells said that Miss H and Mr S paid both the lifetime membership and administration 
fees in 2017 so it felt they would have been aware of the fees. However, Connells said it was 
prepared to offer Miss H and Mr S a refund of the administration fee on this one occasion as 
a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss H and Mr S were unhappy with this, so they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and they didnt think it should be upheld. They 
were satisfied the documentation provided in 2017 was clear about the service Miss H and 
Mr S would receive and the payments theyd need to make. The investigator noted Miss H 
and Mr S had been given mortgage advice by Connells, and so they could see no basis on 
which the lifetime fee should be reimbursed and they thought Connells offer to waive the 
£99 application fee was fair in the circumstances.
Miss H and Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. They said Connells had admitted 
that they hadnt specified that a £99 administration fee was applicable on every application in 
the key facts document. They said they also didnt recall ticking any boxes on the 
documentation provided by Connells so a different copy to what was completed may have 
been sent to this service. 
Because Miss H and Mr S didnt agree they asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision on their complaint, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Connells has provided contemporaneous records from its systems, that is, records compiled 
at the time of the events complained of. Im satisfied I can rely on these as being an accurate 
record of what was recorded on its system at the time.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss H and Mr S say they werent given any clear 
information in 2017 about having to pay any fees for future mortgages and they thought the 
main benefit of the lifetime membership scheme was that they wouldnt incur any fees. Ive 
also noted Miss H and Mr Ss concerns about what they claim to be falsified documents, 
namely that the boxes may have been ticked after theyd completed the forms.
After reviewing the file, I think its more likely than not that Miss H and Mr S were given the 
information about the fees. I think its implausible that Miss H and Mr S would have gone 
ahead with the mortgage in 2017 if theyd received no information about the product. 
Connells have provided us an email sent to Miss H and Mr S in February 2017 attaching the 
lifetime membership leaflet which set out the benefits of the product. 
Connells also provided us copies of the leaflet and what information it contained. The leaflet 
sets out that taking lifetime membership will mean Miss H and Mr S wouldnt have to pay a 
broker fee for mortgage advice. It also clearly states that administration fees will still apply on 
all mortgage applications. 
I have also been given a copy of the customer declaration form signed by Miss H and Mr S 
in February 2017. The declaration sets out that Miss H and Mr S have been charged a £499 
lifetime fee and a separate administration fee of £99 which is payable on all cases on 
completion of the mortgage application. On the form Mr S has also signed separately to 
indicate these fees can be charged to his debit/credit card. So I dont think the boxes on this 
form were ticked after Miss H and Mr H had completed it, or that this document was falsified.  
If Miss H and Mr S were unsure of what fees were due I would have expected them to 
question this at the time. 
I note that the key facts document provided to Miss H and Mr S at the time didnt include that 
administration charges would need to be paid on future completed mortgage application, but 
as I said above this information was provided to Miss H and Mr S in other documentation at 
the time so I think they should have been aware of this. 
Miss H and Mr S say that if they knew they would need to pay future administration fees on 
mortgage applications they wouldnt have taken the lifetime product. But this was the only 
mortgage advice product that Connells offered at the time and its likely that they would have 
had to pay a similar fee had they sought mortgage advise elsewhere. So even if Connells 
made it clearer that future administration fees would be due, I dont think Miss H and Mr S would have acted differently on the evidence Ive been provided. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss H and Mr S were hoping for. I dont underestimate 
their strength of feeling but I cant say Connells acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
information provided to them when they took out the lifetime membership. In their recent 
application they werent charged for the mortgage advice and were only asked to pay the 
£99 administration fee which is in line with the terms theyd agreed to.  
I acknowledge that the key facts document didnt contain the information on the fees as it 
should have. But Connells have offered to waive the £99 administration fee Miss H and Mr S 
paid for the recent mortgage application and I think that is fair in the circumstances, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman