DRN-2158978
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him an annuity in 2007.
What happened
Mr S wrote to HSBC in March 2007 asking to transfer two pensions from another 
provider to HSBC. He transferred these into a HSBC Life (UK) Limited Stakeholder 
Pension Plan on 10 July 2007. £6,064.37 was transferred from policy one and 
£1980.29 from policy two. On 11 July 2007, the next day, HSBC received a letter 
from Mr S asking to make a withdrawal from his pension. Mr S was around 50 years 
old at the time.
In response, HSBC sent Mr S a Retirement Options pack, along with the relevant forms to 
complete on 18 July 2007. This followed on from a phone call with Mr S shortly before that. 
HSBCs letter told Mr S his plan value was £8,052.72. HSBC offered Mr S a free retirement 
review. And it told him that if he wanted to go for the Open Market Option (OMO) to 
contact it for the relevant forms. The OMO is where a consumer shops around and finds 
the best annuity deal for them, not necessarily through their current pension provider.
On 3 September 2007, HSBC received the completed Annuity Application pack signed by   
Mr S, dated 14 August 2007. He signed the declaration which read I understand that I 
have the right to have my pension paid by any other insurance company authorised to 
provide pension annuities. I have decided not to exercise this right.
 HSBC said it then had to request a copy of Mr Ss birth certificate, certified by an HSBC 
bank official, to complete the process. This was done and, and HSBC wrote to Mr S to 
confirm receipt of the completed paperwork on 10 September 2007.
In the letter of 10 September 2007 HSBC said the value of the plan at that date was 
£8,112.98. It gave details of the annuity arrangement and Mr Ss right to think over 
your options cancellation form.
The letter asked Mr S to sign and date the enclosed guaranteed annuity Illustration and 
key features document. It asked how he would like the tax-free cash to be paid (cheque 
or bank transfer). Mr S has no record of and does not recall receiving this 
correspondence.
HSBC has provided a copy of the signed Key Features document dated and
signed by Mr S on 11 September 2007.
Tax free cash of £2029.77 was paid to Mr S and the balance £6089.35 went to purchase 
an HSBC annuity. He has received annuity payments from the annuity every six months 
since then.
Mr S complained to HSBC about being mis-sold the annuity. He said, in summary, he wasnt 
told about the OMO or about the cooling off period. He said he didnt receive HSBCs letter 
dated 10 September 2007.  HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. So, Mr S referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint. Mr S informed our investigator that:
the pensions had originally been part of a Pension Mortgage, but when it became 
clear the pension mortgage was not going to reach its target amount, he moved to 
a traditional mortgage product, but the pension remained;
he and his wife had little or no real understanding of pension products at the time;
they did not take advice at the time and relied on the HSBC paperwork; and
they never received notice of the cooling off period and if they had they 
wouldve done something different
The investigator said the 10 September 2007 letter set out Mr Ss right to take his annuity 
through the OMO and informed Mr S of the 30 day cooling off period. Although our 
investigator accepted that Mr S had no recollection of receiving HSBCs letter. He said he 
was unsure how Mr S wouldve authorised HSBC to make payment and to his nominated 
bank account, had he not received this letter. He thought the letter was probably received 
and responded to, to obtain the tax-free cash. 
The investigator said that even if Mr S didnt receive HSBCs letter, he didnt think Mr S 
wouldve done anything different. Mr S said that he wouldve definitely shopped around 
and taken alternative advice from at least their local branch manager, whom they knew 
well.
Our investigator thought it unlikely that an HSBC branch manager wouldve offered advice 
on pensions and instead Mr S wouldve been referred to HSBCs retirement arm, whose 
services had been offered to Mr S free of charge in several of the letters HSBC sent Mr S 
before he decided to take his pension in the way he did. 
Mr S was also concerned that the annuity hed been was sold, had been passed on to 
multiple different providers. Whilst sympathising, in summary, our investigator said that 
many insurance companies had been taken over for financial reasons and he couldnt see 
that Mr S had lost out because of this.  
Mr S also flagged up the new small pots laws introduced allowing consumers to take their 
small pots (under £10,000) as cash. Our investigator pointed out that this legislation was not 
in force at the time Mr S took his annuity in 2007. So, this option wasnt available. And that 
once an annuity is purchased, then the pension pot has been converted to an annuity and 
cannot generally, be refunded or taken as cash.
Taking everything into account, the investigator concluded that as this was a non-advised 
sale of an annuity to Mr S, HSBC didnt have to consider the suitability of the annuity product 
for Mr Ss needs. But, it did have to give him information that was clear and fair so he could 
make an informed choice about buying the annuity. And that as Mr S had acted without 
advice, it wasnt reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for the decisions Mr S made about 
his retirement options and income.
Our investigator thought that HSBC had provided enough clear information for Mr S to 
make an informed choice about whether he wanted to purchase the annuity through HSBC 
or not.Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, he said in summary:
the average rate offered by providers for an annuity in 2007 was 6.80%. The rate on 
his annuity was 4.69%;
he suffered a shortfall of £128.55 annually as a result of HSBCs actions;
the interest rate for the annuity was not stated on the Key Features Document or any 
illustration;
the right to think over your options and cooling off documents and cancellation forms 
were deliberately withheld;
HSBC failed to provide him with the right information at the point of sale; and
HSBC sold him its annuity without making him aware that he could get a higher 
income from other providers if he shopped around.
Mr S also sent in further additional representations saying, in summary:
he was misled as to the annuity rate as average annuity rates in 2007 were 7%;
HSBC rushed him into signing for the only option it put forward, well below the 
average rate, without explaining the option to shop around;
he has no idea who is holding his money. He has been ignored by HSBC for the past 
10 years even though he has banked with it for the past 30 years; 
our service made false and unfair assessments;
he was capable of shopping around and couldve found a much better deal; and
HSBC are still refusing to confirm the interest rate payable on the annuity.
Mr Ss complaint now comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
It is clear here that HSBC didnt provide Mr S with any oral or written advice about his 
pensions options. I can see that HSBC recommended Mr S take up its offer of a free 
pensions review, but Mr S chose not to do so. So, HSBC didnt have to consider whether the 
decisions Mr S made were suitable for his needs and circumstances. That was for Mr S to 
decide.
But, as our investigator explained HSBC did need to give Mr S clear, fair and not misleading 
information so that he could make an informed choice about his pension options. Mr S said 
he relied on HSBCs paperwork from the time to inform his decisions, and that some of this 
paperwork was deliberately not sent to him.
Open Market Option (OMO)
Mr Ss position is that HSBC didnt tell him clearly about the OMO. The way I see it, the 
option of purchasing an annuity through the OMO was mentioned in the Retirement Options 
Pack sent to Mr S on 18 July 2007 from HSBC. It was also made clear in the declaration he 
signed on 14 August 2007. Its possible Mr S was told this in other correspondence too, but 
either way its clear that HSBC told him this on at least two separate occasions. So, I think 
Mr S was clearly told by HSBC, before he opted to purchase a HSBC annuity, that he had 
the option to purchase an annuity through another provider. It was up to Mr S to decide 
whether he wanted to investigate whether these other providers might offer him a higher annuity.
The correspondence Mr S received from HSBC clearly told him the amount of the annuity he 
would receive from HSBC. Had he opted to obtain other quotations, he wouldve been able 
to compare how HSBCs offer compared to others, in the same way that he is retrospectively 
doing so now. 
So, I cant see that HSBC did anything wrong in the way it communicated the OMO to him.
Cooling off period
Mr S also says that HSBC didnt tell him about the cooling off period. He says he didnt get 
HSBCs letter of 10 September 2007 and HSBC deliberately withheld the cancellation forms. 
Like our investigator, I accept that Mr S may not recall having seen, at the time, HSBCs 
letter of 10 September 2007, or the forms that HSBC said came with it. Given the passage of 
time, I wouldnt expect Mr S to remember in detail all the correspondence he received about 
this from many years before.
However, on balance, I think Mr S likely did receive HSBCs letter of 10 September 2007. Ill 
explain why. In the body of the letter it mentioned that included with the letter were the 
following:
An illustration giving an indication of the annuity Mr S might expect;
A Key Features Document, providing details of the annuity arrangement and 
answering some of the question he may have; and
A right to think over your option notice and cancellation form. 
The letter also mentioned the 'cooling off period' or the '30 day period of
reflection' should Mr S wish to cancel. It required Mr S to sign and return the Key
Features Document to accept the annuity purchase. 
HSBC has provided a copy of the signed Key Features Document dated and
signed by Mr S on 11 September 2007. So, this indicates to me that this letter was received 
by Mr S, otherwise he wouldnt have been able to sign and return the Key Features 
Document to HSBC the next day. And I also dont think HSBC wouldve paid out the tax-free 
cash and set up the annuity without this signed authority.
I cant know if the cancellation form was included in the letter. On the basis that Mr S may 
have forgotten receiving the letter, I think it equally possible that he may have forgotten 
receiving the cancellation form amongst the paperwork too. But, even if it was missing, it 
was apparent from the letter itself, that I have found that Mr S likely did receive, that there 
was a cooling off or reflection period. And if the form was missing, it was open to Mr S to ask 
HSBC for a copy of the missing form, because I think it wouldve been apparent from reading 
that letter at the time, that it was missing, if it was.
So, I think HSBC clearly told Mr S about the cooling off period too. So, I dont think he has 
lost out because HSBC didnt tell him about the cooling off period.
Small pension pots
The rules Mr S refers to about being able to take a small pensions pots as tax-free cash 
werent in force at the time he took out his annuity. So, that option wasnt available to him 
then. Having taking an annuity then, that cant be undone now, to allow him to take his 
pensions pot as tax-free cash.So, I dont uphold this aspect of his complaint either.
Annuity provider changes
Mr S is concerned that the business providing his annuity payments keeps changing. I can 
see that this may be frustrating for him when it comes to corresponding with the right 
business. But, I cant see that he has lost out financially because of this. As I understand it 
his twice yearly annuity payments have continued to be paid. So, I cant fairly hold it against 
HSBC that commercially it is no longer responsible for meeting Mr Ss annuity payments. 
If Mr S wants further information about his annuity, then I think it ought to be possible for him 
to contact the business that is paying him these twice yearly annuity payments now.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman