DRN-3311754
The complaint
Mr J and Miss R complain that Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty Mutual) has 
unfairly declined a claim under a defective title and access indemnity policy.
Any reference to Mr J and Miss R, or Liberty Mutual, includes the actions or comments of 
any respective representative or agent unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr J and Miss R purchased a property in 2019. They said the lease plan provided 
was not clear as it was missing a coloured lease plan. So, they requested Liberty 
Mutual provide a policy which covered the issue of where a demise in the lease is 
unclear.
Liberty Mutual says it offered a defective title and access indemnity policy that met 
this need, which was accepted by Mr J and Miss R.
In 2021 the property was sold. The purchasers solicitor questioned part of the lease 
plan related to a small lean to at the rear of the property. A deed of variation was 
produced to resolve this  with the freeholder charging £4,500 alongside legal fees.
Mr J and Miss R made a claim on their Liberty Mutual policy seeking to recover costs 
related to the deed of variation. It declined the claim, saying this event wasnt 
covered by the policy. They complained and the matter was brought to this Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy was specifically 
tailored to Mr J and Miss Rs request  related to a defect in title. And it was for them 
to check if it met their needs. The claim they made did not relate to a defect in title 
which is the event that the policy covered.
Mr J and Miss R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
While a copy of the lease plan was available, Mr J and Miss Rs policy was taken out 
to cover the specific risk associated with the lack of a coloured lease plan. 
Specifically, their professional representative has said they brought this point about 
the coloured lease plan to the attention of Liberty Mutual and asked it to offer a 
policy where the demise in a lease is unclear.
The policys insured risk section which was provided to Mr J and Miss R says:
Title to the Property is defective in that, whilst the Property is registered with 
an absolute leasehold title at the Land Registry and the registered title 
correctly identifies the extent of the Property, the coloured Lease plan, which 
may delineate the demise, is missing.
Im satisfied this cover meets the request made by Mr J and Miss R that relates to the 
lack of a coloured lease plan.
Mr J and Miss Rs representative has said their understanding of the policy would 
also provide cover in the event of the extent or delineation of the property was 
unclear. But this belief simply isnt reflected within the policy wording they received. 
As the policy wording was shared with both Mr J and Miss R and their professional 
representative, its unclear to me why any concerns of this nature werent raised 
earlier if the policy didnt meet their needs, as Im satisfied the policy wording is clear.
Liberty Mutual said the issue identified by the third partys solicitor concerns the plan 
that Mr J and Miss R did hold which the solicitor said was incorrect when compared 
to the extent of the property occupied or registered within the leasehold title.
Liberty Mutual has said the lack of a coloured plan had no impact on the issue as it 
was identifiable from the plan that was already available. Im satisfied this is a fair 
interpretation of the situation, and I agree this is a separate issue to the risk they set 
out to insure.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Liberty Mutual has fairly declined this claim and Im 
not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman