DRN-2965839
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc did not do enough to recover the money he paid to 
an investment scam company. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of events below. 
Around August 2019, Mr P saw an investment opportunity advertised by Gurvin 
Singh of GS3 Trading. 
Gurvin Singh persuaded him to invest with a company called Infinox Capital 
(Infinox). Mr P invested a total of £37,500 between August 2019  October 2019 
with Infinox (£10,500 of these funds were sent to a company called KTAFX.com 
which Mr P believed was an affiliate of Infinox). 
Mr P was initially told by Gurvin Singh that he could withdraw his money at any time 
but was subsequently told that he had to wait a period of 90 days from the opening of 
his account before he could do so. 
Mr Ps trading account was performing well so towards the end of November 2019, 
Mr P made a request to withdraw £46,345.70 from it. This request was 
acknowledged and agreed by Infinox but was subsequently cancelled by them.  
By 24 December 2019 most of the funds in Mr Ps trading account were lost. 
Mr P disputed the transactions to KTAFX.com and Infinox with Santander and 
requested that it process chargebacks for him. He presented Santander with 
information to evidence that Infinox didnt honour his withdrawal requests, that he 
was misled about the investment opportunity and that he was scammed. 
Santander processed chargeback claims for all the disputed transactions and the claims 
were partially successful. KTAFX.com didnt defend Santanders pre-arbitration chargeback 
claims so £10,500 was refunded to Mr P in February 2020. Infinoxs bank defended 
Santanders chargeback claims at its pre-arbitration stage and Santander concluded it had 
very little prospect of success should it escalate the claims to Visas final stage of arbitration, 
so it decided not to. Santander recognised that it didnt provide some of the correct 
chargeback process time limits to Mr P and credited his account with £30 by way of an 
apology. Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators didnt think Mr P met the Visa scheme rule requirements by 
presenting the necessary evidence, so he didnt think Santander should refund the 
remaining disputed amount. Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review his case, so it has 
been passed to me. 
I wrote to Santander to ask why it didnt consider Mr Ps email from Infinox dated 2 
December 2019 relevant. In this email, Infinox acknowledged Mr Ps withdrawal request of 
£46,345.70 and confirmed the funds would be paid to him within five working days. I asked 
why it didnt consider processing a chargeback under the reason code specified for matters 
relating to problems with withdrawals from investment trading accounts. I also explained that 
Visa had confirmed this evidence was sufficient in processing a valid chargeback claim 
under this specific reason code. Santander replied that it didnt think Mr P presented the 
required evidence of this particular reason code and in its past experience, when the 
necessary evidence wasnt provided, Visa would deem the claim invalid at its final stage of 
arbitration. 
Having considered Santanders additional information, I wrote back to them explaining I was 
minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint because I did think he presented the required evidence 
for his claim to have succeeded under this more appropriate reason code.
 
I discussed my provisional outcome with Mr P and he confirmed he accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are 
limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to 
second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the 
regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback claim on behalf of its cardholder.
Mr P is upset because Santander refused to progress his chargeback claims further than it 
did. In my judgment, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably by not escalating Mr Ps 
claims to Visas arbitration stage. But this is because it stood no reasonable prospect of 
success by using what I consider to have been an inappropriate reason code based on the 
evidence supplied by Mr P. I think Santander would have stood a better prospect of success 
had it used a more appropriate reason code.  
Ill begin with my considerations against the Visa chargeback scheme rules. I am mindful 
that the Visa chargeback rules did cover binary-options (or investment) trading from 14 
October 2017, i.e. after the disputed transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 October 
2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process.
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required Santander to present 
evidence that Mr P had an available balance and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or 
less than, his available balances on the same day. However, Visa required evidence in the 
form of a dated screenshot on the day the withdrawal was requested. Visa clarified to this 
service that it would consider a dated acknowledgment from the merchant advising the 
withdrawal request will be processed, and includes the amount of the request, as sufficient 
to support the chargeback for 13.5 and an additional screen shot would not be required if 
this information was presented.  
Santander took the decision to process Mr Ps chargeback claims under reason code 13.3 
(services not as described). For claims under this reason code to have succeeded at Visas 
final stage of arbitration, Santander would have needed to provide evidence that Infinox made written representations to Mr P guaranteeing an amount of profit/return he was due to 
receive. Its clear this evidence was not available.
We know that KTAFX.com didnt defend Santanders chargeback claims at Visas pre-
arbitration stage, so Mr Ps claims succeeded on this basis. But when Infinoxs bank 
defended the chargeback claims under reason code 13.3, Santander was correct to 
conclude that it didnt have any prospect of success at arbitration.
 
However, Im satisfied Mr P presented Santander with sufficient evidence for a claim under 
reason code 13.5 to have likely succeeded at Visas final stage of arbitration. This reason 
code covered scenarios where merchants placed obstacles in the way of cardholders 
withdrawing their available balances. This was the crux of Mr Ps complaint about Infinox to 
Santander. And so, when Mr P provided Santander with an email dated 2 December 2019 
from Infinox acknowledging his withdrawal request (for the available balances in his trading 
account totalling £46,345.70) and confirming the funds would be paid within five working 
days, Santander ought to have processed Mr Ps chargeback claims under reason code 
13.5, not 13.3.  
I dont dispute that Santander tried to assist Mr P given his claim that he fell victim to an 
investment scam. But Santander are the experts when it comes to chargeback, not Mr P. If 
Santander were unsure of the most appropriate reason code to use given the information 
provided by Mr P, it could have taken advice from Visa directly, I dont see that it did. 
I think if it had presented Mr Ps chargeback claims to Infinoxs bank differently and under a 
more appropriate reason code, these claims, on balance, would have succeeded. And its 
unlikely that Infinox could have defended the claims when it had agreed to honour Mr Ps 
withdrawal request in writing. In any event, Santander would have had the option to take the 
claims to Visas final stage of arbitration, because it had the necessary evidence to do so. 
Its now too late for Santander to process chargeback claims under a more appropriate 
reason code, not least because it can only use one reason code to process chargeback 
claims and it used what I consider to have been the wrong one. In my view, Santanders 
decision significantly impacted Mr Ps prospect of success in recovering his money.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require 
Santander UK Plc to refund Mr Ps remaining disputed transactions paid to Infinox (totalling 
£27,000).
The funds originated from Mr Ps savings account, so Santander should add interest to that 
sum (less any tax properly deductible) at the interest rate of the savings pot (account) the 
funds originated from, from the date it declined the chargeback claims to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman