DRN-2812934
The complaint
Mr P complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank Plc when he was tricked into transferring 
money because of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In August 2018 Mr P was contacted over the phone by a merchant  Ill refer to as A - after 
he was making general enquiries on the internet about investments. Further calls with A took 
place shortly after and Mr P was provided with a forty-page booklet and told that the start-up 
investment was £50,000. Mr P then made three payments made up of £5,000 on 21 August 
2018 via debit card to a different merchant  Ill refer to as B - £25,000 on 22 August 2018 to 
a new payee online which was a legitimate trading company (Ill refer to as C), and a further 
£20,000 on 23 August 2018 also online to C.  
When A asked Mr P for a further £100,000, he became suspicious and declined to make a 
further payment. After the call was ended Mr P could no longer access the website or his 
investment portfolio. Mr P attempted to contact A but it either didnt answer or wasnt 
available. 
Mr P did some further research into A and became convinced he had been scammed. He 
contacted Lloyds to raise the scam. Following a review, Mr P was refunded the £5,000 debit 
card payment. But the faster payments totalling £45,000 had already been withdrawn by the 
scammers from C so couldnt be refunded. But Lloyds did pay Mr P £250 for the delay it 
caused when attempting to claim the money back for him. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He said Lloyds shouldve been 
concerned about the two transactions Mr P made as they were out of character, to a new 
payee, made within a day of each other and the combined amount used over 58% of Mr Ps 
balance. The investigator added that had Lloyds intervened in the first payment to C then the 
scam wouldve been stopped as this type of scam wouldve been well known. Mr P wouldve 
then carried out additional research on the broker which wouldve led him to online reports 
that A was operating fraudulently. And the investigator didnt think Mr P acted unreasonably 
in all the circumstances due to the sophistication of the scam. 
The investigator said that Lloyds offer of £250 for the delays it caused when trying to 
recover Mr Ps money was fair in the circumstances. 
Lloyds disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said Mr Ps statements 
showed hed previously made a large debit card payment of £50,000 in June 2017, a faster 
payment of £40,000 in July 2017 and a further large debit card payment of £45,000 in 
February 2018. As these payments were larger than the payments Mr P made to C it didnt 
consider the payments to be unusual, so it wasnt flagged as suspicious. And that the 
second payment was made to the same payee so that wasnt flagged as suspicious either. 
Lloyds also referred to a court ruling where it was decided there is limited scope to argue 
that it has a duty of care to prevent the consequences of payments that are authorised by a 
customer. Lloyds said that Mr P had mentioned in his correspondence that Lloyds had 
previously told him to double check any investments he made but that Mr P doesnt seem to 
have done that here. It added that Mr P failed to carry out the required due diligence in 
relation to these transactions so it shouldnt be held liable for the funds Mr P has lost. 
I contacted Lloyds and asked it to provide further information in relation to whether the debit 
card payment shouldve flagged as unusual at the time and whether B was known to it when 
Mr P was making the transactions. And that if B was known to Lloyds then it should refund 
Mr P the full £45,000 with 8% interest. I added that I was minded to consider that Lloyds 
shouldve flagged the second payment Mr P made to C (£20,000) and that this should be 
refunded with 8% interest if it wasnt aware of B at the time of this scam. 
Lloyds didnt agree. It said it was legally required under the Payment Services Regulations 
2009 (PSR) to honour the debit card payment Mr P made and it wasnt legally obliged to 
refund the payment unless Mr P didnt authorise the transaction. It added that this services 
approach to Authorised Push Payments (APP) couldnt be applied to a debit card payment, 
so it wasnt fair that this service was asking it to refund the payment Mr P made to B. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator but for different 
reasons.  
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
As Mr P has been refunded the £5,000 and Lloyds hasnt responded to my questions about 
the merchant code on the debit card transaction to B, Ive considered whether the payments 
Mr P made here shouldve been flagged by Lloyds and if they had, whether a warning about 
this common type of scam wouldve made a difference. 
Ive previously told Lloyds that the sale of binary options was banned by The European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in July 2018 which was more than a month prior to 
Mr Ps debit card payment on 21 August 2018. Lloyds hasnt responded directly to my 
questions about whether the information presented to process the debit card transaction 
shouldve flagged the first payment of this scam to Lloyds. 
I note what Lloyds has said that a debit card transaction is treated differently to APPs.  Ive 
considered Lloyds point that its legally obliged to honour the debit card payment and that its 
not fair to ask it to refund it. To be clear, Im not asking Lloyds to refund the payment Mr P 
made to B  thats already been refunded. And although debit card payments arent 
considered an APP that doesnt mean Lloyds cant hold a transaction that is unusual or 
suspicious until it had spoken to Mr P about it and asked some probing questions on why he 
wanted to make it. 
So, in the absence of any further evidence from Lloyds in relation to who the debit card 
payment was being paid to, I need to make a decision - on balance  as to whether this 
payment to a well-known scam company shouldve made Lloyds hold the payment and ask more questions of Mr P. And if it had, whether that wouldve made a difference to Mr Ps 
later transactions to C. 
Having considered all the evidence both sides have provided, Im satisfied the debit card 
payment shouldve flagged to Lloyds as potentially suspicious. The payment was to a well-
known merchant involved in binary options scams which had recently been banned by 
ESMA. So, Im satisfied Lloyds shouldve been aware of the payment being potentially 
suspicious and shouldve flagged this and spoken to Mr P about it. So, Ive gone on to 
consider whether Lloyds speaking to Mr P about this payment and providing a warning about 
these types of scams wouldve made a difference here. 
When speaking to Mr P, Id expect Lloyds to give him a clear warning about the types of 
scams it sees and to ask probing questions about the payment and why he was making it. 
Im satisfied that Mr P wouldve been upfront about how he was contacted by A (over the 
phone). And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr P was being coached by the 
scammers on what to say to the bank for the payment to be sent. 
At the time of the debit card payment, Mr P thought he was making a payment to A. But the 
payment was to B. Firstly, that wouldve been seen as suspicious to Lloyds quite quickly 
because that it is a potential warning sign of a common binary options scam. Another 
common type of scam is to tell the consumer to make various payments over several days to 
different companies. Here, Mr P was asked to make three payments over three consecutive 
days. And if Lloyds had asked him when he made the £5,000 payment whether he had been 
asked to pay more money to the scammers, Mr P wouldve more than likely told his bank he 
was planning on making a further payment of £25,000 to C the next day. So, given the 
circumstances, Im satisfied a conversation with Lloyds about binary options scams and what 
A had told Mr P to do here wouldve caused some concern to Mr P given that he had made 
some investments before. This wouldve more than likely led him to conduct further research 
into A which in turn wouldve led him to the online reviews warning people about the scam. 
Lloyds has said that Mr Ps previous investment experience and that it had told him to check 
his investments before going ahead means he should take some responsibility for the scam.  
Ive considered whether Mr P acted reasonably when making the payments to the scammers 
here. I believe Mr P fell for a sophisticated scam where he had various telephone calls with 
the scammers, and they provided a 40-page booklet to him about the investment, the scam 
companies finances and its address which convinced him he was dealing with a legitimate 
company. So, I can understand how a reasonable person - including Mr P who had 
experience in investing before - wouldve fallen for this scam in the circumstances. 
So, Lloyds shouldve flagged the payment to B and, if it had, Im satisfied this wouldve more 
than likely stopped the scam. As a result, I dont need to consider whether the two 
subsequent transactions Mr P made shouldve been flagged by Lloyds. 
Lloyds offered Mr P £250 for the way it handled this matter. And for similar reasons given by 
the investigator, I think thats a reasonable offer in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I believe Lloyds shouldve done more here to stop the transactions Mr P made towards this 
scam. And if they had, Im satisfied its more likely than not the money wouldnt have been 
lost. 
So, I believe Lloyds should pay Mr P £45,000 and add 8% simple interest per year to this 
sum from the date the money was sent to the scammer to the date of settlement. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc must do the following;
Pay Mr P £45,000 with 8% simple interest per year added to this amount from the 
date Mr P sent the money to the date of the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman