DRN-1896414
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home buildings and 
contents insurance with St Andrews Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs As insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2002. By 2008 it cost £304 for 
the year. That year, Mr and Mrs A made claim for flood damage at their home. 
The next year, 2009, Mr and Mrs As insurance cost £433. 
In 2018, the policy cost £1,404. Mr and Mrs A spoke to some other insurers but found they 
either wouldnt cover them or would charge more. Mr and Mrs A were busy and assumed 
that the next year, ten years after the flood, and with the introduction of the FloodRe 
scheme, their premiums would reduce. 
In 2019, the renewal quote was for £2,721. Mr and Mrs A were shocked by the increase and 
were concerned about being able to afford the policy. They were also worried that they may 
not be able to sell their house if it cost so much to insure. Having spoken to St Andrews and 
asked about the Flood Re scheme, they were told they werent covered by it. Mr and Mrs A 
werent satisfied with St Andrews explanation of the increase or what it said about Flood Re, 
so made a complaint. 
St Andrews took longer than the eight weeks allowed to respond to the complaint. In the 
meantime, Mr and Mrs A did some research and were able to obtain a quote from another 
insurer for about £800. That insurer was able use the Flood Re scheme in order to keep the 
premiums down.
When St Andrews responded to the complaint, it explained that it had set the premiums in 
accordance with the risk it was insuring. And that when it had checked with Flood Re it had 
been told that Mr and Mrs As property could not be covered by the scheme. However, 
because St Andrews had taken longer than eight weeks to respond to the complaint, it paid 
Mr and Mrs A compensation of £75 in recognition of the inconvenience this caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr and 
Mrs A fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews hasnt treated Mr and Mrs A fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what St Andrews has offered is 
fair. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, it should have taken care to make sure it treated these consumers fairly  and that 
it didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their premiums just 
because they didnt engage with the cost. 
In this case it appears that Mr and Mrs A didnt engage with the cost of the policy prior to 
2016. They did so again in 2018 and 2019. So, Ive thought about whether St Andrews took 
advantage of this to increase the price before 2016. 
St Andrews has provided information about how it set the price of Mr and Mrs As policy. 
This information is commercially sensitive, so I cant share with them. But I have carefully 
considered that information, and Im satisfied that the changes in price were mainly down to 
changes in St Andrews view of the risk (especially the flood risk in later years), the likelihood 
of future claims, changes in the cover and increases in insurance premium tax.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this. But in this case, that led to significant 
increases after 2014, when St Andrews reviewed how it priced flood risk. From 2015 
onwards, St Andrews thought it had to charge much more in order to cover the risk of 
insuring Mr and Mrs As property. And because of that it began increasing their premiums to 
get closer to that price. 
In 2017, the FloodRe scheme came into effect. This was intended to allow insurers to pass 
the risk of flood claims to the scheme, with the intention of reducing the cost of insurance for 
customers. The FloodRe scheme had certain eligibility rules. Im satisfied that St Andrews 
checked if it could pass the flood risk to the scheme each year, but FloodRe said it could not. 
Mr and Mrs A think this is wrong, as their property shouldve been eligible for the scheme, 
and their new insurer was able to use it to help keep their premiums down.
St Andrews investigated this further after Mr and Mrs A complained. And Im satisfied that 
the issue here was with FloodRe, not with St Andrews. It seems there were problems with 
the data FloodRe used to check eligibility, so FloodRe was unable to confirm that Mr and 
Mrs As property was eligible. 
Its not clear whether St Andrews shouldve done more to try and investigate this with 
FloodRe prior to inviting renewal of the policy. But I dont think it would make any difference 
to the outcome of this case. This is because St Andrews has provided evidence of what it 
would have charged if it had been able to pass the flood risk to the scheme. And it still 
wouldve wanted to charge much more than Mr and Mrs A actually paid. So, I think Mr and 
Mrs As premiums would still have increased by the same amount, as St Andrews sought to 
increase the price to what it felt it needed to charge. 
Mr and Mrs A were able to get insurance for much less elsewhere. So, I can understand why 
they would think they were being overcharged by St Andrews. But insurers often include 
discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means that a new customer will often be 
paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. And insurance policies are 
not all the same  they have different levels of cover, excesses and differing terms and 
conditions that can affect the price charged. And each insurers costs may vary depending 
on many things, including the makeup and geographical spread of the customers it is 
insuring. So, just because the policy with St Andrews cost a lot more than their new policy  
that doesnt mean the amount charged was unfair.Having considered everything in this case, Im not persuaded that St Andrews treated Mr 
and Mrs A unfairly when setting the price of their policy. St Andrews view of the risk of 
insuring the property changed over time, and what it charged reflected this. I dont think St 
Andrews was just increasing the price because Mr and Mrs A didnt engage with the cost of 
the policy.
However, St Andrews took longer than the usual eight weeks to respond to the complaint. 
This was due to its enquiries with FloodRe taking a long time. But St Andrews has offered 
£75 compensation in recognition of this, which I think is fair. So, Im not going to ask St 
Andrews to do any more than that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman