DRN-2044244
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) continued to collect 
premiums after her income protection cover had expired.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
L&G says it wrote to Mrs C on two occasions to ask her what she wanted to do after 
her cover ended, but it didnt receive a response (Mrs C says she didnt receive these 
letters). It therefore continued to collect her premiums until Mrs C advised it in August 
2019 that she didnt want the savings plan.
Whilst I can understand why L&G continued to collect Mrs Cs premiums when it 
didnt receive a response from her, the policy document doesnt say the savings plan 
will automatically continue after the income protection cover ends. 
Also, L&G led Mrs C to believe the policy would terminate when she reached age 55, 
and didnt advise her that her plan would become a savings plan when she contacted 
it in 2017. 
As the investigator has explained, when a business has done something wrong, the 
aim of this service is to require it to place a consumer in the position they would have 
been in, if the error hadnt happened. Here, L&G has refunded Mrs Cs premiums 
collected after her income protection cover ended, and added interest at 8%. Thats 
what this service would have required it to do, and so Im satisfied that L&G has put 
the matter right.
L&G also offered to pay £10 to cover the cost of Mrs Cs phone calls and postage 
costs. I think that was reasonable, and if Mrs C wants to accept that, she should 
contact L&G directly. I dont think L&G needs to pay Mrs C any further compensation, 
as I dont think its error caused her any particular distress and/or inconvenience. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied that L&G has put the 
matter right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman