DRN-3719256
The complaint
Miss S has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S contacted QIC to make a claim for storm damage to her roof. QIC arranged for a 
surveyor to visit, who decided that the storm was the main cause of the damage. The 
surveyor offered Miss S a cash settlement for the damage. However, Miss S didnt want to 
accept the amount offered, as she didnt know whether it was enough to cover the cost of 
her paying someone to do the work.
A few months later. QICs in-house team reviewed the claim and declined it. When Miss S 
complained, QIC said although there were storm conditions, it wasnt the direct cause of the 
damage. It said the underlying cause for the hip tiles dislodging was that the bedding mortar 
had broken down over time. The roof tiles had started to lift due to the fixing methods and 
wind directions regularly imposed on the roof. The conservatory roof wasnt covered 
because Miss S didnt have additional accidental damage cover.
When Miss S complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. He said it was fair to rely 
on the first surveyors findings because he had seen the damage. QIC was only reviewing it 
based on the photos. However, he said it was fair for QIC to settle the claim based on the 
cash settlement offered by the surveyor, as the quotes Miss S had provided were for more 
than the damage caused by the storm, so included betterment. He also said QIC should pay 
£150 compensation because of the delays during the claim.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at weather reports from around the time of the damage and these showed 
windspeeds of up to 75mph, which are hurricane force winds. A storm could also cause 
damage to a roof, such as dislodging tiles. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is 
yes.
So, Ive thought about the main cause of the damage. Looking at the surveyors report, this 
found a storm to be the cause of the damage and said there werent any pre-existing or on-
going building defects.
When QICs in-house surveyors reviewed the claim, they identified issues with the roof. For 
the hip tiles, they said the mortar had broken down due to the cyclical exposure to the 
elements and the resulting freeze/ thaw effect. QIC also told this service that a further 
review identified that nothing has been ripped from the roof. If this was the case, we would 
expect the mortar to leave the roof and remain attached to the tile, which is not the case 
here. Ive also looked at the surveyors report, which said hip tiles have detached from the 
rear left hand hip, and impacted with a single twinwall polycarbonate roof sheet to the 
conservatory. The report doesnt make any comment on the condition of the mortar, but I 
can see in the photos that the mortar has remained attached to the roof.
QIC also said the damage to the roof tiles wasnt the result of the storm. It said: 
the fibre cement roof slates are starting to lift in places due to the fixing methods used and 
wind directions imposed on the roof on a regular basis. This is a common 
design/maintenance issue with roofing styles and systems and creates an effect called 
chattering.
QIC also told this service that online images of the roof from 2020, about 18 months before 
the storm, showed there were already slipped tiles at that time. Ive looked at the online 
images. These only show the front view of the house. However, they seem to show some 
lifted tiles, including in the same places where the tiles appear to be lifted in the surveyors 
photos. So, I think this indicated there were pre-existing issues with the roof. The policy 
didnt provide cover for gradual damage or wear and tear. So, I currently think its fair for QIC 
to decline the claim on the basis that the damage to the roof was due to pre-existing issues, 
which were highlighted by the storm.
So, this also means I currently think it was reasonable for QIC to decline the claim for the 
conservatory roof as, according to the surveyor, this was caused by a falling hip tile, which 
wasnt storm damage. Miss S didnt have additional accidental damage cover under the 
policy and there wasnt any other relevant cover under the policy.
However, Im also aware Miss S was originally told the claim was covered and she was 
offered a cash settlement on that basis. It was only a few months later that Miss S was told 
the claim wouldnt be covered. So, I think there is a clear loss of expectation here. However, 
I havent currently seen anything that shows QIC acknowledged this, including through 
paying some compensation. So, unless I see evidence that shows QIC has already 
appropriately addressed this issue, I currently intend to say that QIC should pay Miss S £150 
compensation because of the change to the decision about the claim being covered and the 
amount of time it took to tell Miss S this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 November 2022.
QIC replied and agreed with my decision. It said it would make arrangements to pay the 
compensation.
Miss S didnt agree with my decision. She said it left her out of pocket with only the potential 
of £150 compensation. She said the surveyor had offered her £2,500, which she had 
declined. The surveyor and our investigator had also both agreed on the wind speed and the 
damage, but this had now been overturned again.Miss S said she was unaware of the 2020 photo evidence but the ridge tiles were in place 
prior to the storm and the damage to the rear roof and the conservatory were caused by 
those tiles coming off during the storm. It was also Miss Ss understanding that the front tiles 
had subsequently lifted during the winds. After the ridge tiles had come off, she inspected 
the rest of the roof and noticed the front tiles had lifted, which she presumed was from the 
same storm.
Miss S said that at no point had she been offered compensation. She said if there was any 
way to reconsider the outcome she would appreciate it as £150 for inconvenience wasnt 
enough. She said she had suffered a huge amount of stress and anxiety over many months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive read Miss Ss response to my provisional decision and, although 
Im aware this will be a disappointment to her, this doesnt change my view on how this 
complaint should be resolved.
It isnt in dispute that there were storm force windspeeds around the time of the damage. 
Damage happening during a storm doesnt always mean it was the main cause of the 
damage. Storms can also highlight pre-existing issues which, from what Ive seen in this 
case, seems to be what happened here. Where that is the case an insurer can apply an 
exclusion for things like wear and tear or poor workmanship that means it doesnt need to 
settle the claim, which is what QIC did. Having considered all the evidence, I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about the compensation, including Miss S explaining the stress and anxiety 
she has suffered. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that £150 is an appropriate 
amount of compensation to reflect the impact on Miss S for the loss of expectation caused 
by QIC accepting and then declining the claim.
Putting things right
QIC should pay Miss S £150 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss S a total of £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman