DRN-2814255
The complaint
Mr O complains Allianz Insurance Plc, trading as Pet Plan, have relied on an exclusion in his 
pet insurance policy he knew nothing about to turn down his claim unfairly. 
What happened
Mr Os pet insurance policy started on 31 July 2018  and then renewed each year. On 
14 October 2020 Mr Os pet required emergency treatment at the vets. Unfortunately, Mr Os 
pet had to be put to sleep. Mr O was then told his claim had been turned down, and when 
asking Allianz why he was told it was because of an exemption that had been added to his 
policy when he took it out.
Mr O said he knew nothing about this as he didnt receive any renewal documents, so he 
complained and asked for the decision not to pay the claim to be overturned.
Allianz replied to the complaint and said Mr O had told them his pet suffered from urinary 
problems and had been on specialist food for many years. They said because of this an 
exclusion was placed on Mr Os policy for urinary system disorders  and said this was 
confirmed in the documents sent to him by post on 2 August 2018, and every year 
afterwards. Allianz said theyd reviewed matters but having done so found the claim had 
been correctly turned down due to the exclusion and pointed to the relevant policy term that 
said this as well. And, in a later response to Mr O, said his claim would still have been turned 
down based on the medical history of his pet.
Mr O asked Allianz to prove hed told them this by providing a copy of the application where 
hed said this  and felt theyd been deceptive when they couldnt provide the application. He 
was also unhappy with the time itd taken Allianz to reply to his complaint. Unhappy with 
these delays, Mr O asked us to look into things, saying itd been nearly 40 days since he 
asked for the application evidence and itd still not been received.
One of our investigators considered things. She found that Allianz had correctly turned down 
the claim because of the medical history of Mr Os pet which showed urinary disorders. So, 
Allianz had applied the exclusion fairly  but, even if that wasnt applicable, the policy also 
excluded pre-existing conditions which the treatment on 14 October 2020 would be classed 
as.
Mr O didnt accept this. He said Allianz couldnt provide evidence of his disclosure of 
previous urinary problems. So if its not written down then it didnt happen as far as hes 
concerned. He felt Allianz were being deceptive repeatedly citing this disclosure when they 
couldnt prove it  and only on their final email tried to backtrack by talking about the medical 
history. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly say how sorry I am for the situation Mr O found himself in on 14 October 
2020. Its clear from the emails hes provided his pet meant an awful lot to him.
I do though need to be clear that I can only uphold this complaint, and require Allianz to 
meet his claim, if Im satisfied theyve acted incorrectly. 
Has the claim been turned down fairly
Allianz originally turned down the claim because of the exclusion placed on Mr Os policy. I 
agree with Mr Os wider thoughts here in that its frustrating Allianz cant provide a copy of 
Mr Os original application form. Ive seen no reason to doubt Allianzs explanation they no 
longer have a copy of this application, in the same way Ive seen no reason to doubt Mr Os 
comments he never declared this.
So, in the absence of anything to determine exactly why and how the exclusion was placed 
on Mr Os policy, Ive looked at the medical history. This is important because if it shows 
Mr Os pet has had a history of urinary issues, then regardless of any exclusions placed on 
the policy it wouldnt be covered. I say that because the policy includes a term regarding pre-
existing conditions, which is defined as these are any injuries that happened, or any 
illnesses that showed clinical signs, before your cover started.
Ive looked at the medical history, and it does show on a number of occasions Mr Os pet 
was treated for urinary related issues. And, at one point, she was diagnosed with haematuria 
which is blood in the urine. So, overall then Im satisfied Mr Os pet was suffering from 
conditions which Allianz would have classed as pre-existing. This means theyve acted fairly 
in turning down the claim.
In addition, Ive seen Allianzs underwriting guide. I cant share it as its commercially 
sensitive. But it shows that if an exclusion hadnt already been placed on the policy, then 
they would have done so once theyd seen Mr Os pets medical history.
Not sending the policy documents
I realise Mr Os frustration and concern about finding out his claim wasnt covered. But, as I 
think theyve fairly turned it down, I dont require Allianz to do anything further here.
Time taken to reply to Mr Os complaint
I note our investigator has explained financial businesses such as Allianz have eight weeks 
to reply to complaints. This is set down by the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority  
and isnt a regulated activity for the purposes of the rules Im required to consider. So, if he 
has concerns regarding this, he may wish to speak to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman