DRN-2028213
The complaint
Mr D complains in his capacity as a director of a limited company O about DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds (DAS) decision to remove cover from Os claim for 
legal expenses insurance (LEI). He is also unhappy with the level of service he received and 
that hes been asked for further information in relation to a professional negligence claim.
Where I refer to DAS, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr D  rather than O. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.  
Mr D was in dispute with Os landlord. He sought the assistance of his LEI policy which is 
provided by DAS. There have been previous complaints which have already been 
considered by our service. This complaint is about DAS decision to withdraw funding from 
the claim and the service provided since August 2019 when the preceding complaint was 
resolved.
Following on from the previous complaint, a barristers opinion was sought as to the 
prospects of success of Mr Ds intended legal action. As a result of this, several parts of a 
potential claim were considered not to have the required prospects of success. Other 
aspects were thought to have positive prospects. There was also reference made to an offer 
that had been made by the landlord. 
Ultimately, DAS declined to provide any further funding towards the claim. They primarily 
sought to rely on part of the policy which explained they can do this, if the insured person 
refuses to accept a reasonable offer.
Mr D complained and DAS responded. In summary they accepted the service theyd 
provided could have been better, and they offered Mr D £300 to compensate for this. But 
they maintained that funding had been fairly withdrawn from the claim. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
concluded that DAS decision on the claim was fair in the circumstances. She also felt the 
compensation offered for any service issues was fair. As he disagrees, Mr D has asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds policy says the prospects that the insured person will recover losses or 
damages(or obtain any other legal remedy that we have agreed to) must be at least 
51%. This is a very common term in this type of insurance and I dont think it is inherently 
unfair. Litigation can be expense and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue 
legal action where they were advised they were unlikely to win. So, I dont think an insurer 
should have to either. 
DAS themselves arent legal experts, so I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim  unless that advice is so obviously wrong 
that a layperson could identify the error. 
Following on from the previous complaint, a barristers opinion was sought. This concluded 
that:
O had reasonable prospects of establishing that the challenged elements of the service 
charge are not properly recoverable from [O] by the landlord.
O had reasonable prospects of succeeding in a claim against the Landlord for either the 
return of stock, or the value of the same.
So I dont think its unfair that DAS declined cover for any other aspects that didnt meet the 
requirement with regard to prospects of success. I dont think the barristers opinion was 
obviously wrong and I think it was fair for DAS to rely on it.
Mr Ds policy also says if an insured person does not accept a reasonable offer to settle a 
claim, we may refuse to pay further costs and expenses. This again is a common term in 
this type of insurance, and again I dont think it is inherently unfair. There are risks attached 
to any litigation, and if a reasonable offer is rejected, I dont think its unreasonable for an 
insurer to decline further funding. 
There is a further policy exclusion which states there is no cover for: Legal action an insured 
person takes which we or the appointed representative have not agreed to, or where the 
insured person does anything that hinders us or the appointed representative.
Again, I think these are fair terms. DAS are setting out that only legal action they have 
agreed to is covered by the policy. And also, importantly, that if the insured person does 
anything that hinders DAS or the appointed representative, then there likewise wont be 
cover.
Here, DAS say theyve relied on qualified legal advice that the offer ought to have been 
accepted to evidence that the offer made was reasonable. A legal professional will be well 
placed to assess whether or not an offer is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The dispute between O and their landlord had many factors to it. Ive considered the 
barristers opinion from August 2019. This makes clear that an offer was made by the other 
side to return Os stock in return for a payment towards the outstanding rent. It also 
comments that O accepted that around £5,700 was owed by them in rent. Part of the advice 
said: In my opinion, regardless of prospects of success, I suggest that [O] and my 
instructing solicitor resume discussion with the Landlord about the return of stock. The 
Landlord was clearly in my opinion willing to return the stock, albeit subject to conditions, 
and I suggest that negotiations are again pursued in this regard as, if the stock is returned to 
[O], this will amongst other things, narrow the issues that remain in dispute between the 
parties.
Further to this the barrister recommended that given the complexities and the number of 
issues involved, a further in person conference might be of benefit. I understand that this 
was later arranged and took place between Mr D, his solicitor and the barrister. An email dated 1 October 2019 from Mr Ds solicitor to DAS says of the barrister He did advise in the 
conference, as I have done before, to accept the other sides offer
I contacted DAS informally and asked them for further evidence. Mr D too has had sight of 
the email I sent. In broad summary I explained that I wanted to know what legal advice Mr D 
had received around the time the offer from the other side was made. If Mr D had been 
advised by his solicitor to reject the offer and to make a counter-offer (as he did), then it 
probably wouldnt be fair for DAS to withdraw cover as a result of the barristers opinion from 
several months later (when the barrister concluded the offer ought to have been accepted). 
Ive been provided with several emails in relation to this and Im grateful to both Mr D and 
DAS for facilitating this. The offer was made in an email to Mr Ds solicitor on 15 March 
2019, the other side said the offer was made without prejudice and would remain open for 
seven days. Mr Ds solicitor said in an email If they sell the stock you have lost your biggest 
bargaining chipyou will have failed to mitigate your lossThis could have a dramatic effect 
on the claim It remains to be seen if they follow through on the threat. But if you let them 
do it then you will dramatically and adversely affect your case. 
Mr Ds response to this included I am not interested in any offer until I get the answers I 
want. The reply from his solicitor said I think you are making a bad decision, but ultimately 
my job is to advise you and yours is to make the decisions!
A further email from the solicitor to Mr D in June 2019 (when there were further discussions 
around acceptance of an offer) said I do think there is a very real risk that if you let the stock 
go for next to nothing, which is what you will in effect be doing if you dont take it back, that 
the case that is left will not be strong enough to get insurer funding I think from our many 
conversations you understand my advice though you do not agree with it So on the whole 
I recommend that you take them up on their offer
I think this makes clear that the appointed representatives involved considered that O ought 
to accept the offer made by the other side. I appreciate that Mr D says he has more recently 
tried to engage with the other side to accept the offer, but there has been no response. I 
think that by failing to follow the legal advice (to accept the offer) at the material time, Mr D 
prejudiced DAS position in relation to funding the claim. I think Mr D hindered both DAS and 
the appointed representative by failing to follow the advice. It would now be more difficult to 
pursue the claim because of Mr Ds earlier decisions not to accept the offer, as such I dont 
think its unfair or unreasonable for DAS to refuse further funding.  
Mr D is of course entitled to make that decision, but if he wants to rely on his insurance to 
fund the claim, he is required to co-operate with the legal advice. I think had DAS known the 
full details at the time, its likely they would have intervened and withdrawn cover sooner.
I cant say Mr D had been treated unfairly here. Mr D says that there are numerous aspects 
to his dispute and so it wasnt reasonable to expect him to accept an offer that he disagreed 
with. Ive considered this, but only the elements which met the requirements of the policy 
would be funded by DAS. And I dont think Mr Ds desire to continue with the other aspects 
(that either werent covered or didnt meet the policy requirements) means its unreasonable 
for DAS to keep to the terms of the policy for what they were covering. 
Mr D also pointed out that the terms of appointment require his solicitor to alert DAS if he 
wasnt co-operating. As this didnt happen, he says this is evidence that DAS were happy to 
continue. He also says that the solicitors agreement was with DAS not O. I accept that the 
solicitor would have agreed to DAS terms of appointment. But I dont agree that they were 
acting for DAS. The solicitor was acting for O as their client and the fact that this was being 
funded by DAS under the insurance policy doesnt change this. And I consider the email evidence quoted above to be compelling, if the solicitor was required to report anything to 
DAS and didnt, that isnt something DAS are responsible for. 
Mr D has also said that he wishes to pursue a further claim for professional negligence 
under his policy. DAS say they are yet to receive the information they require to consider 
this. Mr D has to evidence that he has a valid claim under the policy and I dont think its 
unreasonable for DAS to not take further action until theyve been provided with the 
information theyve requested. If Mr D were to provide that, then subject any other policy 
terms and conditions being met, Id expect DAS to give it further consideration. 
As Ive explained above, I can only consider any delays that DAS are responsible for since 
the previous complaint in August 2019. The complainant here is O which as a limited 
company cant feel distress. DAS themselves accept that the service provided wasnt to the 
standard they usually would expect. But I consider the compensation of £300 that DAS have 
been offered to be more than fair in the circumstances for any inconvenience caused.
DAS responded to say they accepted the provisional decision. Mr D asked for some further 
clarity, which Ive already responded to. He also made some further comments which Ill 
address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D asked if Id considered the limit of indemnity of his policy. He believes his dispute could 
be resolved without going over that limit. DAS didnt decline further funding in relation to a 
breach of the limit of indemnity. As such, I dont think the outstanding amount of indemnity is 
strictly relevant here. The limit of indemnity is the maximum available  but the other terms 
and conditions must also be considered and will always be applicable.    
Mr D says it was unreasonable to expect him to accept an offer, without knowing exactly 
what that offer was. He re-iterated that he did try to engage with the other side, but their 
solicitor didnt respond. Ive considered this but it doesnt change my opinion on the outcome 
of this complaint. If Mr D is unhappy with the quality of the legal advice, that is something he 
could take up with his solicitor and isnt something I can comment on. 
I find the emails between Mr D and his solicitor to be persuasive evidence. I also think that if 
Mr D had followed his solicitors advice at the time, its more likely than not that the other 
sides solicitors would have responded. So, I dont think it can be argued that Mr Ds actions 
wouldnt have made a difference.  
The crux of the matter here is that Mr D didnt follow the advice his solicitor provided. 
The policy requires that Mr D doesnt do anything that hinders DAS or the appointed 
representative (his solicitor). I think failing to follow the advice of the solicitor can reasonably 
be considered to have hindered both his solicitor and DAS and prejudiced DAS position in 
relation to the claim. As such, I think the decision to refuse further funding was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman