DRN-2707675
The complaint
After making a successful claim on the group income protection insurance policy Ms R had 
the benefit of, shes unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited stopped paying the 
monthly benefit and took the decision to remove her from the policy.
What happened
Ms R had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through her employer, 
which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work sick for 26 weeks (the 
deferred period). 
Ms R became absent from work towards the end of March 2017 and a claim was made on 
the policy during the deferred period, which was accepted by Aviva. It began to pay the 
monthly benefit with effect of the end of September 2017. 
Aviva reviewed Ms Rs claim. In August 2019, an independent medical expert (IME) was 
instructed to meet with Ms R and report on (amongst other things) whether she was able to 
carry out the substantial and material duties of the role she was doing immediately before 
her absence from work (through sickness). 
The IME is a Consultant in Occupational Medicine and their report dated August 2019 (the 
IMEs first report) concluded that Ms Rs continued absence from work was due to her 
ongoing incapacity. They concluded Ms R was unable to work, predominantly because of 
her psychological/psychiatric problems but also the impact that her physical symptoms were 
having upon her. 
A desktop review of Ms Rs social media activity was then undertaken by Aviva. And in light 
of this, it arranged for surveillance to be carried out on Ms R. She was filmed over five 
consecutive days at the end of October/beginning of November 2019.
Aviva then forwarded the surveillance evidence and social media information to the IME for 
review. And their report dated 6 January 2020 (the IMEs second report) concluded that 
Ms R could at least return to work in her insured occupation working a minimum of 20 to 25 
hours a week initially and returning full time work within three or four weeks of returning to 
the workplace. 
Aviva took the decision to stop paying the claim with immediate effect and removed Ms R 
from the policys cover.
Ms R didnt think this was fair and appealed that decision. She provided further medical 
evidence. Aviva referred that information along with Ms Rs comments to the IME. By way of 
a letter dated 15 April 2020 (the IMEs third report), the IME explained why their opinion 
concerning Ms Rs ability to return to work in her insured occupation remained unchanged. 
As a result, Aviva maintained its position to cease paying the monthly benefit under the 
policy and to remove Ms R from cover. 
Unhappy, Ms R complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint; 
having considered all the evidence she didnt think Avivas decision was unfair or 
unreasonable.  
Ms R disagreed and provided further information. Her complaint has now been passed to me 
to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Ms R to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity and she was able to do that. As Aviva has terminated the claim (and 
removed Ms R from cover), its for Aviva to show, on the balance of probabilities, that Ms R 
no longer met the definition of incapacity. 
The policy terms
Under the policy, Aviva will pay: 
total benefit if immediately before the start of incapacity the member was actively at 
work and following their job role and, after the start of incapacity they are not 
following any other occupation, and the deferred period has finished.
It goes on to say that:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her 
job role as a result of their illness or injury.
Duties are defined as:
The material and substantial duties that:
-are normally required to perform the job role for the policyholder; and
-perform a significant and integral part of the performance of the job role for 
the policyholder; and
-cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by the member or the policyholder.
Duties do not include the journey to and from work.
Job role is defined as:
A members job role with the policyholder at the time incapacity starts.
From the information Ive been given, the role Ms R was carrying out immediately before she 
was unable to work was a sedentary position.
Avivas decision to stop paying the monthly benefit
Ms Rs claim was originally accepted and so Aviva agreed, at that time, she met the 
definition of incapacity as set out in the policy. As Ive said above, as Aviva has terminated 
the claim its for it to show she no longer met that definition. Im not a medical expert. So, Ive 
relied on the evidence available to me when considering this issue. Having done so, Im satisfied Avivas decision to stop making monthly payments under the 
policy is fair and reasonable. I know Ms R will be very unhappy with my decision and nothing 
in my decision should be taken to mean that Ms R hasnt had issues with her health for a 
number of years. But for the reasons Ive set out below, Im satisfied Aviva has been able to 
fairly demonstrate that Ms R no longer met the definition of being incapacitated under the 
policy at the time it took the decision to stop paying the monthly benefit. 
Its reflected in the IMEs first report that Ms R had been diagnosed - and was living - with 
several mental and physical conditions. When answering Avivas question about Ms Rs 
level of functions when carrying out particular day to day activities, the IME said:
Sitting: She informed me that sitting is a problem for her and when I saw her today 
she was relaxing on a sofa supported by cushions and did get up briefly on one 
occasion without any obvious problem.
Standing: With regard to standing, she felt that she could stand for about 10 minutes
Walking: In respect of walking, she does seem to be quite mobile, as stated above.
Driving: She is able to drive her automatic SUV and she has been helped 
considerably to have such a vehicle, but on some days she does not feel able to 
drive.
Lifting and carrying: With regard to lifting and carrying, she is very restricted, and for 
example if she goes shopping, her partner does the carrying.
Social Interaction: She does not have a problem with social interaction.
Hobbies and Holidays: In respect of hobbies and holidays, she does a large amount 
of reading, especially in respect of psychological matters and regarding holidays, her 
trip to New Zealand has been described above.
The IME says that certain physical conditions Ms R lives with have had an impact upon her 
health, but that these alone wouldnt constitute total incapacity in performing her job role. 
The IME goes on to say that however, they would have a serious impact on her functioning. 
I doubt, however, that she could work more than a few hours a week in a carefully designed 
workplace and, if possible, using voice-activated software. 
In terms of her psychological condition, the IME says: these have had a major impact upon 
her life for many years and continue to do so and these alone would make it very difficult to 
return to her insured role 
Ive also reviewed the surveillance footage (and the accompanying surveillance logs), 
commissioned by Aviva, taken over a period of several consecutive days, in 
October/November 2019. Amongst other things this shows Ms R:
standing and walking, unaided, for long periods of time;
riding a stationary exercise bike during exercise classes (whilst sitting and standing);
walking around a shop - and walking to and from shops and the leisure centre;
carrying items in bags including lifting three bags out of her car boot and holding 
them in one arm and over one shoulder. A man comes over to collect a key from her 
but doesnt assist her with the bags;
bending down;actively partaking in a Pilates class including standing on one leg and circling her 
ankle, holding a horizontal and side plank, pulling her legs back whilst laying down, 
circling her legs in the air whilst laying down, holding a bridge position whilst 
elevating one leg at a time and holding a downward dog position.
This footage was sent to the IME and the IMEs second report says:
The level of functional ability displayed in the surveillance footage was certainly not 
consistent with her presentation to me at the examination on 11th July 2019. She was 
far more mobile and physically capable than I had ever imagined to be the case.
The level of activity indicated in the internet reports was also inconsistent with her 
presentation at the examination on 11th July 2019.
Its also reflected in the IMEs second report (when commenting on the surveillance footage) 
that Ms R:
at no time appeared to be anxious or low in mood and gave the appearance of being 
confident in what she was doing. She was also fully mobile and there was absolutely 
no sign of her having any restrictions with movement of her joints and she was also 
observed participating in very strenuous exercises in the gym
In terms of mental health conditions Ms R lives with, the first IME report reflects that Ms R 
has: a complex history of both physical and psychological conditions. She has a long history 
of the latter and this could well be having a significant influence on her physical symptom 
presentation. Today she was really quite emotional and low in mood.
Whereas in the IMEs second report, its reflected:
She also showed no signs of anxiety and depression based on the DVD evidence
Given the conclusion in the IMEs second report that Ms R could at least return to work in 
her insured occupation (initially working reduced hours for three to four weeks), I dont think 
Aviva has unfairly relied upon the IMEs second report to stop paying the monthly benefit. In 
light of the IMEs second report, Im persuaded that Aviva has fairly concluded that Ms R 
was no longer incapacitated as defined by the policy. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all comments made by Ms R including 
what she says about almost four months passing between the date she met with the IME in 
July 2019 and the date of the surveillance footage  and that shed lost around 13kg in 
weight between those two dates. She had been advised to lose weight by her medical team 
and to participate in exercise. Thats supported by letters Ive seen written by medical 
professionals. And, importantly, its also something the IME considered as part of the IMEs 
third report and they still concluded that, in their view, Ms R was able to return to work 
(initially on a part time basis, increasing to full time after three to four weeks). 
Ive also considered what Ms R has said about the same IME being asked to review the 
surveillance footage whereas she considers a different clinical expert shouldve been 
instructed. But I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably by referring the surveillance to the 
IME to consider and report on whether it changes the conclusions given in the IMEs first 
report. Afterall, it was the IME who had met with Ms R in July 2019 and reported that they 
didnt think Ms R was able to work at that time. So, the IME was well placed to consider the 
footage that had been obtained a few months later to see whether it altered their 
conclusions.  Im persuaded by what Aviva has said; that in the circumstances of this case, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Aviva to ask another medical practitioner to comment on whether something changes another professionals opinion  particularly when the other 
professional (the IME in this case) was available to review the evidence and provide further 
opinion.
Ive also taken into account what Ms R says about having good days and bad days. And that 
the surveillance only shows what she was doing over a short period of time. I also note that 
the IME acknowledges in the IMEs third report that the period of surveillance is just a
relatively brief snapshot of her situation. I agree that the surveillance footage only covers a 
five-day period and those days might not be typical of the activities Ms R is consistently able 
to do. The IMEs third report reflects that Ms R had advised them in July 2019 that she did a 
little bit of gym, three or four times per week which consisted of gentle exercise. The IME 
felt that was different to what the surveillance footage showed.
Ive also taken into account the recent letters Ms R has sent me from various medical 
professionals dated earlier in 2020. However, theres not anything written in those letters that 
persuade me that Avivas decision to stop paying the benefit when it did was unreasonable, 
in light of the IMEs second and third reports. 
I also note that the GPs letter 5 February 2020 says its not possible to diagnose mental ill 
health from the snapshot of investigations mentioned in the report. I am very surprised that 
the conclusion from the investigator was one that he did not see any signs of a mood 
disorder, therefore it must not be present. 
And Ive considered that Ms R says she only has a certain amount of energy per day, some 
days more than others and since trying to lose and maintain weight loss, I use my energy at 
the gym to the cost of any house work that may need to be done. And that the IME failed to 
consider the impact of the considerable amount of medication that she takes daily which 
leave her feeling tired with brain fog - especially when waking which takes a considerable 
amount of time to wear off.
The IMEs third report reflects that they dont disagree with Ms R diagnosis and that theyre 
fully aware that fatigue and concentration could change significantly throughout the day, 
and from day to day. However, the IME still concluded, in their view, Ms R was able to 
return to work. And I dont think Aviva has unreasonably relied on the third IMEs report to 
maintain its position to decline the claim. They are independent of the parties and a 
Consultant in Occupational Therapy.
Ms R has said that when the IME met her in July 2019, they said theyd been given very little 
information to work with (regarding the report they had been asked to prepare). However, 
theres nothing in the IMEs three reports which reflect that, and its reflected in the IMEs first 
report the medical information theyd considered as part of the assessment.
Ms R also says that she was never advised by Aviva that it had ceased cover for her. 
However, the policyholder is her employer and the contract of insurance is between her 
employer and Unum. Although she was a beneficiary of the policy, I dont think Aviva acted 
unfairly by communicating its decisions to her employer  as the policyholder. Thats 
commonly what happens when a claim is made under a group income insurance policy, 
where the beneficiary is an employee and the employer is the policyholder. 
Avivas decision to remove Ms R from cover under the policy
The policy says in relation to unfounded claims:If any claim under this policy is in any respect unfounded, then without affecting any 
other legal rights we may have, any benefit paid for that claim will be reclaimed, and 
no further benefit will be paid.
In these circumstances we will have the right to cancel the policy or remove the 
member from cover without refunding any premiums.
Aviva hasnt sought to recover the monthly benefits its paid under the policy for the benefit of 
Ms R. However, it has removed her from cover because its said her claim is unfounded. 
I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably by relying on the surveillance 
information and the conclusions of the IME in the IMEs second and third reports to conclude 
that the claim made on the policy for Ms R was unfounded, particularly for the months 
towards the end of 2019  for which she received a monthly benefit.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman