DRN-4121345
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund cash withdrawals she 
says she did not make.
Mrs B is represented in this complaint by her daughter Ms P.
What happened
Between 4 July 2021 and 8 April 2022 a series of withdrawals were made from Mrs Bs 
NatWest account. Ms P says that Mrs B did not authorise any of these payments
Ms P has third party access to Mrs Bs account, to help her manage her money. In early 
2022 Ms P says she elected to begin receiving notifications about Mrs Bs account to her 
phone. Subsequently, she received notification of a cash withdrawal which she did not think 
Mrs B could have made. Mrs B confirmed she had not made this withdrawal, and that her 
debit card was still safely locked away at her home. Mrs B went on to identify many other 
withdrawals which she said she had not made. So Ms P and Mrs B flagged the disputed 
withdrawals as unauthorised with NatWest. 
NatWest reviewed the disputed withdrawals, but did not agree that there was evidence to 
show they had not been authorised, so it declined to refund them to Mrs B.
Mrs B maintains that she did not make these withdrawals. Ms P has explained that Mrs Bs 
debit card was always kept safe and that nobody else had access to it. She believes that the 
card may have been cloned when Mrs B used it at an ATM. Ms P reported what had 
happened to the police, but they did not locate any CCTV evidence to show who had 
withdrawn the funds and did not then appear to have pursued the case any further.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. She did not think it was likely that Mrs Bs 
card had been cloned, and was satisfied that the withdrawals had been made with Mrs Bs 
legitimate card and PIN. So she did not feel there was evidence to suggest that the 
withdrawals had not been authorised by Mrs B, and therefore did not recommend that 
NatWest refund these withdrawals to Mrs B.
Ms P maintains that Mrs Bs card could have been cloned, and that she did not make the 
withdrawals herself. So as no agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mrs B made the disputed withdrawals herself or 
authorised them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask NatWest to refund 
them. 
I cant say with certainty who carried out the withdrawals. But the key issue I have to 
consider here is whether NatWest can reasonably hold Mrs B responsible for them because 
there is adequate evidence to suggest she authorised them herself or allowed them to be 
made on her behalf. And with the evidence Ive seen, I believe NatWest can. 
I appreciate that Ms P and Mrs B think the card may have been cloned and then used by a 
third party to make the withdrawals. For some background, cloning involves copying the 
account information contained on the magnetic strip on the back of a card and transferring it 
to a (clone) card. That clone is then used by a fraudster to make purchases  usually over 
the phone or internet as they do not require the PIN, which is in the chip embedded in the 
original card. In my experience, there is no real consensus on whether cloning the chip on a 
debit card is possible, let alone widespread. Ms P has referred to an article about a device 
that was found on an ATM Mrs B regularly uses, but that does not appear to have been the 
kind of device that might theoretically be used to clone a card. I consider it to be very unlikely 
that a successful cloning of the chip on Mrs Bs card  which is what would be needed for a 
third party to make cash withdrawals  is the explanation for what happened in Mrs Bs case.
NatWests records show that when the withdrawals were made the embedded card chip was 
read and the correct PIN entered. So I am satisfied whoever made the withdrawals had 
Mrs Bs legitimate card and knew her PIN. Mrs B is adamant that nobody else had access to 
the card and that her PIN was not written down anywhere. So it does not appear that 
anybody other than Mrs B, or someone acting with her permission, could have used her card 
to withdraw these funds.
I also note that the withdrawals were made over an extended period of time and that Mrs B 
was using her card normally in between the disputed withdrawals. So an unauthorised third 
party would have had to repeatedly take Mrs Bs card and then return it without her noticing, 
and with what Ms P and Mrs B have told us about how the card was stored, that does not 
seem to be likely. There are also other indications that there was not third party involvement 
in these withdrawals. For example, the pattern of the withdrawals is not consistent with what 
we would expect from a fraudster  the withdrawals took place over an extended period of 
time, with long gaps between them, and took place at an ATM near to where Mrs B lived. 
There was also no attempt to use the card details to make purchases online or over the 
phone as we might expect, and which would have allowed a fraudster to maximise their 
financial gain. 
I also understand that Mrs Bs online banking was accessed during the period of the 
disputed withdrawals. Ms P says this was by her, either checking her own accounts or 
making payments on behalf of her mother, but that she would not have been aware of what 
the specific balance of the account should be and that she did not look at Mrs Bs statements 
so would not have seen the withdrawals. Ms P also says that Mrs B was no longer receiving 
paper statements as NatWest had cancelled that facility, and so was not aware of the 
transactions taking place on her account. But even with this in mind, Mrs B still had a 
responsibility to monitor her account, and she had access to do so via online banking on 
Ms Ps phone. 
And, in any case, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, on balance, its more likely 
that Mrs Bs genuine card was used to make the withdrawals from her account and that she either made those withdrawals herself or allowed them to be made. So I dont think that 
Mrs B not receiving statements affects my decision on this complaint. 
Given that I do not think these withdrawals were unauthorised, it follows that NatWest is 
entitled to hold Mrs B liable for them, and so I wont be asking NatWest to refund any of the 
withdrawals.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs B, but I hope she will understand the reasons 
for my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman