DRN-1653713
The complaint
 Mrs. C complains that a car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject it.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
-
There is no dispute that a warning light in relation to oil regularly lights up on Mrs. Cs 
car. Vauxhall say this is a characteristic of the car and not a fault but has not been 
able to provide us with any technical evidence to support this.
Vauxhall has also told us the warning light does go back off. Mrs. R has told us she 
has to turn off the ignition to turn the light off. Whichever is the case I think there is 
some inconvenience to Mrs. C
I also agree with our investigators view that a warning lights purpose is exactly that - 
to warn of a problem. I am not sure how Mrs. C would ever know if she had a 
problem with oil or not if the warning light keeps on coming on. I think that would be a 
concern for most consumers
I also agree with our investigators view that potentially this issue could impact on any 
future resale value. And might cause the car to fail its MOT
However, I think the main issue is that I dont believe that Mrs. C would have gone 
ahead with getting this car had she been advised of this issue at the point of sale. For 
this reason, I think its reasonable to allow Mrs. C to reject the car as specified below 
but not to refund any of her payments as she has had use of the car.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Vauxhall Finance plc should :-
Allows Mrs. C to reject the car 
Return Mrs. Cs deposit with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs. C
Pay Mrs. C £150 compensation for the inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman