DRN-3222885
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV presented the 
optional extras on his international medical insurance policy
What happened
In September 2020, Mr C took out an International private medical insurance policy with 
CIGNA to meet the requirements of his visa. He needed to show he was self-sufficient with 
healthcare and so he says he required outpatient cover.
In December 2020, Mr C contacted CIGNA to enquire about the steps he needed to take if 
he was to make a claim on the outpatient cover. He hadnt booked a doctors appointment at 
this time, but was looking to book one in a few days. CIGNA explained he wouldnt be 
covered for this as he hadnt added outpatient cover to his policy  and this was an optional, 
paid for extra.
Mr C raised a complaint about this. He explained that hed relied on the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) to compare policies before purchasing this one. And as the 
International outpatient cover had green ticks next to it, he understood it was part of the 
standard cover. He referred to the Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook and how in 
this the FCA had stipulated that information about optional cover should not be preceded by 
ticks. CIGNA didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr C brought his case to our service, but our investigator didnt make an award to him. She 
agreed that the IPID didnt meet this regulatory standard. But she said that CIGNA had made 
in clear to Mr C on multiple documents and his application that outpatient cover was 
optional. Mr C disagreed with her outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr Cs frustration that the IPID did not conform to regulations. However as our 
investigator has explained to him, we are not the regulator. Our role is to look into individual 
complaints and put things right where something has gone wrong.
Mr C has explained what went wrong and I accept he was given  to a degree  misleading 
information. But I havent seen how this has actually caused him any detriment while he held 
the policy. Weve enquired with him about making a claim, but I havent seen any evidence 
he lost out financially due to his misunderstanding of this policy. I can see Mr C enquired 
with CIGNA about cover before he said he was going to book a GP appointment, but thats 
all he disclosed. And as he took out an annual policy and hasnt shown us he needed to use 
it in this time, I cant see there is anything to put right in terms of claims.
But, even if Mr C had tried to claim, it is also important to state that I also do agree with the 
investigator that the policy documentation received; and the sales process Mr C went 
through, did make it clear outpatient cover was optional. And while I accept, as above, the 
IPID was not presented in the correct way, this did also state outpatient cover was optional. 
Mr C has said he used this document to compare policies, but the word optional is on this 
document above the outpatient cover section and in the same size font as the benefits he 
says he compared. So I dont agree this was written in small print, as hes said, and I do 
think Mr C had multiple opportunities to realise this cover wasnt included as standard.
So even if Mr C had provided evidence he had tried or needed to claim on the outpatient 
element of his cover. I wouldnt consider this was something CIGNA needed to reimburse 
him for.
Mr Cs asked for a return of his premiums and compensation for the resulting distress. But I 
cant agree his premiums should be refunded as these were paid for International medical 
insurance, the main purpose of CIGNA offered this policy  which Mr C did receive full cover 
for. While he didnt receive International outpatient cover, he also hadnt paid for this. Weve 
explained to Mr C our role isnt to punish a business. And it would be punishing CIGNA if we 
instructed it to provide a refund due to regulatory failings in a document, when Mr C received 
the cover he paid for. And Ive not seen evidence of any other losses  which in any event I 
consider Mr C couldve mitigated.
Ive considered the distress Mr M says hes been caused. But I dont agree a compensation 
award is due to for this. As above, while I fully acknowledge the failing, I also think Mr C had 
enough information to understand how the policy worked when he took it out. Hes relied 
heavily on what the FCA said an IPID should and shouldnt say when deciding which policy 
to buy, rather than what the document itself actually says. I completely accept all documents 
should meet regulations, but I cant ignore that CIGNA pointed out in a number of places that 
this cover was an optional extra. And we havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest Mr C did have any visa issues due to the cover he bought. So while I understand 
Mr C was caused some distress when he realised he wasnt covered as expected, I dont 
agree CIGNA needs to make a monetary award to him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman