DRN-1296240
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt properly pursue a chargeback request on his 
behalf.
What happened
On 24 February 2019 Mr N ordered two watches costing around £170 from an online 
shopping company, which Ill refer to as A in this decision. He paid for those items using his 
Lloyds Visa debit card.
Mr N was expecting to receive both watches by 6 March 2019. But he said his order wasnt 
received until 25 March 2019 and he also said the package contained only one watch, which 
wasnt the one hed ordered. 
Mr N said he contacted A on 26 March 2019 to request a refund, but it rejected his request 
the following day. Instead, it told him he would need to contact the retailer directly to request 
a refund. 
Mr N said, despite returning the watch and paying postage and packaging to do so, he didnt 
receive a refund. As he was out of pocket, he contacted Lloyds to ask it to make a 
chargeback request on his behalf. Lloyds said this didnt happen until 14 July 2019 but Mr N 
said he had discussed making a chargeback request with Lloyds before that date.
Lloyds told Mr N it wasnt able to pursue a chargeback claim on his behalf as he hadnt 
raised the dispute within either 120 days of the date of his purchase or the date he received 
his order. But Mr N maintained he had logged his chargeback request within the time limit. 
So he complained to Lloyds that it hadnt properly pursued his claim. He also felt it had 
misled him and unfairly managed his expectations by logging his dispute on 14 July if it was 
already out of time by that date.
When Lloyds investigated Mr Ns complaint it couldnt find any evidence to show that he had 
logged his dispute prior to 14 July 2019. It therefore rejected his complaint and explained it 
felt it was bound by the rules of the chargeback scheme. It disputed Mr Ns comments that it 
had acted unfairly in logging Mr Ns dispute  it said it had done so in efforts to assist him. 
And it said it had acted as soon as hed notified it that he wanted to request a refund. 
Mr N wasnt happy with Lloydss response to his complaint. So he bought his complaint to 
our service. But, while our investigator empathised with Mr N, they didnt uphold his 
complaint. Overall, they didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably and they didnt think it 
needed to do anymore here. But Mr N disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mr N unfairly in 
dealing with his chargeback request, such that it needs to now put things right. And, having 
thought carefully about everything he and Lloyds have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think 
it did. I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand 
the reasons behind my decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr N and Lloyds, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It isnt in dispute that the order Mr N received was defective. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, and the action Mr N took, Im satisfied that he didnt receive the watches he purchased 
on 24 February 2019. 
I can see our investigator explained how the chargeback process works and the time limits 
involved in making a claim. But, Id like to reiterate that information for Mr Ns benefit.
The chargeback process allows consumers to ask their card issuer to reverse payments 
made on their card in certain circumstances  such as where theres a problem with the 
transaction as there was here.  It doesnt guarantee that consumers will get their money 
back - its not a legal right - and individual card issuers have their own rules to say how the 
scheme works.
The card issuer here is Visa and the rules mean that the chargeback request needed to be 
logged within 120 days of either the order date or, if later, the date a customer received their 
order. There is no flexibility within the rules of the scheme, so a chargeback request cant be 
raised outside the time frames allowed by Visa.
With that in mind I have to determine the date Mr N received his order and the date he asked 
Lloyds to log his request for a refund. Im using the date Mr N received his order here, 
instead of the order date itself, because Im satisfied that Mr N wouldnt have known his 
order was defective until it was received.
Delivery date
Mr N maintains that he received his order on 25 March 2019. But Lloyds disputes that.
Mr N told our service that he requested a refund the day after he received his order - namely 
on 26 March 2019. But Ive seen a copy of an email that A sent the merchant that Mr N used 
to purchase the watches which predates that. 
Mr A said that email shows him querying delivery timescales. But I can see the email states 
that Mr N is requesting a refund from the merchant because he only received one watch, 
which wasnt the one he had ordered. This email attaches an email dated 22 March 2019, 
which was sent by A to Mr N on that date in order to keep him updated as to his refund 
request. 
Ive no reason to doubt the date stamp on that email or that it relates to the transaction thats 
the subject of this dispute. And this all persuades me that Mr N must have received his order 
before 22 March. If he hadnt he wouldnt have known his order was defective.Mr N has shown us a screenshot which he says confirms his package from A was delivered 
on 25 March 2019. However, that screenshot doesnt show his order number. And it 
contradicts the email A sent him on 22 March  by which point hed already received his 
order.
Mr N hasnt been unable to provide an explanation to our investigator regarding why he told 
A his order was defective prior to 25 March. This affects the weight Im able to place on the 
screenshot as a result.
Other than the screenshot Mr N showed our investigator, which Ive discounted for the 
reasons above, I havent seen any evidence from Mr N that shows the date he received his 
order from A. I understand that Lloyds wasnt show the screenshot Mr N provided our 
service. It isnt clear why he didnt provide Lloyds with a copy of that screenshot. I think 
he ought to have been aware that Lloyds would need that evidence to pursue his claim. 
In the absence of other evidence from Mr N that shows the date he received his order, I 
dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in treating the delivery date of Mr As order as 6 March 2019 
 as was indicated on the order confirmation email he received from A. It couldnt have used 
any other date as the delivery date here. And, overall, I think it was fair for Lloyds to tell Mr N 
that, under the Visa chargeback rules, a chargeback claim would have to be raised by 4 July 
2019.  
Date the chargeback claim was raised with Lloyds
Mr N told our service he initially raised his chargeback request with Lloyds in May 2019. But 
Lloyds said its first notification that there was a problem with Mr Ns transaction was on 14 
July 2019.
Based on the contact notes Lloyds has provided our service Im persuaded that the first time 
Mr N contacted it to log a chargeback request was on 14 July 2019. I say this because the 
entries Ive seen from that date log the dispute as if its the first notification Lloyds has that 
Mr N experienced a problem. A full history of the purchase and what went wrong is recorded. 
And I think it most likely that if a claim had been raised before 14 July this detail wouldnt be 
recorded on that date. 
I also think that, if Mr N had discussed his dispute with Lloyds before that date, there would 
be an earlier note recording the reasons why Mr N wanted to raise a chargeback. Theres no 
discussion recorded in the contact notes prior to 14 July so Im not persuaded Mr N 
contacted Lloyds about his purchase before that date.
I can see our investigator requested all call recordings between Mr N and Lloyds between 
January and July 2019. Having listened to all calls Lloyds provided our service I can see that 
Mr N regularly contacted Lloyds to raise a number chargeback requests in relation to various 
online purchases hed made. However, the only call where he discusses his disputed 
transition with A that is the subject of this complaint is on 14 July.  
In that call recording the adviser explains to Mr N that shes setting up the chargeback 
request on his behalf. Based on what Mr N tells the adviser I'm persuaded this is the first 
time he's raising concerns about his purchase with A. She provides reference numbers to 
him, which also indicates to me that this is the first date Mr N notified Lloyds that he wanted 
to raise a chargeback request. And, overall, this corroborates the written record that was 
made of the same date.
I can see that Mr N emailed Lloyds evidence to support his chargeback request on 18 July 
2019. These documents were needed in order for Lloyds to initiate the chargeback request. So Im satisfied that, irrespective of when Mr N may have contacted Lloyds, the chargeback 
process couldnt commence until it received his supporting documentation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but, based on the evidence Ive considered, Im satisfied his 
chargeback claim was logged outside the timescales permitted by Visa. It follows that Im 
persuaded Lloyds acted fairly in declining his chargeback request.
The request for documentation from Mr N by Lloyds
Mr N feels it was unfair of Lloyds to log his chargeback request and request information to 
evidence his claim. He argues that this created a legitimate expectation that his claim was 
raised in time and that hed receive a refund. 
I understand what Mr N says here but I dont agree. I say this because if a customer wishes 
to raise a chargeback claim Lloyds will ask them for all relevant documents and evidence to 
support a claim. It would then forward all documentation to Visa to request a refund on the 
customers behalf. 
I this case I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to request the information it asked Mr 
N to provide. Im satisfied it was following its chargeback process. And, as a refund under 
the chargeback process isnt guaranteed, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that 
Lloyds created a legitimate expectation in Mr Ns mind that he would receive a refund.
I do have sympathy for Mr N  he didnt receive the watches he ordered and he returned the 
incorrect watch at his own expense  but the rules of the chargeback scheme are strict. By 
the time he contacted Lloyds to request a refund it was already too late for the chargeback 
request to be made. For the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for 
the delay in Mr N logging his chargeback request. And it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
ask Lloyds to repay the money Mr N lost in those circumstances.
I realise Mr N will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr N 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman