DRN-3158829
The complaint
Mrs M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined storm 
damage claims under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M had a home insurance policy with RSA which provided buildings and contents cover. 
It didnt include accidental damage cover.
In December 2020, Mrs M claimed on her policy because water was coming into an upstairs 
room, possibly because of storm damage to her roof. RSAs surveyor visited and reported 
the roof had been deteriorating over some years and the roof damage was due to natural 
breakdown of materials (or, wear and tear). So the external roof damage and the internal 
water damage from recent rains wasnt the result of a single identifiable storm event. RSA 
declined the claim. 
In February 2021 Mrs M claimed again for broadly similar but more extensive damage, as 
she said thered been a storm. RSAs surveyor visited and reported the damage was wear 
and tear and not consistent with a storm event. And said that while recent rains had entered 
Mrs Ms property through her roof, there was no external storm damage, so Mrs M wasnt 
covered for the internal water damage. RSA again declined the claim.  
Mrs M complained to RSA. She thought it was using wear and tear as an excuse and that its 
two surveyors contradicted each other about the roofs general condition and flashing. Mrs M 
said the first surveyor reported missing roof flashing, but she maintained her property, with 
roof work done in March 2020, and her roof did have flashing. Mrs M suggested that if the 
flashing had been stolen, this would be covered by her policy. She said the policy covered 
water damage to the building structure and that the damage was covered under the policy, 
as it was swift, sudden and didnt accumulate over a number of years. And that RSAs 
surveyor had been unprofessional by sending her three claim outcome letters but with 
amended paragraphs.
RSA didnt change its position. It thought the weather at the time of the claims couldnt be 
considered a storm. It explained that both surveyors said the roof damage was due to wear 
and tear, and that a roof can be in reasonably good condition but still require maintenance.
Unhappy, Mrs M brought her complaint to us. She wanted RSA to accept it wasnt wear and 
tear and pay under one of the policys insured perils of storm, escape of water or theft. 
Mrs M provided evidence of roof work shed had done in 2020 and June 2021. 
Our investigator said RSA was fair to conclude that weather around the time of each claim 
wasnt a storm and decline the claims on that basis. And even if she thought the damage in 
Mrs Ms second claim was caused by a storm - which she didnt - Mrs M hadnt repaired the 
December 2020 damage. Our investigator thought the surveyors werent contradictory, and 
RSA was fair to rely on them and apply the policys wear and tear exclusion. She noted 
Mrs M didnt have accidental damage cover for the internal damage to be considered under. 
Mrs M disagreed, saying RSA hadnt considered hairline cracks in a first floor room. And 
shed not been able to arrange repairs for the December 2020 damage because of poor 
weather and then the coronavirus lockdown. Mrs M provided media articles about the storms 
(Storm Bella and Storm Darcy) she thought had damaged her roof, and said RSA should pay 
her claim based on the everyday meaning of storm. She said the average person wouldnt 
measure things like water flow, and shed seen blown tiles and other damage to her roof. 
And she thought RSA falsely advertised it covered storms. 
Our investigator didnt change their view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ms complaint is that RSA has unfairly declined her claims. So I need to 
consider whether RSA acted fairly here.
Mrs M says the damage shes claimed for was caused by Storm Bella in December 2020 
and Storm Darcy in February 2021, and that RSA falsely advertised it covers storms. Mrs 
Ms policy terms and conditions say it only covers against loss or damage caused by the 
specific perils listed in the policy. One of these is storm, flood. The terms also say the policy 
excludes cover for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens gradually.
The policy terms and conditions dont define storm. But RSAs response to Mrs Ms 
complaint says it considers storm as per the Beaufort Wind Scale however, we 
understand that slight structural damage can occur during winds of 47mph or more. Rain 
alone, will not damage the externals of your property however, we accept that rain of a 
certain intensity (16mm of rainfall an hour) can start to get inside. 
RSA says the weather in Mrs Ms area around those times dont amount to a storm. I can 
see there were named storms in December 2020 and February 2021 which Mrs M has 
provided media articles about. But Ive checked the weather records local to Mrs Ms home 
in the weeks before each claim. They show it was windy, with slightly higher winds around 
the time of the second claim. But the winds werent high enough to reasonably be 
considered storm force. And the rainfalls werent severe enough to be considered as a storm 
in their own right. So Im satisfied RSA was fair to say there werent storm conditions in 
either December 2020 or February 2021.  
I understand Mrs M thinks RSA is unfair to say the roof damage isnt consistent with storm 
damage and was instead caused by wear and tear. She said her roof is well maintained and 
provided evidence of work done to her roof in 2020 including repairing broken slates, 
repointing, sealing flashing and tiles, and cleaning the gutters. But both RSA surveyors 
thought the damage claimed for was due to wear and tear and not storm.
The first surveyor reported there is poor detailing to the lead work to the front skirt and the 
flashing to the side of the chimney breast is missing. There are also broken and slipped 
slates due to like [sic] nail fatigue and this is an ongoing progress [sic] due to age of roof 
suffering from natural material breakdown. Although the recent weather conditions have 
highlighted the problem; the roof has been deteriorating over some years and this is 
unfortunately not something that is covered under your insurance policy.
The second surveyor reported the main roof was in reasonably good condition. But said 
there were slate pieces in the guttering and valley, with evidence of previous repairs to the chimney stack. They said the damage was caused by natural breakdown of materials and 
wasnt consistent with a storm event.
Slipped and missing tiles and internal rainwater damage is the type of damage that could be 
caused by a storm. But RSAs first surveyor explained Mrs Ms tiles had slipped and broken 
because of nail fatigue, and that the roof has been deteriorating over some years. They 
provided reasoning and photographs to support that. RSAs second surveyor also thought 
the damage was caused by wear and tear. So two different surveyors each inspected and 
concluded the roof damage was due to wear and tear and not storm. 
I know Mrs M thinks the two surveyors contradicted each other about the condition of her 
roof, and shes interpreted one surveyor as saying all the roof flashing was missing. The first 
surveyor notes areas of deterioration, including missing flashing to the chimney breast. So 
they arent saying all the flashing is missing, just a specific area of it. And while the second 
surveyor does say the main roof was in reasonably good condition, they highlighted areas of 
concern and said the damage was caused by the natural breakdown of materials. So I cant 
agree the surveyor reports are contradictory, and I note they both arrived at the same 
conclusion. And I think it was fair and reasonable of RSA to rely on the surveyor opinions 
and conclude the damage was caused by wear and tear and not storm.
Even if I thought there were storm conditions at the time of each claim, which Ive said I 
dont, Im satisfied the weather wasnt the main cause of the roof and internal water damage 
but instead only highlighted an existing problem of deterioration. 
Ive taken into consideration what Mrs M said about the maintenance shes had carried out 
on the roof and the evidence shes provided in relation to this. But the evidence of the 2020 
roof work Mrs M has provided doesnt show an extensive refurbishment of the whole roof. So 
although I appreciate Mrs M has had some work done on the roof, its still the case that the 
first surveyor concluded the roof had been deteriorating for some years, with an area of 
missing flashing and fatigue of the nails which attach the slates. 
I acknowledge the reasons why Mrs M didnt get the December 2020 damage repaired 
before she claimed again in February 2021. But I cant fairly say RSA were in any way 
responsible for the difficulties in getting the work done that Mrs M experienced. Whatever 
difficulties she encountered, it remained Mrs Ms responsibility to have work carried out. And 
in this way, it was up to Mrs M to mitigate her losses and ensure steps were taken to repair 
the December 2020 damage, so that the problems with the roof didnt get any worse and 
cause additional losses.  
Mrs M has suggested her claims may be payable under the policy for perils other than storm, 
particularly escape of water and theft. Im satisfied Mrs Ms policy didnt include accidental 
damage cover, so she cant claim for the damage under that. But if Mrs M thinks there is 
evidence of theft or escape of water at her home, she should contact RSA about that in the 
first instance. If shes unhappy with its response then she can raise a new complaint with 
RSA about that. And if shes unhappy with its final response to her complaint, Mrs M may 
refer that new complaint to our service for an impartial investigation. 
While not the crux of her complaint, Mrs M also thought RSAs surveyor was unprofessional 
to send her three similar claim outcome letters but with amended paragraphs. Even if I were 
to accept that RSA had made an error by doing that, Ive not seen that it caused Mrs M any 
detriment and it doesnt change the outcome here.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline 
Mrs Ms claims under the peril of storm. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman