DRN-1676210
The complaint
Mr Y on behalf of his business B, has complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC decision not 
to pay two cheques that were returned not paid.
What happened
In 2019 Mr Y wrote two cheques on behalf of B, which trades as a partnership. Barclays 
wouldnt make payment on cheque 1 as there had been an alteration on the cheque which 
hadnt been signed. In respect of cheque 2, it said the signature differed from the signature it 
had on record. So, it wouldnt make payment on that cheque as well. 
Mr Y thought Barclays should have made more effort to contact him and let him know that 
the cheques werent going to be paid. 
In its responses to Mr Y, Barclays said that its policy was to write to a customer, in 
circumstances where a cheque hadnt been paid. In respect of cheque 2 this had been 
deposited using cheque imaging and only a copy was available not the original. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She explained why she didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly in returning the cheques unpaid. And she didnt think Barclays 
had done anything wrong in the way it had communicated with B.
Mr Y on behalf of B didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for review. I issued my 
provisional decision on 26 June 2020 explaining why I was upholding the complaint in part. 
In response Barclays said in summary that it saw 100,000s of cheques referred and unpaid 
each day. It was unrealistic to expect it to attempt to phone contact with each customer 
before acting.  It would still need to write to customers if contact was unsuccessful.  It treated 
all customers the same and fairly. And it referred to clause 4.12 of its terms and conditions 
which set out that it didnt have to carry out instructions if it wasnt clear, or it didnt think it 
came from a customer. It felt that it had fulfilled clause 4.15 by writing to a customer. And it 
believed it had complied with the terms of the customer agreement and followed the correct 
process in relation to the unpaid cheques.
Mr Y accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to change the opinion I expressed in my provisional 
decision. Ive set out my reasoning below.
I do understand that Mr Y must have found it very frustrating when Barclays wouldnt pay the 
cheques when they were presented for payment. But I need to consider whether Barclays 
did anything wrong by not doing so. I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the first cheque signed by Mr Y on behalf of B together with the specimen 
signature provided by Barclays. It does seem to me that there is a difference in the signature 
on the cheque and the specimen signature. 
I do understand that Mr Y believes that there isnt really any difference in his signature. But I 
can see why Barclays might have had concerns when examining the signature against the 
specimen it held. And as Barclays has said, its terms and conditions for Bs account at 
clause 4.12 does say that it will do all it can to carry out legal instructions. But it doesnt have 
to follow an instruction if its not clear or it doesnt think it came from the account holder. 
Ive also looked at the copy of the second cheque that wasnt paid. And on examination of 
the cheque there does appear to some form of amendment against the word pounds where 
the amount to be paid is written. There also appears to be an amendment against the payee 
name. And that amendment isnt initialled. So, I can understand why Barclays didnt pay the 
cheque as the amendment wasnt initialled. I think the actions it took in respect of both 
cheques was intended to protect Bs account.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was wrong of Barclays to err on the side of 
caution and not pay these two cheques. But I do have concerns about Barclays 
communication with Mr Y. And I dont agree with what it has said in response to my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
It doesnt appear there was any contact from Barclays with Mr Y before it decided not to pay 
the cheques. It says it normally sends notification to a customer by way of a letter if a 
cheque hasnt been paid. And it has said in this case, that it doesnt have the resources to 
call prior to rejecting cheques, which I find a little surprising. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions for Bs account. This says at section 4 on page 12 
that Barclays will take steps to check a customers instructions if there is any doubt that they 
are complete, clear or come from the account holder. 
Barclays questioned the authenticity of the cheques as it wasnt satisfied the signature 
matched the specimen signature it had. And it questioned the other cheque as it believed 
alterations had been made which hadnt been initialled. 
As a result, it seems to me that given it had concerns about the authenticity of the cheques 
and what it is said in the terms and conditions about checking a customers instructions, 
Barclays should in this particular case, have phoned Mr Y to let him know what it was 
intending to do, rather than just sending him a letter to telling him that the cheque hadnt 
been paid. If he had known sooner that there was a problem with the authenticity of the 
cheques, he could have taken steps to remedy the situation and advised the payees.
 
So, although I dont think it was wrong of Barclays not to have paid the cheques for the 
reasons Ive given, I do think it could have communicated better with Mr Y. 
Putting things right
I do think from what Mr Y has described to us, he has suffered distress and inconvenience 
as a result of Barclays not communicating with him as it should have. And having taken 
account of the impact on Mr Y, I consider that £200 is an appropriate sum to compensate for 
the inconvenience and upset caused to Mr Y on behalf of B.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman