DRN-3780350
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc will not turn off the contactless feature on
his debit card.
What happened
Mr A asked NatWest to turn the contactless feature off as he is very worried about the lack
of security and potentially losing up to £100 at a time. NatWest explained he would need to
do this himself via its online banking app.
Mr A does not want to register for online banking as he has security concerns. He says his
two other banks have actioned his request without imposing any conditions or barriers. A TV
programme he watched said all six major banks can change cards to contact only on 
request. This is causing him unnecessary stress. He asks that the bank removes the 
contactless feature on his card and apologise for how it has treated him.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. She said whilst NatWest has said what Mr A wants
is not an option it has not explained why. And its not reasonable the only way for Mr A to
remove the feature is by registering for online banking, something he doesnt want to do.
She concluded NatWest needs do what Mr A asks and also pay him £100 compensation for
the upset and frustration it has caused by not doing this sooner.
NatWest responded saying it has passed control of the contactless feature to its customers 
if Mr A was to visit a branch its staff can help him disable the feature online. It does not have
the technical capability to make the change for him.
Mr A replied expressing his frustration that this was taking so long, and reiterated his points
that other banks have been able to do this - the TV programme clearly said banks could do
this on request and he does not trust online banking. He is desperately concerned.
As an agreement was not reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to
make a decision. I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision (an extract follows and forms part of this final decision) and asked for 
any comments by 21 October 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision
I understand why Mr A wants to remove the contactless feature from his card. And since the
investigator issued her view I have gone back to NatWest to make sure we fully understand
its systems capability in this regard. There is no benefit to Mr A if I instruct the bank to do
something it is just not able to do. And Im afraid that is where we are in this case.
NatWest has confirmed it is unable to switch off the contactless feature for Mr A. It has
apologised that it is unable to do this, but currently the only option is for Mr A to remove the
feature via online banking: it has no way to remove it from its side. As this is the current
systems capability I cannot order NatWest to do what Mr A asks.
And in terms of this current capability, its a commercial decision for NatWest to decide what
services to offer its customers. Its not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to its customers. These
aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
What I can consider is whether NatWest has been fair and reasonable in the manner in
which its policies and procedures are applied in the individual circumstances of Mr As
experience.
It doesnt seem that Mr A has raised any specific concern about his own card being
compromised. Rather, it is the risk of this and he has more general concerns about the
security of contactless cards, and so would prefer not to have one.
The FCA has committed to working with the banking industry to address risks associated
with contactless cards. I do understand why certain media commentary might lead Mr A to
have concerns about their security. But I dont think this means NatWest have done anything
wrong by not being able to switch the feature off on Mr As behalf.
NatWests terms and conditions relating to Mr As account say that they can make changes
to the agreement to reflect changes in the systems, schemes and suppliers they use. In turn,
Mr A is free to cancel his agreement and account should those terms no longer be
acceptable to him. With that in mind, and since NatWest has confirmed it cant offer a
non-contactless card or turn the contactless feature off for its customers, I cant agree that
its unfair to Mr A as its treated him in the same way it would other customers in similar
circumstances.
NatWest has explained the option to disable the contactless facility is available through its
online banking app. And it has offered to provide support within a branch to set up and
access the app should Mr A choose. This would allow Mr A to remove the facility and if he
wanted, he could subsequently cancel the online banking app. This appears a reasonable
and fair solution and I think NatWest has tried to support Mr A as far as it can.
NatWest has also told this service it is working on a technical solution where staff may
be able to assist customers. But this isnt currently available and ultimately, this service cant
insist NatWest changes its processes.
I appreciate Mr A feels very strongly that NatWest should be able to do as he has requested.
But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably
in his case. Its not a facility NatWest currently offers so I cant reasonably ask it to make an
exception for Mr A.
I know this conclusion will be very disappointing for Mr A, but for the reasons set out above I
cannot fairly reach a different decision.
Neither party sent in any comments or new information in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any comments or new information, I have no grounds to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. It follows as I dont find NatWest 
treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably I am not making a compensatory award.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman