DRN-4027736
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) declined to refund him approximately 
£7,750 which he lost as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what happened here. But in summary, in July 2022 Mr B was tricked into sending a 
series of payments totalling approximately £7,750 in the belief that he was making legitimate 
investments. 
In July 2022, Mr B explained he was searching for investment opportunities and came 
across a company who Ill refer to as Company I. His former representative said he looked 
into the company by checking it was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority, reading 
reviews and looking at its profile and website. Mr B was persuaded the company was 
legitimate, and so he clicked on the link and set up an account by providing his details and 
some ID. He was told he had a wealth advisor whom he corresponded with over some time 
and agreed to invest in some bonds. He sent two payments over a few days  the first for 
approximately £215 and the second for approximately £7,540. He said all the communication 
verbally and in writing was very professional and his wealth advisor seemed knowledgeable 
and legitimate.
When Mr B made the second larger payment, it was blocked by Santander but they did not 
get in touch with him. He explained that the person who he thought was his wealth advisor 
told him that Santander were the problem  and pointed him to some negative reviews about 
them online. He told Mr B what to say when he called Santander to make sure the payment 
went through  and Mr B did what he said as he believed he was dealing with a legitimate 
investment company. Mr B said he decided to make a third investment and went to call the 
man he thought was his wealth advisor, but the number flagged up on his tablet as a 
potential scam risk and so he got in touch with Santander to let them know that he thought 
he had fallen victim to a scam, which they confirmed he had. Unfortunately, scammers had 
cloned the website of a legitimate firm and it was to these scammers that Mr B had sent his 
funds. 
Mr B raised the matter with Santander. Santander investigated Mr Bs complaint and offered 
to refund 50% of the second payment. In summary, they didnt think Mr B had established 
that he had met the requisite level of care when he was making the payments. They did 
accept that they had not given an effective warning at the time of the second payment, which 
is why they offered to refund half of it. However, the first payment was for a lower amount 
and so they said they did not identify a risk of Mr B falling victim to a scam  so no such 
warning was required. They also said that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
code) signatory receiving bank confirmed that they were not liable in this case. When 
Santander contacted them there was £10.70 remaining in the receiving account, which was 
returned to Mr B. 
Mr B was unhappy that Santander declined to refund more of his losses so he asked our 
service to investigate his complaint. One of our investigators looked into what had 
happened, and they thought that Santanders offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. They agreed that no effective warning was necessary for the first payment, 
but that one ought to have been given for the second payment. They also did not think Mr B 
had a reasonable basis for believing that the payments he was making were going towards a 
legitimate investment. 
Mr B did not agree, he said he had seen advertisements for Company I when he was at an 
international sporting event  and he assumed if a company could advertise there then they 
were vetted and legitimate, as well as profitable. He also explained the emails and phone 
calls with the scammer were very persuasive. As no agreement could be reached, the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Service 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
The CRM Code 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. It sets out standards that 
banks, such as Santander, are expected to meet in terms of protecting their customers from 
financial harm. But it also sets out expectations that a customer should meet, too. As a 
starting point, a customer should receive a full refund if they fall victim to an authorised push 
payment scam such as this one. 
It is common ground that Mr B was the victim of an authorised push payment scam here. He 
thought he was investing money, but instead it went to a scammer. But, Mr B would not be 
entitled to a full refund if Santander can fairly and reasonably demonstrate, as they have 
asserted, that Mr B has failed to meet the requisite level of care under one of more of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Those exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made; 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests that Mr B did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing that he was dealing with a legitimate financial business. I say this because: 
The FCA had published a warning about Company I being cloned prior to Mr B 
making these transactions. Mr Bs former representative said that he had looked 
them up on the FCA website, and had he done so this would have been visible to him 
at the time. The FCA website also listed legitimate phone numbers he could contact 
to check he was dealing with the legitimate firm  which he did not do here. 
There were some discrepancies between what Mr Bs former representative said and 
what Mr B said to Santander according to their contemporaneous notes. He told 
Santander he had researched just the wealth advisor he thought he was speaking to, 
and had not completed other checks. Searching online about an individual wouldnt represent a sufficient level of checks before sending large payments to a company  
so I would expect further checks to have been done such as those mentioned by Mr 
Bs former representative. And as I outlined above, if he had checked the FCA 
website I would expect him not to have gone ahead with the payments. 
Mr B said that the scammer had coached him on what to say when he spoke to the 
bank, and told him to put a different reason for the payments when he was sending 
them. I think this should have been a red flag that the person he was dealing with 
may not be legitimate, as they were asking him to lie to his bank. A genuine firm 
would not do this. 
There does not appear to be any reason given by the scammers to explain why he is 
sending quite irregular amounts of money, to an account with a name not linked to 
Company I. I think this should have given cause for concern, and without a 
reasonable explanation for why he was being asked to do this, I think it ought to have 
served as another warning that Mr B was not dealing with a legitimate company. 
Mr Bs representatives said that Mr B was vulnerable to this scam due to his age, but 
I do not think his age alone made him unable to protect himself from this scam. He 
also had some investment experience previously, and managed his own finances 
too. 
Whilst some of these factors in and of themselves may not have persuaded Mr B not to 
make the payments, when considered collectively and considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round I think there were sufficient unusual 
factors here that Mr B ought to have acted more cautiously than he did. I am satisfied, 
therefore, that Mr B did not have a reasonable basis for believing he was making a payment 
for a legitimate investment, so Santander are not required to give him a full refund under the 
CRM code. 
Did Mr B ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment being made? 
The code also sets out standards that banks are expected to meet, as I explained above. 
Santander needs to be on the lookout for factors that might indicate an enhanced risk that 
Mr Bs payment instructions were being made as part of a scam. Where they identify such a 
risk, the bank needs to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with an effective 
warning. Santander, in their submissions to this service, explained that the first payment did 
not require any warning to be given  and I agree. I dont consider the first payment of 
approximately £215 was out of the ordinary and therefore I do not think Santander ought to 
have identified a scam risk. I appreciate this was not an inconsequential figure, but it was not 
sufficiently large or unusual such that it ought to have put the bank on notice. And so, I dont 
think Santander needed to provide a warning for this payment. 
The second payment was for a far higher amount  over £7.540  which was unusual and 
out of character when compared to Mr Bs account history. Santander have accepted that 
this payment ought to have triggered an effective warning. They also accept that they failed 
to provide such a warning in the payment process or when they spoke to Mr B about the 
payment. They have recognised that they had the opportunity to prevent the loss, and so 
they cannot rely on this exception to the reimbursement. In the circumstances, Santander 
should be at least in part responsible and so, under the CRM code, it should be liable for 
50% of the losses from the second payment which is what they have paid. 
Should Santander have done more to protect Mr B?
In addition to their responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr B made the payments, 
Santander should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
and out of character transactions or other signs that might indicate that Mr B was at risk of 
fraud or financial harm (amongst other things). I am satisfied that the second payment was unusual and out of character for Mr Bs account, 
as I outlined above. And I dont think this is in dispute as Santander stopped the payment.  
So, I think Santander ought reasonably to have intervened further by getting in touch with Mr 
B to ask him more questions about the payment to satisfy themselves that he was not at risk 
of fraud or financial harm. But Mr B did get in touch with them after the payment didnt go 
through and so they did have a discussion about the payment before it went through. And 
whilst they could potentially have gone further in their questioning, I dont think it would have 
uncovered the scam even if they had. I say this because Mr B picked the wrong payment 
type, and was coached into what to say to Santander when he spoke to them after being 
somewhat poisoned against them by the scammer. 
However, even if I were to conclude that Mr B, against the scammers instructions, were to 
be honest and the scam uncovered, the outcome of this complaint would be the same. I say 
this because whilst the starting position in a case where the bank ought to have noticed 
unusual payments and prevented the loss is that the bank should refund in full, I am still 
required to consider Mr Bs actions. Given what I outlined above  the lack of checks, picking 
the wrong payment option, the FCA warning, the different name of the account he was 
asked to pay into, the scammers instructions about what to do when he spoke to Santander 
 I think it is fair to say that Mr Bs negligence also led to the loss. This means he also would 
have some responsibility for the loss. So, under these rules, my answer would remain that 
Santander ought to refund 50% of the loss for the second payment only. 
Recovery 
I have also considered whether Santander could have done more to try to recover the 
money once they had been told of the scam. I would expect a business to take reasonable 
steps to try and recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Santander did try to recover 
the funds Mr B sent to the receiving bank  and were able to evidence that they had 
contacted the bank within a short amount of time. The receiving bank got in touch to say 
they had secured the remaining funds within two hours of the fraud report. They were able to 
recover £10.70 from the receiving account. So, I dont think Santander could have recovered 
Mr Bs funds here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that what Santander have already paid Mr B is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, and so I do not require them to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman