DRN-3686029
The complaint
Mr I complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with direct debit payments out of his 
account.
What happened
Mr I says over £3,000 was taken from his account via a direct debit to a business I will call 
P. He says the direct debit was not set up correctly at the start and says P didnt forward 
him a direct debit mandate. He also says P didnt notify him 10 days before the direct debit 
was due to be taken. In summary Mr I says Barclays hasnt helped him get his money back 
and complains about how his complaint has been dealt with. He would like the payments 
refunded and compensation.
Barclays says Mr I set up the direct debit in 2019 and it wrote to him confirming it had been 
set up. It says it has no reason to refund the payments under the direct debit guarantee and 
says this is a dispute between Mr I and P. Barclays says it initially refunded the payments, 
but P challenged that decision. It says it cant answer complaints made about P.
Mr I brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought 
Barclays correctly refunded the money whilst investigating and thought it was entitled to re-
debit the money after that investigation. The investigator thought Barclays had written to Mr I 
to tell him the direct debit had been set up and didnt think Barclays had made a mistake.
Mr I doesnt accept that view and says Barclays initially investigated the complaint on the 
basis it was a fraudulent transaction when his complaint was about the direct debit process 
not being followed. He says he was unable to attend a branch due to shielding issues and 
says P hasnt assisted him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr I will be disappointed by my decision and also appreciate he raises complaints 
about how his complaint was dealt with by Barclays. I make clear to Mr I that complaint 
handling is not a regulated matter and so I cant fairly comment on how his complaint was 
dealt with. I appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint.
The direct debit guarantee is designed to protect those using the direct debit scheme and is 
used to protect consumers where, for example, an incorrect amount is taken, or a payment 
is taken on the wrong day. The guarantee is not designed to address contractual disputes.
I have looked carefully at what Mr Is complaint is here. I can see he says it was not a 
fraudulent payment he complains about, but that Barclays has not followed the direct debit 
process. And that P didnt provide him with the mandate or the 10-day notice that payments 
would be taken.
Im satisfied that Barclays wrote to Mr I in 2019 confirming a direct debit had been set up. I 
can see that letter told Mr I to contact Barclays if he didnt recognise the direct debit or if it 
wasnt him that set it up. I think it likely Mr I set up that direct debit having looked at Barclays 
records and can see that Mr I has told us he set up an account with P which is linked to the 
direct debit. Im also satisfied that Barclays fairly refunded the payment when Mr I contacted 
it but was reasonably entitled to re-debit the account when it carried out an investigation and 
spoke to P. I dont think the issues Mr I raised were covered by the direct debit guarantee 
and so he wasnt entitled to keep that refund.
I appreciate Mr I says P didnt forward the direct debit mandate to him and didnt tell him 10 
days in advance, the payment would be taken. I cant see how Barclays would have any 
control over those matters and it cant be responsible for what another business did or didnt 
do. Those are matters Mr I will need to raise with P.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr I set up the direct debit and I have not seen any evidence Barclays 
made a mistake or acted unfairly. I dont think it matters how Barclays initially investigated 
the complaint, as the outcome would have been and was the same. I cant see what else it 
could have done to help Mr I and that the main complaint points here are about a separate 
business namely P. It follows that I cant fairly order that Barclays refund the payments or 
pay compensation as Mr I would like. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman