DRN-3198240
The complaint
Mr A complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
And Mr A complains that he was informed by Shelby that a Direct Debit (DD) was set up but 
he says it was not. Mr A says that Shelby did not even try to take the payments from his 
account and now he has markers on his credit file. 
What happened
Using information from Shelbys records, here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount Repaid
1 29 March 2020 £400 30 September 2020
2 1 October 2020 £400 2 June 2021
Mr A first brought his irresponsible lending complaint to us in March 2021 and at that point 
he had the final response letter (FRL) from Shelby which is dated February 2021. It related 
to the irresponsible lending. Later he received another FRL from Shelby dated May 2021 
about his concern relating to what Mr A felt was Shelbys failure to take payments from his 
account. 
Shelby sent to us the information relating to these loans, and details of payments on the 
loans, the way the payments were made and correspondence between it and Mr A about 
these repayments.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and addressed both parts. He said that he 
did not think that Shelby had lent to Mr A irresponsibly. And having reviewed the 
repayments, he could see that the method of repayment altered for loan 2. 
Our adjudicator explained to Mr A that with the change in his circumstances and his request 
to be given some more time to pay loan 2,  Shelby acceded to that request and made him 
aware future payments would be made by continuous payment authority (CPA). CPA is a 
payment that is requested as a debit card payment and is not a DD.
When Shelby requested these CPA payments, they were declined. As a result, the 
payments were missed, and it had a responsibility to accurately report his account to credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). So, our adjudicator did not think that Shelby had done anything 
wrong in relation to the DD, CPA or CRA. 
Mr A responded to say My issue is that I was told it was a direct debit being set up. I am not
concerned about the interest being refunded what I require is for the marks to be removed 
from my credit file.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As Mr A has not taken issue with the irresponsible lending part of the complaint, then Ive not 
set out much detail on that aspect as it appears Mr A considers that resolved. But for clarity 
I have reviewed the loans Mr A applied for. 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. Shelby was required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have looked at the details relating to Mr As applications and in view of the financial 
information he gave to Shelby when he applied for the loans then I do think that Shelby 
carried out proportionate checks before approving the two loans. Mr A was a new customer 
to them, his loan sums were relatively modest and for relatively short terms. I do not think 
Shelby lent irresponsibly to Mr A for loans 1 and 2. I agree with our adjudicator, I do not 
uphold Mr As complaint about the irresponsible lending.
On the part of the complaint about the manner in which Shelby and Mr A arranged for 
payments to be taken, I can see from the detailed records I have been sent, that for both 
loans DD forms were completed by Mr A. For loan 1 they went through satisfactorily. For 
Loan 2 the first two repayments in 2020 were fine. After that things changed. 
I have seen the correspondence in which, at Mr As request, he was allowed additional time 
to repay loan 2. But the arrangement to pay which was put in place meant that the method of 
payment was different. It would be by CPA which is a method linked with Mr As debit card. 
I have seen from records that Mr A was informed of this and so I do not think that Shelby 
informed him a DD would be set up for the later stages of the loan 2 repayment plan. Some 
of the CPA requests were declined and so its right that Shelby reported these to its CRA. In the circumstances I do not think that Shelby has done anything wrong and I do not uphold 
Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman