DRN-3896957
The complaint
Mr H complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) left a scratch on his windscreen 
when this was replaced under the cover provided by his motor insurance policy. 
References to West Bay include its agents. 
What happened
Mr Hs windscreen was damaged, so he arranged for it to be replaced by West Bays agent 
under his insurance cover. He says he was working away and didnt notice a scratch on the 
windscreen until his return four days later. He contacted West Bay to let it know about the 
scratch. It referred to videos taken pre and post the installation, which it says dont show any 
scratches. 
Mr H took his own videos. He says its isnt always possible to see the scratch dependent on 
how the video is taken. He says the video taken by the installer moves too fast to observe 
the scratch. He says the scratch is slightly curved and to the left-hand side of the steering 
wheel.
Because West Bay didnt agree to replace the damaged windscreen Mr H referred his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He says he can see the 
scratch in the video provided by Mr H. But the post installation video doesnt include a close 
up where the scratch is located. He says the video focuses on the edges of the windscreen, 
and when taken internally again there is no close up of the centre of the windscreen where 
the scratch is located.
Our investigator says the scratch isnt observable in the video provided by Mr H, where the 
camera pans quickly over the affected area. He didnt think West Bay had shown the scratch 
wasnt there at the installation. He also highlights the short period prior to the scratch being 
reported. Our investigator says West Bay should arrange for a replacement windscreen 
without charging a further excess fee or recording another claim. 
West Bay disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive watched the videos Mr H provided carefully. In one video I can see the scratch he has 
described toward the centre of the screen. In the other video, where the camera scans 
across the windscreen more quickly, the scratch isnt observable. 
Ive also watched the videos taken by West Bays agent. As our investigator says the 
camera doesnt focus for very long on the centre of the windscreen where the scratch is 
located. This is the case from both outside the car and when the technician gets into it and 
carries on filming. 
The technician sprays what appears to be glass cleaner over the upper centre part of the 
windscreen externally. This may have obscured the scratch. But having watched Mr Hs 
videos, its clear the scratch cant be clearly observed unless the camera is still and focused 
on it. At no point during the technicians video does this happen. 
I note Mr Hs explanation that he was working away at the time the windscreen was fitted. 
This took place at his place of work and a colleague had his keys to allow access for the 
windscreen technician. Given the short period of time the new windscreen was in place, I 
think its doubtful that the scratch occurred sometime after it was fitted. Particularly as the 
car wasnt being used. I think its more probable that the scratch occurred during fitting or 
was already present on the glass prior to this. 
Having considered all of this I dont think West Bay has treated Mr H fairly. It should arrange 
for the windscreen to be replaced without further charge. This shouldnt be recorded as a 
further claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. West Bay Insurance Plc should:
arrange for Mr Hs windscreen to be replaced, without a further excess charge or 
claim being recorded. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman