DRN-2916890
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund £73,020 
they lost when they were the victims of a scam. 
What happened
What Mr and Mrs H say
Mr H was looking for an investment opportunity. He found company A online and left some 
details. Company A then called Mr H and offered him a bond. Mr H decided to go ahead and 
made the first payment in the table below from a joint account held with Mrs H. Company A 
then approached Mr H again and he agreed to buy a further bond. He made two online 
payments in respect of the second bond on 15 and 16 November 2018, again from his joint 
account with Mrs H. All of the payments are set out in the table below:
Date Amount
06/11/2018 £48,020
15/11/2018 £10,000
16/11/2018 £15,000
Total £73,020
Mr H has told our service of the extensive checks he made about company A prior to 
investing with them. These include:
- Checking the FCA website to confirm that company A was approved. Mr H says the 
site confirmed company A was approved to provide financial services and 
investments and had an FCA number. The business address, email and telephone 
number also matched information Mr H had received from company A. Mr H says his 
FCA check of company A confirmed it was a bona fide company which was regulated 
within the EEC.
- Checking company A on the Companies House website. Mr H says he checked the 
company number, business address and nature of the business. He also saw a 
financial report provided by a leading professional services firm which gave him 
confidence that the company was genuine.
- Online reviews by others but none found.
- The bond prospectus.
- Contact with the RBS Group Investment Division by telephone, to confirm the bond 
prospectus was valid. Mr H says the bond number and the maturity date were 
confirmed. 
It was only when the first bond was due to mature that Mr H realised hed been the victim of 
a scam and the trading name of company A was in fact a clone of a genuine investment 
company. He reported the scam to RBS on 4 February 2020. 
What RBS says
RBS say Mr H willingly made the payments. It contacted the beneficiary banks but has been 
told that no funds remain. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. In summary, she felt that RBS 
should have asked Mr H proportionate questions when he made the £48,020 transfer in 
branch but that even if it had the fraud wouldnt have been uncovered and Mr and Mrs Hs 
losses prevented. She said this because she felt Mr H had completed extensive checks over 
several days before making the transfer, the results of which reassured him he was dealing 
with a legitimate investment company. For example, Mr H said he looked up the name of 
company A (rather than the number) on the FCA register.
So if RBS had asked Mr H some questions about the reason for the payment, how hed 
found out about it and what checks hed done Mr H would have been able to give plausible 
answers that would not have led RBS to believe he was at risk of financial harm. The 
investigator didnt consider the second and third payments to be unusual or suspicious. 
Finally, the investigator found that RBS acted reasonably in trying to recover Mr and Mrs Hs 
funds. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. Mr H asked me to consider the following 
points:
- When he searched the FCA register he only used the name of company A and not 
the number so didnt see a warning about cloned companies. Had he seen the FCA 
warning he wouldnt have gone ahead with the investments. 
- If RBS staff had been properly trained, they would have asked him more searching 
questions and provided better advice about what to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider RBS 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs H have had to contact us in these circumstances - I cant begin to 
imagine the impact of losing such a significant amount of money. I accept theyve been the 
victims of a cruel scam, but I need to decide if RBS did enough to protect them from the loss 
they suffered and what, if anything, ought to be done to put things right. Based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think RBS need to do anything further. I understand that Im delivering a very 
difficult message and Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive carefully considered their 
complaint before reaching this decision. 
Did RBS act fairly and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Hs case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice RBS should have been 
on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether 
the payment requests Mr and Mrs H made were out of character and unusual. 
In respect of the first payment of £48,000 I see that in the year before the transfer there was 
only one transfer for £1,200 and one payment for £6,689.94 from the account. So a payment 
of £48,020 was unusual and out of character and so Id expect RBS to ask Mr H 
proportionate questions about it to satisfy itself he wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
The initial payment was made in branch. Mr H has explained that he wasnt asked about the 
checks hed completed, although he has commented that the RBS manager said they didnt 
know anything about the bond. He has explained that he was simply asked if he was happy 
to proceed. RBS say that as Mr H was making a large payment a customer protection check 
was completed but that due to the passage of time there is no other record of what was 
discussed when the payment was made.
Ive considered the customer protection check form that RBS has provided as well as what 
Mr H has told us. The form shows that questions were asked to identify various different 
scam risks including, 
Is this transaction as a result of a request for funds from someone you have not actually met 
face to face Scammers will befriend you and state they need funds urgently or will pressurise 
you to transfer funds for an investment opportunity a competition win or to secure an 
inheritance windfall.
A negative response is recorded. 
The following is recorded later in the form,
Customer Reason for Transaction and Transaction Notes:
To purchase an investment bond...  [name of investment company]
Initiator Confirmation:
I confirm I have completed due diligence and discussed potential scams and I believe the 
transaction is genuine and have confirmed customer is happy to proceed.So Im satisfied that the reason for the payment was discussed to some extent, and this 
conclusion ties in with Mr Hs recollection of events as he says the bank manager said they 
didnt know about the bond he was transferring funds for. Its not clear though whether more 
detailed questions were asked about the checks Mr H had made before deciding to invest 
joint funds. And although the customer protection check form shows that scam warnings 
were given, I dont know what was said and how specific the warnings given were.
But importantly, even if I were to conclude that RBS ought to have intervened more and 
checked with Mr and Mrs H that they werent at risk of financial harm, Im not persuaded that 
this would have made a difference in the circumstances of this complaint. This is because of 
the extensive checks Mr H made in relation to the authenticity of company A, which I have 
set out above.
Ive considered the kind of questions I think RBS ought to have asked Mr and Mrs H at the 
time the payment was made to company A. I consider RBS should have asked Mr and Mrs 
H how they found out about the investment opportunity, what the investment was and some 
information about it, the rate of return and whether theyd checked the FCA register. Given 
the information Ive been provided with I believe Mr H would have told RBS,
- Hed looked online for an investment opportunity and then received a call from 
company A.
- He was buying a bond through company A.
- It was a fixed rate bond at 5.1% per year for 16 months.
- That hed checked the FCA register and was satisfied that company A was FCA 
registered.
I think that in asking these questions RBS would have done enough to satisfy itself that Mr 
and Mrs H werent at risk of financial harm. But even if RBS had asked further questions the 
answers wouldnt have alerted RBS to believe that anything was wrong. This is because 
there was nothing unusual about the way company A interacted with Mr H. For example,
- Mr H received a genuine looking brochure.
- Mr H was sent a genuine looking contract.
- The correspondence Mr H received from company A looked legitimate and said 
company A was authorised by the FCA.
In addition to these points, cold calls are a common feature of this type of scam, but Mr and 
Mrs H expected a call back from company A. And I dont consider the rate of return was so 
high that RBS would have been concerned in the light of the other information Mr H would 
have provided about company A and the proposed investment. 
Mr H has also said that he called RBS Group Investment Division by telephone to confirm 
the bond details hed been given were correct. RBS say it hasnt been able to find any 
details of the bond, but it seems to me that an RBS bond with the details provided to Mr H 
was issued. Given this point, I find it even more likely that Mr H would have been able to give 
plausible answers to any questions RBS asked about the payment he was making. 
Ive gone on to consider the two further payments made on 15 and 16 November 2018. 
These payments were made from a different account to the first payment. Generally, payments from this account were for lower sums, although Mr and Mrs H had transferred 
£12,500 from it. But Mr and Mrs H had recently made a payment of £48,020 from another 
joint account so these payments for £10,000 and £15,000 dont stand out as being unusual. 
But even if RBS had discussed the payments, I consider the scam wouldnt have been 
uncovered and the payments would still have been made. I say this for the same reasons as 
Ive set out above and because by this stage Mr and Mrs H had already made a payment to 
what they considered to be a legitimate investment company.
I have also considered Mr Hs points about the clone warning the investigator said had been 
on the FCA website from 2016 but Mr H said he didnt see at the time he completed his 
checks. Mr H says he looked up company A by name on the FCA register (rather than by 
number) and this was why he didnt see a clone warning. Ive looked up company A using 
both the trading name in the letters provided to Mr H (which is the name he told this service 
he searched) and using the FCA registration number provided in the letters. The result is the 
same in that a clone warning appears. The current warning says (although I appreciate the 
wording may have been different in 2018): 
Clones of this firm
Individuals are using the details of this firm to suggest they work for the genuine firm. We call 
this a cloned firm and it is typically part of a scam.
To contact the genuine firm you should call the switchboard number listed on the Register - 
and contact us if it is not provided. Find out more about the clone firm(s):
[name of clone firm (clone)
Added to the FS Register on 17 Oct 2016.
This means that at the time Mr H completed his enquiries, and before deciding to invest, the 
clone warning was on the FCA register  as the FCA register confirms a warning was added 
on 17 October 2016. 
Mr H has explained that he also looked up the company name on the FCA website (as well 
as the trading name) and noted it was regulated in the EEC. Ive looked up this company on 
the register and not found a company with the same name, spelling and address. 
Recovery
Finally, Ive considered whether RBS acted promptly and reasonably when the scam was 
reported. Mr H reported the scam on 4 February 2020 and RBS contacted both receiving 
banks on the same day. The bank that received the initial payment of £48,020 confirmed that 
the funds were used up the day after they were received. The bank that received the second 
two payments also confirmed that no funds remained. In the circumstances, I consider RBS 
acted reasonably in attempting to recover Mr and Mrs Hs funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman