DRN-3573418
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received from Capital One (Europe) plc over several 
years. 
What happened
Mr A complained to this service about mis-sold payment protection insurance. Capital One 
made him an offer to settle that complaint, which I understand he accepted. 
Mr A then made a further complaint about the way Capital One had handled his account 
over the years. In summary, he said:
a) Hed had poor service from Capital One for over 25 years. Its representatives were 
bullying and rude to him on the telephone; 
b) Hed had to make international calls to Capital One to chase his PPI complaint, and 
Capital One should reimburse those costs; 
c) Capital One took too long to resolve his PPI complaint; 
d) Contacting Capital One about his complaint affected his work schedule and his 
salary; 
e) Capital One did not tell him it had cancelled his policy in 2000;
f) He closed his account with a settlement figure provided to him by Capital One, but 
the account was not fully closed. 
Capital One offered to pay £100 to Mr A because it had made a typographical error on the 
final response letter in respect of the PPI mis-sale. Mr A did not think that was enough. He 
told Capital One he would not accept less than £200 in that regard. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this. He didnt think we could consider the complaint points 
set out at (a) to (d) above because those matters fell outside the jurisdiction of this service. 
He didnt think the aspects of the complaint we could consider should be upheld. 
Mr A did not agree with our adjudicators view and he wanted an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I have arrived at the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
Ill explain why below. 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. Thats because I have to apply the rules that 
relate to this service. Those rules are set by the Financial Conduct Authohrity (the FCA) 
and are known as the DISP rules. The DISP rules can be found online in the FCAs 
handbook. 
The DISP rules set out the types of complaint I can consider. In order for me to be able to 
consider a complaint, it would have to be about what is known as a regulated activity. This 
requirement is set out in DISP 2.3.1R. 
As our adjudicator said, in this case, the complaint points in respect of (a) to (d) above are 
solely about  the way Capital One handled his complaint. Im sorry to say that complaint 
handling isnt an activity listed under our rules  it is not a regulated activity or something 
else otherwise covered. So, as our adjudicator said, I cant consider those aspects of the 
complaint any further. But I can look at the issues raised at paragraphs (e) and (f) above. 
Cancelling the policy 
Mr A is not happy that Capital One didnt tell him his PPI policy had been cancelled. Capital 
One said that it cancelled the policy in June 2000 when Mr A fell behind with his repayments. 
I can see how it could have been helpful for Capital One to notify Mr A he was no longer 
covered by the policy. However, after the PPI policy was cancelled, the premiums would 
have stopped showing on Mr As statements. So I think hed have reasonably known at that 
point that he didnt have cover. I dont think hed have thought he had PPI cover if he wasnt 
paying any premiums for that insurance policy. 
Repaying the account in full 
Mr A said he thought hed repaid his account in full, and he was surprised when Capital One 
told him some years later that the account had not been fully paid off. 
Capital One provided this service with Mr As account statements. It looks as though he ran 
into some financial difficulties while his account was running because I can see he fell 
behind with some repayments. Mr A made a final payment of £250 to Capital One on 7 June 
2006, but there was still an outstanding balance on the account at that stage. The amount 
outstanding appears to relate to mainly late fees and over limit fees. In any event, Capital 
One seems to have decided not to chase Mr A for that money, even though there is still 
technically an outstanding balance. 
It is possible Capital One didnt tell Mr A about this at the relevant time. But I cant 
reasonably say hes lost out because of this. In any event, I dont think I could reasonably 
expect Capital One to pay Mr A further compensation for that when there appears to be an 
outstanding balance that Capital One isnt asking Mr A to pay back. 
For those reasons, I dont uphold the complaint. However, Capital One will need to pay the 
£100 compensatory payment it offered to Mr A if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman