DRN-3918514
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc applied interest on his credit card balance without 
his knowledge.
What happened
Mr P says he didnt receive his credit card statements during 2021. As a result, he says he 
was unaware that his outstanding balance was accruing interest until he received a letter in 
January 2022. 
Mr P says hed been receiving paper statements until it changed to email statements. But he 
says Sainsburys had emailed the statements to an incorrect email address. When he found 
out that interest was being charged, Mr P says he repaid the balance in full. He raised a 
complaint with Sainsburys, and subsequently raised further concerns about call waiting 
times and being told Sainsburys had tried to call him when it hadnt.
Sainsburys said that interest had been applied in accordance with Mr Ps account terms and 
conditions. And - during 2021, statements had been sent to the most recent email address 
Mr P had provided to it. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in this respect. But it 
agreed that its call waiting times were too long and it accepted it had given Mr P incorrect 
information when it had said it had tried to call him. By way of an apology for the 
inconvenience caused, Sainsburys credited Mr Ps account with £60 compensation.
Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. But he didnt uphold the complaint. He said Sainsburys had 
charged interest in line with the terms and conditions of Mr P account. He also thought it was 
responsibility of the account holder to keep their contact details  including email addresses, 
up to date. In addition, he noted that Mr P had access to his account on-line and Sainsburys 
had sent letters during 2021 which referred to interest being accrued on his account. 
 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he hadnt received any letters prior to the one dated                      
January 2022. He also thought that it was wrong for a business to continue to email a 
consumer at the wrong email address and that it should do more to contact its customers.
As agreement wasnt reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr P will be disappointed as I can see he strongly feels Sainsburys hasnt treated him fairly. 
So, Ill explain why. 
Did Sainsburys apply interest to Mr Ps account correctly 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account which he would have agreed to 
when he applied for the account. Ive also looked at the statements issued during 2020  
which Mr P hasnt disputed receiving. These say we charge interest  On the whole 
balance shown on your statement until you make a payment. After that payment registers on 
your account, you will be charged interest on any balance that remains. And I note Mr P was 
incurring interest on his outstanding balance during 2020. 
Ive gone one to look at Mr Ps 2021 statements, and I can see that he was making the 
required minimum payments, but a balance remained outstanding each month during 2021. 
Based on what Ive seen, I satisfied interest was rightfully due on Mr Ps outstanding credit 
card balance during 2021. And I havent seen anything to make me think that the interest 
was calculated incorrectly. So, I havent found that Sainsburys did anything wrong here. 
Did Sainsburys send statement to an incorrect email address
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that he wasnt aware he was being charged interest in 2021. 
He says this was because he didnt receive his statements during this period.
Sainsburys has provided evidence that Mr Ps account had been paperless since         
June 2018 i.e. statements were sent by email. Mr P hasnt disputed receiving statements 
prior to 2021, so Im persuaded Sainsburys had been sending statements to the right email 
address up to 2021 and Mr P received these statements.
Sainsburys has also provided it records to show that Mr P updated his email address in 
January 2022. Given Mr P says he didnt receive statements in 2021 and he hasnt disputed 
receiving statements from June 2018  end 2020, I think its most likely Mr P didnt change 
his email address until January 2022. 
Like the investigator, Im satisfied it is for the account holder to keep their contact details with 
account providers up to date  and I havent seen anything to suggest Mr P updated his 
email address until January 2022. As Mr P didnt update his contact details with Sainsburys 
until January 2022, I dont find that Sainsburys did anything wrong when it continued to send 
statements to the last known email address it had for Mr P.
Should Sainsburys have done more to contact Mr P
Mr P says Sainsburys should have been aware the emails it was sending during 2021 
werent being received and should have done more to contact him. So, Ive considered this.  
And Ive seen that Sainsburys wrote to Mr P at regular intervals during 2020 and 2021. And 
Im satisfied these letters referred to interest being charged on the account. Mr P says he 
doesnt recall receiving any letters before January 2022. But Ive found the letters were all 
addressed to the same postal address as the letter dated January 2022. While I accept 
some letters go astray in the post, I think its unlikely all the letters would have failed to reach 
the intended address. Overall, I think its most likely Mr P would have received at least some 
of the letters.  
In addition, Ive seen from Mr Ps 2020 statements  which as mentioned above he hasnt 
disputed receiving, he was being charged interest on his outstanding balance. And at the 
end of 2020, the statements show Mr P still had an outstanding balance. And Ive not seen 
anything to make me think Sainsbury agreed to stop charging interest So, Im persuaded   Mr P wouldve have known that interest is charged on an outstanding balance if its not 
cleared each month given the interest being charged on the account before 2021.
Furthermore, Im persuaded Mr P had access to his account on-line. I say this because it 
appears it was by accessing his account on-line Mr P was able to update his email address 
in January 2022.
Overall, despite Mr P not receiving statements in 2021, Im satisfied that Mr P should have 
reasonably been aware interest was being charged on his outstanding balance and that he 
could have accessed his account on-line for further information if he needed to.
Call waiting and mis-information being provided 
While I dont find that Sainsburys has treated Mr P unfairly in respect of the above, I accept 
that Sainsburys call waiting times were too long and Sainsburys has also accepted it 
provided some incorrect information. So, Im satisfied Mr P was caused unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience for which fair redress is appropriate
Sainsburys recognised it let Mr P down here, apologised and credited £60 compensation to 
his account. When deciding if the compensation is fair, Ive taken into account that we all 
experience some inconvenience at times in our day-to-day lives  and a certain level of 
frustration and minor annoyance is expected and that the incorrect information didnt impact 
on the outcome of the crux of Mr Ps complaint. 
Given this, I consider Sainsburys compensation award a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this part of Mr Ps complaint. So, I wont be asking Sainsburys to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman