DRN-2973972
The complaint
Miss B and Mr H complain that Amtrust Europe Limited have said that there is no cover for 
adverse costs for their legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Miss B and Mr H have used a representative to help with their complaint. But for ease of 
reading and as the underlying claim is primarily hers, Ill mainly refer only to Miss B. Ill also 
ascribe the comments of the representative to Miss B herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Miss B has the benefit of insurance for certain legal 
expenses which is provided by Amtrust. 
Miss B made a claim which was accepted and progressed against her former employer. She 
later sought assurance from Amtrust that she would be insured against adverse costs. 
Amtrust explained such costs werent covered. Miss B disagrees and believes she is 
covered for adverse costs. She says as a result of Amtrusts stance on the matter she had 
no choice but to withdraw part of her claim against her former employer. A complaint was 
made and when Amtrust maintained their position the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss B 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
The policy terms set out the basis of the cover available. Ive added emphasis to terms 
defined in the policy where appropriate to do so. Under the heading of What your policy 
covers Employment Disputes Miss Bs policy says Standard advisers costs to pursue 
a legal action brought before an employment tribunal
Standard advisers costs is specifically defined in the policy as The level of advisers 
costs that would normally be incurred in using a specialist panel solicitor And from this 
advisers costs is defined as Legal fees and disbursements incurred by the adviser. 
And adviser is further defined as Our specialist panel solicitors or their agents
I dont think these terms and definitions are unclear or ambiguous. Its common within LEI 
that adverse costs arent included for employment cases  likely because it is rare for a 
tribunal to award adverse costs. 
I note that costs in the policy is defined as Standard advisers costs and adverse costs. 
But nowhere in relation to employment cases does it say that costs are covered other than 
as part of a separately defined term as referred to above. 
Other sections of the policy, such as clinical negligence say that there is cover for costs to 
pursue a legal claim This is in contrast to the term referred to above for employment 
disputes. I think Amtrust have made that distinction clear enough and I dont think their 
conclusion that there isnt cover under this policy for adverse costs for employment cases is 
unreasonable. 
Ive considered Miss Bs arguments involving alternative interpretations of the terms and that 
the terms are unclear and so I should find in her favour. But I dont agree, in my opinion, the 
terms are sufficiently clear.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think Amtrust have acted outside the policy 
terms or unfairly and so Im not going to require them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman