DRN-4472973
The complaint
W is a company. It complains that Revolut Ltd suspended and then closed its account with it. 
W complains too that Revolut has not returned funds held in the account.
The complaint has been brought by Ws director, Mr A. The company and Mr A have also 
had legal representation, so references to their arguments and submissions include those 
made on their behalf. 
What happened
At the relevant time W had at least two accounts, including one with Revolut. 
On 28 March 2022 W received a payment of US$799,950 (equivalent to just under 
£600,000) to his account with Revolut. The payment came from a US company, G. Ws  
account statements indicate that around £275,000 was transferred from the account over the 
following two to three weeks, leaving a balance of £250,000.  
In April 2022, however, Revolut blocked the account. It said it had received a fraud claim in 
respect of the payment on 28 March 2022. On 18 May 2022 the balance of funds on the 
account, £250,000, was returned to the US bank from which the 28 March payment had 
been made. 
Mr A complained to Revolut on behalf of W. He said that the payment had been a legitimate 
one and that, if the funds had been fraudulently paid, he was not involved and had not been 
aware of that. He referred the matter to this service. 
In the course of our consideration of this complaint, W has provided, amongst other things:
invoices addressed to G, the sender of the funds, by W, and which he says show that 
the payment (and others) were for work carried out for G; 
an affidavit from an individual connected to G; and 
court papers filed in respect of proceedings in Texas for the forfeiture of more than 
US$12million obtained by fraud.    
Ill discuss those documents later, but the investigator who considered Ws complaint was 
not minded to uphold it. He thought Revolut had acted fairly in suspending the account and 
then closing it and in returning the funds held to its credit.
W didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For context, I should say that Ws account with another provider was also suspended and 
closed, as was Mr As personal account. They are the subject of separate complaints, which 
I wont discuss here. Where relevant to Ws complaint, however, I have considered 
documents submitted in Mr As complaint. 
I should mention too that it is not for me to say whether W or Mr A was involved in any type 
of fraud. What I must do is to decide what, in my opinion, is a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint. 
The allegations which led to the suspension and closure of Ws account are set out in the 
court papers. In summary, it is alleged that a US company made two payments, totalling 
more than $12million, as a result of a business email compromise (or BEC) scam. A BEC 
scam occurs when fraudsters spoof or intercept the email account of someone who is 
making a payment and provide different payment details. The intended recipients of the 
payments from the US company did not receive them. 
Around $5million of the US$12million was paid to two individuals and, of that, US$2.4million 
was then credited to the account of a US law firm, which Ill call L. It was then transferred to 
G, and G made the payment to W. 
The maker of the affidavit in which these allegations are made is a US Special Agent, and 
those allegations appear to be based on information provided by investigators employed by 
the various banks within the chain of payments. The agent acknowledges that the account 
holders through which the funds passed may be money mules  which I take to mean 
individuals or businesses whose accounts have been used without their knowledge or who 
knew about the payments but did not appreciate the reasons why their accounts were being 
used. 
In my view, the court papers are more likely than not to be an accurate record of the source 
of the funds paid to W.  
The affidavit sworn by the individual linked to G confirms that G received the funds from L. 
He says that the funds were of clean origin and verified by L. He sent them to W as 
payment for the development of software, in three separate payments.     
The three invoices were all in the name of W and were all addressed to G. Two indicated 
that payment should be made to Ws business accounts, but one directed payment to be 
made to Mr As personal account. All are dated 28 March 2022, the date of the payment 
which led to this complaint.
As I have indicated, I think it very likely that the ultimate source of the funds which W 
received was the BEC scam. Mr A has provided a copy of Gs US bank statement, showing 
the only credit as a transfer of US$2.4million from L. Thats consistent with the statements in 
the court papers.
That does not mean of course that W, through Mr A, knew about the BEC scam or that it 
stood to profit from it. There are however a number of features which I think support 
Revoluts decisions here. 
The three invoices to which I have referred totalled nearly $2.4million, all of the funds 
received by G from L. That represents a substantial contract for a company of the size of W 
and which, Mr A says, had just come out of dormancy. The invoices however refer simply to 
Software / Application Development and Sale. I would expect to see very much more to 
show, for example, what services were provided and over what period, as well as a detailed 
written set of terms and conditions. It is also not clear to me why payments were made to three separate accounts, one of them 
a personal account. None of this is dealt with in Ws evidence or in the affidavit from Gs 
officer. And I note too that the payment to Ws account with Revolut was received on the 
same day as the date on the invoice.    
It is notable too that the affidavit does not seek to explain why G received US$2.4million into 
what appears to have been an otherwise unused bank account from a firm of lawyers. 
Indeed, that affidavit does little more than state facts about the transfers  which are in any 
event verifiable from other sources. 
As I have said, its not for me to decide whether or to what extent W was involved in or knew 
about the original BEC scam. That said, I dont find Mr As subsequent explanations of the 
reasons for the payment at all persuasive. 
For these reasons, I think that Revolut acted reasonably in suspending Ws account and 
then closing it, and in returning the funds.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Ws complaint and do not require 
Revolut Ltd to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman