DRN-4072909
The complaint
This complaint is that Lloyds Bank PLC did not fairly compensate the estate of Mr M after it 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr M. 
What happened
I was very sorry to learn that Mr M sadly died in November 2004. 
The estates representative states that Mr M took out a mortgage with Lloyds back in 1979. 
He then took out some further borrowing in the years thereafter. 
Following a complaint made by Mr Ms estate, Lloyds agreed it had mis-sold PPI to Mr M 
and it offered to pay compensation. However, Lloyds didnt have full records of the PPI that 
was sold. It told us it thought the first PPI premium that had been paid was for £12.26 and 
that the earliest this could have been collected was 25 May 1993. Lloyds also said the latest 
the PPI could have lasted for was up to 26 June 2000. 
Mr Ms estate did not accept that the PPI policy started in 1993 or that the cover had ended 
in 2000. The representative said he thought cover had started in 1979. He also thought the 
cover had been paid for longer than 2000. 
Our adjudicator thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr Ms estate did not accept that view. In 
summary, the representative said: 
he wanted proof the PPI was in respect of the 1993 mortgage loan and not the 1996 
loan. If it had been for the 1996 loan, the refund would have been greater; 
the 1993 borrowing had not ended in 2000, but in 2010; 
he wanted evidence the PPI payments were £12.26 per month. 
The matter was then passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As the parties agree that PPI was mis-sold, I dont need to consider what happened at the 
point of sale. Instead, I have to look at whether the offer Lloyds made to compensate Mr Ms 
estate for that mis-sale is fair. 
Neither party has been able to provide me with any evidence to say conclusively when Mr 
Ms PPI policy started, how long it lasted, or when the last PPI premium was paid. The PPI 
looks as though it was sold at least 30 years ago and I wouldnt expect either party to have 
full records for that long. I need to be clear that financial businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. It is not unusual that Lloyds doesnt have a full set of data for this case. 
I understand Mr M was sold a regular premium PPI policy. That means he would have paid 
for PPI every month and the premiums would not have attracted interest. To put things right, 
Id expect Lloyds to work out and pay to the estate what Mr M paid each month for the PPI 
cover. Id also expect it to pay 8% simple interest on each payment from when Mr M paid it 
until the date it is paid to the estate. 
As neither Lloyds nor Mr Ms estate can tell me for certain when the PPI started, I have to 
apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, I must look at what most likely happened 
based on the evidence before me. I appreciate the representative has said he wants 
conclusive proof of when the PPI started. But that conclusive proof does not exist. So, in a 
case like this, I have to look at what was most likely. 
From the information provided by Lloyds, I can see that Mr Ms first mortgage was taken out 
in 1979 for £18,000. He then took further borrowing out in April 1993 for £4,000. Further 
borrowing was then taken out in 1996, 2003 and 2004. 
The executor believes the PPI was initially taken out in 1979. But Lloyds says it didnt sell 
PPI at that time. From what we know about how PPI policies were generally sold, I think 
thats probably correct. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Lloyds sold PPI alongside 
this type of borrowing in 1979. 
On that basis, I agree with Lloyds that the cover was most likely sold when Mr M applied for 
a further advance to the mortgage in 1993. Looking at the cost of the PPI premium, I think its 
most likely the cover was sold to protect the ongoing repayments from 1993 for the 1979 
mortgage and what would have been the new repayments for the 1993 borrowing. Lloyds 
says the cover cost £12.26. This cost is in line with what Id expect if the repayments for both 
loans were covered at that time.   
Lloyds says 26 June 2000 is the last possible date the cover could have been paid for. It has 
provided evidence to show that the last changed date was 1 July 2000. 
The representative doesnt think this date can be right. He thinks the PPI lasted for longer 
and that the borrowing was ongoing until 2010. Ive seen some statements the 
representative provided to suggest that could well be the case. But just because the 
borrowing lasted after 2000, it doesnt follow that the PPI policy did. 
There are a number of reasons as to why the PPI policy could have been cancelled before 
the borrowing was fully repaid. I note that in the initial call to our service, the representative 
said that Mr M had cancelled the cover a few years before he sadly died. I can see Mr M 
possibly ran into some financial difficulties in or around 2000 as it looks as though he was 
behind with his mortgage repayments. The PPI could have been cancelled by the insurer if 
Mr M was similarly behind with his premiums. Its also possible Mr M could have cancelled 
the cover to keep costs down. Or it could have been cancelled for a completely different 
reason altogether. 
Either way the only real evidence I have indicates that the cover was cancelled before 1 July 
2000. So I think it is fair for Lloyds to assume it was paid as far as possible up to that date - 
in this case, the last premium that Lloyds could have charged would have been 26 June 
2000. It is possible Mr M did not pay for PPI every month, but I think its fair for Lloyds to 
assume that he did.
The representative said he wanted proof that the cover sold was for the 1993 borrowing and 
not the later borrowing in 1996. Lloyds has provided evidence from its electronic showing a 
premium was charged back in 1993. The screenshot also shows the cost of the cover at that 
time was £12.26. I understand our adjudicator sent a copy of this to the representative. 
Putting all of this together, I think Lloyds has assumed a fair start and end date for the PPI 
policy. I can see it has calculated what it reasonably thinks Mr M paid each month for the 
PPI cover between those dates. And it has applied interest of 8% to each of those payments. 
Im satisfied Lloyds has undertaken all of the steps Id expect to fairly put matters right here. I appreciate my decision may well come as a disappointment, but I am satisfied that Lloyds 
offer to the estate of Mr M is fair. On that basis, I dont need to tell it to take any further 
action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any further action in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman