DRN-3592803
The complaint
Mr I complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc re-instated his credit card in error. 
What happened
RBS wrote to Mr I to let him know they were cancelling his credit card as theyd identified
him as being in whats known as persistent debt. They said if he paid the card balance in
full it would be reinstated, or if he couldnt repay it then they would set up a repayment plan.
Mr I paid his card balance in full so RBS reinstated his card and he began to use it again.
RBS then incorrectly increased his credit limit on the card and then cancelled the card again.
Mr I didnt think this was fair and complained.
RBS reviewed the complaint and upheld it. They said the account had been reopened
incorrectly and they were now unable to reopen it again. To apologise RBS offered Mr I £100
compensation. Mr I didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint here. He said hed
only spent on the card as RBS told him he could, he therefore asked to RBS to waive the
card balance, he also said the issue was causing problems with his credit file.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She said that as
RBS had confirmed it had incorrectly reopened the account then they should waive the
interest and fees on the balance and remove any adverse markers from Mr Is credit file,
which related to the second closure.
RBS didnt agree, they explained that what theyd meant is when the card was reopened,
they hadnt followed the right process when reopening it. This meant the account closed
again and wasnt possible to be reopened. Our investigator didnt think this changed their
opinion on the complaint, and as RBS didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 August 2022 where I said:
The persistent debt process with RBS said if Mr I repaid his balance within a certain period
of time then the card would remain open for him to use as normal. Mr I did this but when
processing this reopen RBS didnt do it correctly which meant the card then closed again
and isnt possible for it to be reopened.
I understand Mr I would like the balance written off, but Im not persuaded that would
produce a fair and reasonably outcome for the error RBS have made. I say that because Mr
I has had the benefit of that money and I can see the balance is in the thousands. However,
Im also not satisfied £100 is fair compensation either.
If RBS had done what it was supposed to and not incorrectly closed Mr Is account for the
second time, then he would still have use of the card and also be responsible to the balance
and any interest and fees that accrue. However due to RBSs error he likely now has a
second incorrect closure record on his credit file, therefore RBS should remove any adverse
markers from Mr Is credit file which relate to the second incorrect closure.
Mr I also now doesnt have use of that credit card and is likely to find it more difficult to
obtain a credit card elsewhere, as he has an outstanding balance on this one. To
compensate Mr I for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience RBS have caused, they
should pay him £350 compensation. I say this because RBS havent been clear in the
communication with Mr I, theyve incorrectly closed his account and he now has the hassle
of having to arrange an alternative card. Im therefore satisfied that £350 is fair and
reasonable compensation for this.
RBS responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr I responded and didnt accept it. 
He listed several errors RBS had made which included giving incorrect information, 
increasing his credit limit, closing his account incorrectly and said because of the errors he 
felt the whole balance should be waived. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Is points and while I agree RBS have made errors, I would like to assure 
him Ive taken into account all the points hes made when reaching this decision. This 
includes giving him incorrect information, increasing his credit limit, closing his account 
incorrectly. And while RBS have made errors, Im not persuaded it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome to write off the balance of his credit card. I say this because the balance 
is several thousand pounds and Mr I has had the benefit of this money. When taking all the 
errors Mr I has listed into consideration and Im satisfied £350 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience RBS have caused by them.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr I £350 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and remove any adverse markers from his 
credit file which relate to the second account closure. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman