DRN-2145856
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V are unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after they made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs V are being represented by their son who Ill refer to as Mr V2. All references to 
UKI include its claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V have the benefit of travel insurance through a packaged bank account. In 
February 2019 they went on holiday with a return date at the end of March. On 28 March 
Mrs V was admitted to hospital as she was unwell. The hospital contacted UKI the following 
day. UKI then spoke to Mr V who advised their scheduled travel dates were 3 March to 29 
March. 
UKI asked Mrs Vs GP for information about her medical history. It received this on 3 April 
and advised the claim wasnt covered. That was because Mrs V had been admitted to 
hospital as a result of a mini stroke and the doctors notes showed that was something shed 
suffered from before and it hadnt been declared prior to her trip.   
Further medical evidence was received from the treating hospital the following day which 
contained a revised diagnosis of epilepsy. UKI agreed this wasnt something shed 
previously suffered from and accepted the claim. However, by that stage Mrs V had been 
discharged from hospital with her family paying the medical bills. UKI organised an escorted 
flight back to the UK for Mrs V. 
Discussions continued over the reimbursement of her medical expenses with Mr V2 
providing additional information in support of the claim. At the end of April, after UKI had 
confirmed to Mr V2 that payment would be made, it said it wouldnt be doing this because it 
had found their trip exceeded the 31 day maximum set out in the policy. 
UKI accepted there had been issues with the handling of the claim (for example delay in 
responding while Mrs V was in hospital). And that it had been aware of the dates of their trip 
for two weeks prior to the claim being declined. It offered to pay £100 in total to recognise 
the impact of those errors on Mr and Mrs V. 
Our investigator thought the claim had been fairly declined. But he noted UKI had told Mr V2 
on a number of occasions that it would be paid and had gone as far as to confirm bank 
details with him. He thought these failings would have caused additional distress at what 
was already a difficult time for Mr and Mrs V. He recommended a total payment of £300 
should be made. 
UKI accepted his recommendation. Mr V2 didnt agree He said UKI had only realised the 
issue with travel dates at the end of the process and argued it should have done so sooner. 
He thought the compensation should be higher. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
UKI initially turned down the claim Mr and Mrs V made because it thought this was linked to 
a pre-existing condition which it hadnt been told about. And I can see Mr and Mrs Vs policy 
doesnt cover any claim that is the result of a pre-existing medical condition unless thats 
been declared to UKI and accepted in writing. 
Ive seen a copy of the medical notes from when Mrs V was admitted to hospital and these 
do say that her admission was as a result of a mini stroke. UKI referred the information from 
her GP to its medical advisers who said this was linked to a condition shed previously 
suffered from. So I dont think UKI was at fault in concluding this wasnt something that 
would be covered by her policy. 
Mr V2 has argued that decision was based on a mis-diagnosis of the condition. That might 
be correct but I dont think UKI had any reason to question the information it had been 
provided with by the hospital. When it did receive new information which said there was a 
different cause for Mrs Vs hospital admission it reviewed its position, accepted the claim and 
arranged an escorted flight home for her.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs V are unhappy UKI subsequently turned down the claim for the 
medical expenses theyd paid when Mrs V was discharged from hospital. That was because 
it said their trip exceeded the maximum set out in the policy. And the policy says your policy 
will only operate..for trips up to 31 days unless you have bought a trip extension. 
I think thats a clear term and I dont think its in dispute Mr and Mrs V hadnt bought a trip 
extension. And the information Mr V2 provided in support of the claim for medical expenses 
included details of their original outbound and return flights. He said they left on 25 February 
with a scheduled return date of 29 March. That means their trip was for a total of 33 days 
which does exceed the maximum set out in the policy. Mrs V became unwell on 28 March 
which was after the trip limit set out in their policy had expired. So I dont think UKI acted 
unfairly in concluding their claim wasnt covered. 
Mr V2 argues UKI should have realised that earlier. But Ive listened to the call UKI had with 
Mr V after Mrs V was admitted to hospital. It asked him about travel dates during that call 
and he said the trip was from 3 March until 29 March. I appreciate Mr V may have been 
confused as his focus would understandably be on Mrs Vs health. But I dont think UKI had 
any reason to question the information he provided and it was reasonable of it to rely on this. 
However, I do agree when Mr V2 provided details of the actual travel dates it should have 
reviewed that information at an earlier stage. In fact it only realised there was an issue here 
just before making payment for the claim and after it had told Mr V2 this would be paid. 
UKI has also accepted there were customer service issues when dealing with the claim while 
Mr and Mrs V were abroad. I agree it could have done more to keep them updated with 
progress.  I also think UKI gave Mr and Mrs V a clear expectation their medical claim would 
be paid even after receiving information about their travel dates. I appreciate it will have 
been particularly disappointing when they learnt this wasnt the case. 
However, Im mindful of the fact that, although this wasnt in fact a claim their policy covered, 
UKI arranged an escorted flight home for Mrs V. Overall, I think the £300 our investigator 
recommended does enough to recognise the impact on Mr and Mrs V of what UKI got wrong 
in this case. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. U K Insurance Ltd will need to pay 
Mr and Mrs V £300   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V2 (on behalf 
of Mr and Mrs V) to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman