DRN-2713600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim 
made against their pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F held a pet insurance policy with RSA to provide cover for their dog. At the end 
of April 2020, Mr and Mrs Fs dog was taken to the vet with symptoms of scooting and had 
her anal glands emptied.
On 10 May 2020, Mr and Mrs F bought a new policy underwritten by RSA (rather than 
renewing the existing policy). The new policy included a 14-day exclusion period at the 
beginning of the policy term. On 26 May 2020, Mr and Mrs Fs dog returned to the vet. The 
vets notes state that she hadnt improved since her glands were emptied and that she was 
squatting to urinate. The vet diagnosed bladder stones and recommended surgery, so Mr 
and Mrs F submitted a claim against their insurance policy.
RSA declined the claim. It said that although the condition identified on 26 May 2020 was 
likely linked to the previous visit to the vet, it couldnt definitively confirm that. However it 
stated that the claim form completed by Mr F when he submitted the claim, noted the date 
that the clinical signs were first noticed as 22 May 2020. As the symptoms were noted as 
beginning within the first 14 days of the policy, during the exclusion period and RSAs expert 
believed it would have taken longer than a couple of days for bladder stones to develop.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree so they referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she thought that RSA had done enough 
to evidence that Mr and Mrs Fs bladder stones are likely to have occurred before the end of 
the 14-day exclusion period at the beginning of the policy term.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs previous policy was also with RSA, however they didnt renew that policy and 
instead took out a new, cheaper policy online. So as they had entered into a new contract of 
insurance, RSA has stated that the following exclusion applies to this claim:
If you or your vet notice changes in your pets health or behaviour before your policy was 
taken out, or if you have been advised before the cover start date that a condition, illness or 
injury may lead to further illness or treatments, we will consider this to be a pre-existing 
condition or illness, and it will not be covered under your policy.
It also states:
We dont pay if you or your vet notice changes in your pets health, or behaviour within the 
first 14 days of your cover start datethis exclusion only applies in the first policy period for 
a pet.
And I think its clear from these terms that any condition which began before the policy was 
incepted or in the first 14 days wouldnt be covered under the terms of the new policy. So 
Ive considered whether the decision to decline the claim on the basis that the condition 
began before the end of the 14-day exclusion period was fair.
When submitting the claim, Mr F completed a claim form. He says the vet completed it on his 
behalf, but he has signed it to say that the information provided on the form is true and 
complete. So, as Mr F has signed to say the information provided is correct, I think its fair 
for RSA to rely on the information provided on that form to reach a decision.
The claim form states, Please tell us when you noticed your pet was unwell and Mr F has 
answered 22 May 2020. The form then has a section for the vet to complete. The form then 
states, please tell us the date that the clinical signs were first noticed and the vet has 
stated 22 April 2020. Mr F has said that this was an error on the vets behalf and that a letter 
sent later confirms this. I have considered that letter and I dont think it confirms that the date 
was incorrect  however it does identify that Mr and Mrs Fs dog was treated for two 
separate potential issues.
Theres been discussion about whether the bladder stones were linked to Mr and Mrs Fs 
first visit to the vet at the end of April 2020 or whether the condition was separate but I dont 
think I need to decide that. The form also refers to the first time Mr and Mrs F noticed 
symptoms being the 22 May 2020, which was within the exclusion period  so I think its 
likely Mr and Mrs F noticed symptoms of the issue before the 14-day exclusion period had 
ended, even if the two issues are separate as thats what Mr F confirmed on the signed 
claim form sent to RSA.
In addition to this, RSAs expert has provided commentary that bladder stones develop over 
a period of time and wouldnt have developed in the two days between the exclusion period 
ending and Mr F taking his dog to the vet.
So taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that RSA has shown that its likely 
Mr and Mrs Fs dog showed symptoms before the end of the 14-day exclusion period as 
thats what they told the insurer when they first submitted the claim form. So it follows that I 
dont think RSA has acted unfairly in declining the claim based on the information provided 
to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman