DRN-3977440
The complaint
M complains that QBE UK Limited (QBE) is unfairly chasing repayment of an amount it paid 
to a third party following a claim on its minibus insurance policy
What happened
Ms minibus was involved in an accident and a third party submitted a claim. Following an 
investigation, QBE settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. But it said that Ms refusal to 
cooperate with the investigation breached the policy terms and as such it refused to 
indemnify M for the outlay. It said it had been compelled to make payment in the settlement 
of the claim, and because the conditions of its policy hadnt been met, it had the right of 
recovery of that payment from M.
But M says it did all it could to assist. It says it provided QBE with everything it had available 
and the stress of having to deal with this claim and the threat of having to now repay 
approximately £50k - £70k to QBE has been extremely distressing. 
M complained to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint and said that QBE 
should indemnify M and stop any attempts to recoup what it had paid to the third-party. 
QBE hasnt replied so the complaint is now with me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
There are two issues here. Was the driver of the minibus on cover? And, has QBE done 
enough to say that M breached the terms of the policy?
So, lets look at the cover first. The driver originally owned this minibus. However, as he 
didnt have a Public Service Vehicle Operators licence, he says he sold the minibus to M. 
He then drove the minibus for M under the minibus insurance cover that M had with QBE.  
Ive read the submission by M, and Ive read the interviews conducted by the independent 
claims validation company with both M and the driver of bus. Ive seen a copy of the V5 and 
the screenshot from the DVLA. And I can see that the version of how the driver came to be 
driving the bus is consistent across all of this evidence.
However, I can see why QBE had concerns. The original owner of the minibus had 
previously attempted to get cover to drive it under his own name. But even though this was 
refused, this driver still managed to be driving this minibus at the time of the accident.
But for QBE to say that he wasnt entitled to drive the minibus, under the circumstances as 
described by all parties, it would need solid evidence that M was acting outside of the policy 
terms and endorsements. And it would need legal advice to support its decision. 
But the story of how the driver came to be driving the minibus is consistent. Yes, I agree the 
circumstances are slightly unusual, but there is consistency and theres nothing on file from 
the underwriter to say this arrangement shouldnt have been covered. Looking at the policy 
terms and endorsements, the driver is covered. I agree it wouldve been better if the cash 
transaction following the sale of the minibus had been evidenced. But that single 
unsupported piece of evidence doesnt mean that all the other evidence, should be 
disregarded. So, I think the factual evidence provided: the V5; the screenshot from the 
DVLA; alongside the narrative provided by M; the driver and Ms son, far outweighs any 
reservations QBE might have. As such, I acknowledge QBEs reservations, but Im satisfied 
the driver was covered to drive the minibus at the time of the incident.
So, lets look at whether QBE has done enough to say M breached the policy terms.
The policy terms QBE say were breached are as follows:
5.1 .1 you must notify us as soon as reasonably possible of any incident which may
result in a claim under this insurance
And
5.2.1 you must give us or the police all information and assistance that may be
required in connection with any such incident or claim in respect thereof
The accident occurred in October 2019. From the file I can see that this accident was 
reported to the police, and they attended the scene. They wrote to M three months later and 
advised that they wouldnt be taking any further action. This letter was provided to QBE in 
April 2020. 
I acknowledge there were attempts by QBE to contact both M and the driver. I also 
acknowledge that QBE was not getting the response it required. But as the claim moved 
through the process, interviews were conducted, circumstances were explained, and 
eventually both the background and what happened on the date in question all became 
clearer.
I can see that QBE carried out an investigation. And I can see that QBE sought legal advice. 
I can also see that there were numerous internal conversations with senior underwriters 
based on the evidence that had been collected and the legal advice put forward. But the bar 
to deny indemnity and seek a refund of costs is very high. And Im not convinced that QBE 
had enough to do that in this case.
QBE did the right thing by seeking legal advice. But I can see that there was a hesitation 
about whether to accept it or not. One underwriter acknowledged that as underwriters they 
are led by legal expertise. But this same underwriter later writes that she doesnt think that 
QBE had enough to deny cover. Another underwriter says, "I guess in close we should act 
on the legal advice". Again, the wording of this email would indicate that there was a 
hesitation to deny cover. 
My sense reading the internal emails and notes was that some case handlers were adamant 
that something underhand was going on. But others were less convinced. What I really 
found unusual were the comments in August 2021 from the legal team. It would seem the 
report produced by the legal team was based solely on the claims validation interview 
summary. This report indicates that the interviews had not been watched by the legal team. 
The report also says that no explanation was given to explain the early lack of cooperation from the driver or M. He questions the sons involvement and he says it would be entirely 
justifiable to decline indemnity. 
But Im struggling to understand how such a hardened stance was taken given the email 
from Ms son in June 2021. In this email Ms son sets out clearly why there had been a lack 
of engagement. He explained how hed become involved and he explained the language 
difficulties. He answered the questions posed by QBE and these answers were consistent 
with the claim validation interviews.  I can only conclude that the legal team had not seen 
this evidence as its not been referenced in their report. This may have caused an issue in 
QBE as it would be good practice to give more weight to legal advice. But in this case, I can 
see some case handlers were less convinced, and this is possibly because not everyone 
was aware of all the evidence on file. 
I think QBE was always going to have to carry some liability here. There are internal emails 
which conclude that QBE would always have ended up paying something out in this case. I 
cant see anything in the early correspondence on file where QBE told M that it was having 
difficulty contacting the driver. So, its difficult to now say that the driver was purposely 
avoiding talking to QBE. I also note that the driver no longer works for M, and that the 
minibus has now been sold. Given what we know now, Im not convinced an earlier 
statement from the driver wouldve led to a different percentage split in the settlement. I say 
this because CCTV was available, there was a police report and other witness statements. 
So, I think QBE had enough evidence to make its decision on what percentage liability it 
needed to pay, without the drivers statement. 
I think that QBE raised justifiable concerns on this case. It conducted an investigation and it 
sought legal advice. But Im not convinced that the legal team had access to or reviewed the 
full file, and I dont think QBE had enough tangible evidence to support the course of action it 
is now choosing to take. I acknowledge that QBE struggled to contact both M and the driver. 
But I dont think this breach in terms had any long-term impact on how QBE eventually 
settled this claim. I understand that QBE initially looked to stop any action against M. But its 
now reinstated solicitors and is intending to resume attempts to reclaim its outlay. As I am 
upholding this complaint, QBE needs to cease all attempts to obtain any of its outlay from M. 
If there are any court actions in place against M, these should also be ceased. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QBE UK Limited to cease any 
current or planned legal actions against M for the recovery of its outlay and to close down 
this file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman