DRN-4007931
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy how Ald Automotive Limited dealt with an extension to a hire agreement.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs B was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Ald. 
She paid an advance payment of £841.75 and the agreement was for 36 months, with 
monthly rental payments of £280.56.
In August 2022, just before the agreement was due to expire, Mrs B sent Ald a request to 
extend her agreement and paid a £150 fee for the extension. However, she sent this request 
to an incorrect email address, and Ald never received it. As such, Ald started contacting Mrs 
B for the return of the car. Mrs B wasnt happy about this and complained to Ald. 
Ald explained that they hadnt received Mrs Bs request for an extension. But they agreed to 
honour the request as if they had received it. And the agreement was extended. However, 
Mrs B continued to receive requests to return the car.
Mrs B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. Our 
investigator said that as Ald hadnt initially received the request to extend the agreement, 
then they acted reasonably by asking Mrs B to return the car. However, the investigator said 
that any request to return the car made after 18 November 2022 was unreasonable, as Ald 
had agreed to extend the agreement at this point. The investigator said this was caused by 
an admin error, and Ald had apologised for this. But she said that, due to the stress and 
anxiety caused by their error, they should also pay Mrs B £100 compensation.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She was unhappy with Alds requests, for example 
asking for the car to be returned with an MOT; that they made a mathematical error on the 
extension agreement which she had to point out to them; and that she had rung them within 
their office hours, only to hear a message saying they were closed. She was also unhappy 
that Ald had started to send her correspondence about the car around nine months before 
the contract was due to end, which affected the enjoyment of my lease.
Mrs B says that she cant be the first customer to make a mistake and use the wrong email 
address, and she thinks that Ald shouldve had a process in place to make her aware of this. 
But instead they sent her late payment invoices. And she wasnt happy that, when they 
called her about this, they asked her to provide information to pass their security check. She 
said they could have been anyone demanding personal information and this process 
makes life easier for crooks and scammers!
Additionally, Mrs B wasnt happy with how Ald dealt with her complaint. And she thinks that 
Alds requests to return the car, after the agreement had ended but before it was extended, 
was intimidating and unprofessional behaviour. Because of this, she thinks that the £100 
compensation is grossly unfair and insulting because of the time shes had to spend 
dealing with this matter, and because shes been severely punished financially, physically, 
and mentally for what was clearly one genuine typographical error when [Ald] made a 
number of mistakes themselves.
To resolve her complaint, Mrs B would like Ald to offer her the opportunity to purchase the 
car, to stop referring to the monthly invoices as late hire invoices, and to provide a written 
apology. 
The investigator said that Mrs Bs comments didnt alter her view. So, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs B was supplied with goods under a hire agreement. This is 
a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints 
about it. 
The facts of this case arent disputed, so I wont repeat them here. Nor is it disputed that Ald 
got things wrong by still asking Mrs B to return the car after theyd agreed to extend the 
agreement in November 2022. So, my decision will focus on what I think Ald need to do to 
put things right. 
While Ive noted Mrs Bs comments about the incorrect email address, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Ald to have provided an invalid email address response to Mrs Bs 
email. I say this because, although Mrs B only got the email address incorrect by a single 
character, for Ald to set up an automated response, they would need to do this for every 
combination of invalid email address that someone could possibly use. And I dont think this 
is practical for any company to put in place.
Given this, although Mrs B genuinely believed that shed put in a request for an extension in 
August 2022, Ald hadnt received this, nor had they received any indication that Mrs B was 
arranging to return the car to them. As such, Mrs B would rightly find any requests to collect 
the car unwanted and unacceptable. 
However, even though Mrs B may not have wished to have received this correspondence, 
Ald were making factual statements based on the information they had available to them at 
the time, and it doesnt make them threatening. Ive seen no evidence that Alds contacts 
were excessive in the circumstances and Im therefore satisfied that Ald acted reasonably by 
following their process and contacting Mrs B about the return of the car.
I also think it was reasonable for Ald to start to contact Mrs B some months before the 
agreement was scheduled to end. This was done for information purposes, to advise Mrs B 
of her options, when the agreement came to an end, and what she would need to do to 
return the car. Ive seen the terms and conditions Mrs B agreed to and these say:
3.2 The Customer will Submit the Vehicle for MOT testing at an approved garage 
prior to the expiry of any test certificate (or prior to the date required by law).The car was first registered on 1 August 2019 and so, by law, it would need an MOT on 1 
August 2022. And term 3.2 requires the MOT to take place before this date. However, the 
agreement ran until September 2022. So the car wasnt due to be returned until after the 
date the MOT was required. As such, I dont think that Ald were unreasonable in reminding 
Mrs B that an MOT was needed before the car was returned to them.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that Ald acted unreasonably with how they 
dealt with their end of the agreement process, or in asking Mrs B to return the car, prior to 
them receiving and agreeing the request to extend the agreement.
With regards to Ald asking Mrs B to confirm personal information when they called her, they 
have a legal obligation to protect customers personal data. So, Id expect them to ask Mrs B 
security questions to establish they were speaking to the agreement holder before they 
discussed the agreement and what was happening. And Im satisfied that, in doing so, they 
were protecting Mrs B, and not making things easier for crooks and scammers.
Mrs B is also unhappy with how Ald dealt with her complaint. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is only able to consider complaints about regulated activities, and this doesnt 
include complaint handling. So, while I appreciate Mrs Bs depth of feeling about this, it isnt 
something Im able to consider as part of my overall decision.
From the correspondence thats been provided, Ive also noted that the issue with the 
agreement extension happened at a difficult and emotional time for Mrs B personally, and 
when she was suffering from health issues. And its clear from what Ive seen that she was 
impacted by this. However, when looking at what Ald should do to put things right, I will only 
be asking them to compensate Mrs B for the impact of their incorrect actions  contacting 
her in error asking about the return of the car after theyd agreed to extend the agreement in 
November 2022.
From what Ive seen, it's my understanding that this was a small number of letters and calls 
over a short space of time. And, while this would exacerbate how Mrs B was feeling, I think 
this had a limited direct impact. And Im satisfied that the £100 recommended by the 
investigator is in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been recommended. 
And Ive seen no compelling reason as to why I should change this.
Mrs B would like Ald to offer her the opportunity to purchase the car. I havent seen anything 
in the terms and conditions that Mrs B agreed to which gives her the right of purchase. And 
this right isnt usually included in a hire agreement. So, I wont be asking Ald to offer this. 
However, if this is something that Ald are able and want to do, then Id expect them to make 
this option available to Mrs B within a reasonable time before the end of the agreement 
extension.
Mrs B would also like Ald to change their process as to how they refer to their letters. Its not 
the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell a financial business what procedures 
and processes they must put in place  this is something the financial business will do in 
conjunction with their regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. As such, I wont be asking 
Ald to alter any of their processes.
Putting things right
Given the above, Im satisfied that Ald acted unreasonably by contacting Mrs B about the 
return of her car, after agreeing an extension to the agreement. Given the distress and 
inconvenience this correspondence caused Mrs B, Ald should pay her £100 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint, and Ald Automotive Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman