DRN-4199011
The complaint
Ms B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made errors with her international 
payment which resulted in a foreign exchange loss. 
What happened
Ms B says that on 13 March 2023 she visited a NatWest branch to make an international 
transfer. She says she handed the details to the staff, and she asked that the money was 
transferred from British Pounds Sterling (GBP) to Jamaican Dollar (JMD). Ms B says that the 
following day she realised the money was converted to the wrong currency, so she rang 
NatWest on 14 March 2023, and she says she was told she could recall the transaction for a 
£25 fee, which she did, but her funds were held in a NatWest suspense account. 
Ms B says that she tried to send the funds again on 23 March 2023, however, NatWest used 
the wrong intermediary bank details. She says she spoke to NatWest on 30 March 2023 to 
re-key the transaction again, but her funds did not reach the beneficiary. The funds were 
returned to Ms B, but these incurred a foreign exchange loss. Ms B made a complaint to 
NatWest.
NatWest partially upheld Ms Bs complaint. They said the branch confirmed that they acted 
on Ms Bs instruction, and they also provided Ms B with the opportunity to check this before 
processing the payment. They said the payment was then returned to NatWest because the 
beneficiary details were incorrect. They said when the payment was returned and it was 
rekeyed, the only option was to resend the money in United States Dollar (USD). 
NatWest said that the only other option was to return the funds back into her account and 
incur an exchange rate loss. They said that the payment was then sent in USD, and it 
credited the beneficiary account, but the funds had since been returned back to them. 
NatWest said that the intermediary bank is chosen by the beneficiary bank and not them, 
and the payment did reach the beneficiary therefore there were no issues with the payment 
details it was sent to. They said Ms B received an unhelpful service at the branch and she 
had to provide details again which wasnt her fault, so they said they credited £80 into her 
account, and they waived the £25 recall fee. Ms B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Ms Bs complaint. She said Ms B noticed the funds had 
been sent in USD when she received a receipt online, so she called NatWest to discuss this 
on 14 March 2023, and she says she was told the money couldnt be returned to her 
account. This was likely because the funds were in the process of being sent and had not 
yet been returned to the bank. The funds were returned to the bank on 17 March 2023 
where they remained in USD.
Our investigator said that Ms B requested the funds to be returned to her account on 20 
March 2023 as she felt NatWest had made several errors, but this would come at a loss of 
£1,288.10 after conversion to GBP, so Ms B sent the funds again. NatWest advised the 
funds hadnt been credited to the beneficiary, as they were unable to locate an account. She 
said NatWest should refund the £30.50 fee due to errors made in the branch. 
Ms B asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said the branch were supposed to send the funds in GBP, she said in the first 
few days after she wanted the money returned, they made it seem it wasn't possible to 
return it, she said the money was never supposed to enter the overseas country in USD, and 
that is the main point, which was their mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Ms Bs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by her. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.  
Ive looked at the original instruction that the branch processed as Ms B says that the branch 
were supposed to send the funds in GBP. And I can see that this shows the funds to be sent 
in USD. I asked NatWest how this would have been authorised, for example whether Ms B 
would have to sign to make the payment. NatWest confirmed to me that because the 
payment was made via Chip + Personal Identification Number (PIN), then a pre-receipt of 
the payment details keyed in by branch staff would have been printed and if Ms B was happy 
with the details, she would accept them with her PIN on the PIN pad. The final response 
letter NatWest sent Ms B also shows the branch confirmed they also provided Ms B with an 
opportunity to check the payment details before processing the payment. 
While there is an error in the final response letter regarding the payment being sent in the 
branch in GBP, Im satisfied that NatWests process is for a customer to check the details 
entered before it is processed. So if the branch staff had made an error and selected USD 
instead of GBP if they thought the payment was to be made in JMD and it wasnt available 
for them to select, or if they entered any details which didnt match up with the payment 
instructions Ms B says she gave the branch staff, then it would be proportionate for Ms B to 
not enter her PIN to authorise the transfer if the details didnt match what she wanted to be 
processed. NatWest have provided evidence that the payment was authorised by Chip + 
PIN by Ms B.
Ms B says she saw her receipt on the app the following day which showed the wrong 
currency, so she rung NatWest, but they told her she could not get the money back into her 
account. This is likely because the funds appear to have left NatWest already and was on 
route. I know Ms B has said that the wrong intermediary bank was used, but there can be 
different banks which are involved in a transfer, and sometimes different banks may need to 
be involved if there are different currencies being sent. 
I dont think different intermediary bank details were at fault for the payment being returned, 
this is because they notified NatWest that the reason for the return was INVALID BENE 
DETAILS and the beneficiary bank were unable to apply the payment. If this was routed 
through an intermediary which shouldnt have been involved in the transfer, then Im not 
persuaded that the funds would have reached as far as they did and that they wouldnt have 
received an invalid beneficiary details message. 
As a result the funds were returned to NatWest. As Ms B would have a foreign exchange 
loss, the payment was attempted again. Ms B authorised this and she signed a form to 
amend the payment. But the funds were returned again with the message "UNKNOWN ACCOUNT-WITH INSTITON". So again, as the funds were returned because the beneficiary 
bank did not recognise the beneficiary account details, the funds were unable to be applied, 
so they were returned. Ms B then agreed to have the funds credited to her account, and she 
incurred a foreign exchange loss.
I know Ms B wants the foreign exchange loss to be refunded to her. But it would not be 
proportionate for me to ask NatWest to do this as she authorised the original payment via 
her PIN, even though this was in a different currency to what she says she asked NatWest to 
send, and the branch confirmed that they provided her with an opportunity to check this 
before processing the payment. She agreed for the funds to be resent after being made 
aware of the foreign exchange loss, and she asked for the funds to be credited to her 
account when these were returned again, and she was aware that she would incur a foreign 
exchange loss for doing this. 
But NatWest have also confirmed that Ms B received an unhelpful service at the branch, and 
she had to provide details again which wasnt her fault. They waived the £25 investigation 
fee Ms B paid incurred and they awarded her £80 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Our investigator felt NatWest should also refund Ms B the initial transfer fee 
and NatWest have agreed to her view regarding this. So Im also persuaded that it would be 
fair for NatWest to refund the £30.50 in fees they charged her, but it follows I dont require 
them to do anything further. 
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that NatWest refunds Ms B the £30.50 in fees they charged her, 
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. National Westminster Bank Plc should refund the £30.50 in 
fees they charged her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman