DRN-3765919
The complaint
Mr and Ms H complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the 
money they lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr and Ms H held a joint account with Nationwide. As Mr H made the payments and has 
corresponded with Nationwide and this service, Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
In 2017 Mr H wanted to do a PHD and saw an advert about a company that could help. Mr H 
made a faster payment of £2,500 to this company on 21 December 2017 and a card 
payment to a different company (but that seems to relate to the same scam) for £2,500 the 
following day. Mr H didnt receive the services he expected but says he was out of the 
country and didnt raise the matter with Nationwide until March 2022.
Nationwide didnt agree to refund Mr and Ms H. It said it acted reasonably at the time the 
payments were made and couldnt apply new guidance to events that took place in 2017. 
Nationwide also noted that it had tried to recover Mr and Ms Hs funds but hadnt been 
successful.
Mr and Ms H were unhappy with Nationwides response and brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
the payments Mr and Ms H made werent so unusual that Nationwide ought to have 
intervened when they were made. The bank that received the transfer of £2,500 confirmed 
that no funds remained, and Mr and Ms H no longer have the right to a chargeback given the 
time that has elapsed since the debit card payment was made. 
Mr and Ms H werent happy with the investigators findings. They referred to the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and the fact 
Nationwide had signed up to it. Mr H also said that it was unreasonable of Nationwide to 
reward a fraudster at their expense. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Nationwide is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. Mr H made and authorised these payments, 
although I accept that when he did so he didnt think his funds were at risk.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr H when he authorised the payments from his joint account with Ms H or whether it 
could and should have done more before processing them. 
Mr and Ms Hs account was a current account that was rarely used. But Im not persuaded 
the transactions they made in December 2017 were so unusual and out of character that 
Nationwide ought reasonably to have intervened and asked them proportionate questions 
about them. The two transactions were relatively low in value and were to two different 
payees. I dont consider there was anything concerning about either of them that should 
have been apparent to Nationwide at the time. In the circumstances, I consider that 
Nationwide acted reasonably in processing them. 
Mr H has said Nationwide should refund him under the CRM Code. The CRM Code came 
into effect on 28 May 2019 and applies in certain circumstances after this date. The CRM 
Code isnt retrospective, so I cant apply it to transactions that were made by Mr H in 
December 2017 before it came into force. 
Chargeback is a process that allows debit and credit card holders to reverse a transaction 
when theres a problem with the goods or services they have purchased, so could be 
relevant to the card payment Mr H made as part of the scam. It is organised and run through 
the overarching card scheme (Visa for Mr and Ms H) but customers wishing to use the 
service must go through their card issuer (Nationwide in this case). There are strict time 
limits to raise a chargeback though (120 days from the date of purchase). Mr and Ms H are 
well outside of this time limit and so a chargeback in respect of the debit card payment 
wouldnt have been successful. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear that Mr and Ms H have been the victims of a scam, I cant 
reasonably ask Nationwide to refund them. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
OmbudsmanHave been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar withthan the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.