DRN-3245195
The complaint
Mr H (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it lent to him.
 
What happened
Mr H took two home collected loans from LAH between December 2013 and April 2014. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found 
below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 05/12/2013 written off 32 £10.00
2 £752.00 10/04/2014 08/05/2014 47 £16.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so when loan two was 
advanced, the total weekly commitment Mr H had to LAH was £26. 
Mr H had some problems repaying the first loan, and LAH has told us this loan was written 
off in January 2016. 
For loan two, LAH has told us it doesnt have any documentation, so it doesnt know the 
amount advanced to Mr H. The loan amount in the table is actually the total amount Mr H 
wouldve needed to have repaid LAH if he had repaid the loan over the intended term of 47 
weeks. I can say this because LAH has provided information to say the loan was due to run 
for 47 weeks and cost £16 per week.  
Following Mr Hs complaint, LAH issued its final response letter (FRL) on 15 June 2021. The 
FRL explained Mr H had made his complaint too late about all his loans  so they were time 
barred. As a result, LAH didnt investigate what happened at the time these loans were 
advanced. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. The assessment was split into two 
parts. 
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded the Financial Ombudsman could investigate all of 
Mr Hs loans. This is because while the loans had been complained about more than six 
years after the event. The adjudicator hadnt seen anything to make him think Mr H had 
complaint more than three years since he was or ought to have been aware, he could 
complain. 
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether LAH had done anything wrong when 
it advanced these loans. He concluded that the checks for loan one went far enough. But for 
loan two, LAH couldve carried out further checks but he didnt have any information from 
Mr H to show him what his financial position was at the time. 
LAH didnt respond to either the adjudicators assessment or the ombudsman referral letters. 
Mr H (through his representative) didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. He said - 
verbatim; 
The amount i got was 200.00 the reason I don't agree is in that moans at home made 
me back back nearly 1000 pound for a 200.00 loan"
The adjudicator responded to say that if Mr H had a copy of the loan agreement he should 
provide it, because LAH has told us the total repayment for the first loan was £320. 
Mr Hs representative told the Financial Ombudsman there was no further information he 
could provide. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look into this complaint
LAH has said that the Financial Ombudsman shouldnt investigate Mr Hs complaint because 
it considers the loans time barred.  So, it considers the loans outside of our jurisdiction. 
Having looked at everything, I think we do have jurisdiction to consider the loans for broadly 
the same reasons as the adjudicator. However, in any event, I dont think the complaint 
about these loans should be successful and Ive explained why below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mr Hs complaint.
It is worth noting that due to the passage of time since these loans were advanced LAH 
some of the original documentation isnt available, I dont consider this to be unreasonable. 
So, while, Ive considered what Mr H says in response to the adjudicators assessment, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that he needed to repay close to £1,000 for the first loan. 
All I can say is that Mr H borrowed £200 and was due to make 32 weekly repayments of 
£10, meaning hed have to repay LAH a total of £320 for loan one. So, for this loan, Mr H 
wasnt due to repay back a £1,000. 
However, the total amount, Mr H wouldve needed to repay LAH if both loans had run to term 
wouldve been £1,072. This is the total cost of credit of both loans added together and this 
includes the capital and interest that Mr H agreed to repay. But I cant uphold the case solely 
because Mr H is unhappy about the total amount, he was due to repay LAH. 
Loan 1
LAH only has limited information about both of these loans. But I know, from experience of 
working these sorts of cases that it is likely LAH wouldve gathered information from Mr H 
about his income and expenditure before it advanced this loan. Unfortunately, the 
information Mr H may have declared is no longer available so I dont know what Mr H may or 
may not have told LAH. 
But given for loan1, Mr H was due to repay £10 per week, I think its likely that the checks 
LAH carried out were proportionate and so it didnt need to do any more before granting this 
loan. So, Im not upholding his complaint about loan1. 
Loan 2
For loan2, Mr H wouldve been due to pay LAH £26 per week, this is because loan one was 
still outstanding. 
Its possible, like the adjudicator said that further checks may have needed to have been 
done before LAH approved this loan, given that Mr H was making a commitment for another 
47 weeks. However, it is arguable, that even with the increased loan amount that the checks 
LAH likely carried out were proportionate. 
But even if I though LAH needed to gain a complete understanding of Mr Hs financial 
position before it advanced this loan that still doesnt mean Mr Hs complaint can be upheld. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold loan two, I have to be
satisfied that not only LAH didnt carry out proportionate checks, but had it carried out
further checks it wouldve likely discovered that Mr H couldnt afford this loan.Mr H hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of his bank statements or his 
credit report. So, I dont know what further checks may have highlighted about his financial 
situation at the time this loan was approved and I therefore cant conclude LAH may have 
done something wrong when it advanced this loan. 
Finally, I dont think Mr Hs loan activity was enough to suggest he had become reliant
on these loans. The loan amounts had, likely only slightly increased and Mr H hadnt been 
indebted to LAH for very long So, I agree with the adjudicator that there were no obvious 
signs that LAH ought to have picked up to suggest this loan was unsustainable for Mr H.
Looking at everything together, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest LAH
shouldnt have lent loan two. So, Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint about either of 
his loans. 
I appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed by the decision Ive reached but I hope my 
explanation has been useful for him to understand why I have concluded the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman