DRN-3041011
The complaint
Mr N complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) failed to honour a claim he 
brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr N is represented by 
a claims management company. When I refer to things said or done by Mr N in relation to 
the complaint then this should be taken to include things said or done by his claims 
management company also.
What happened
The background to the matter is well known to all parties so I will summarise only briefly:
Mr N had a membership with a holiday club I will call D. He met with another 
company, R, in June 2017. R said it would arrange for Mr N to be released from his 
membership with D, and claim compensation for him for the mis-selling of the 
membership.
Mr N entered a contract with R for the above services. He was expected to pay a 
total of £4,794 and provided his HSBC credit card details to R, but was informed 
another companys name would appear on his statement. Mr N made two payments 
on his credit card to a company Ill call MRL: £1,438 on 10 June 2017, and £3,356 
on 23 June 2017. The contract guaranteed that R would achieve the release of Mr N 
from his membership within 12 months of 10 June 2017.
R failed to arrange for Mr N to be released from his membership with D, and 
subsequently went into liquidation in May 2018. Mr N has continued to be pursued by 
D for regular maintenance payments.
Mr N brought a claim against HSBC under section 75 of the CCA in April 2019, via 
his claims management company.
HSBC looked into the matter and didnt agree Mr N had a valid claim under section 
75 of the CCA. It said that because he had paid MRL, and not R, the necessary 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement wasnt in place for him to be able to 
make a claim. Mr N was unhappy with this decision and complained, but HSBC 
would not change its position.
Mr N referred his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked into 
it. He concluded HSBC had been right to say Mr N did not have a valid claim under 
section 75 of the CCA, because MRL had taken the credit card payments instead of 
R. Our investigator looked into whether there were any exceptions which meant this 
might not matter, but he couldnt find any. He also thought about whether HSBC 
should have charged back the credit card transactions but concluded the bank had 
been out of time to do so at the point it had been made aware of the issue.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone makes a purchase using the facilities offered by their bank or credit card 
company, and something goes wrong with that purchase, theres no general obligation for 
them to provide a refund. However, there are some mechanisms via which they can 
assist. If a credit card has been used, as in this case, Section 75 of the CCA gives a legal 
right to the account holder to claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches 
of contract or misrepresentations by the supplier, so long as certain technical criteria have 
been met.
If any type of card has been used (debit, credit or pre-paid), the card issuer can use the 
dispute resolution service administered by the card schemes in order to claim back the 
money paid on the card. This can be done only in certain scenarios and only so long as 
the dispute fits within the rules set out by the card scheme. This includes scenarios where 
goods or services have not been received, and the process of disputing payments in this 
way is generally known as a chargeback. Although a consumer cannot insist that their 
card issuer attempts a chargeback, I would expect the issuer to attempt one if there was a 
reasonable prospect of the process succeeding, and to conduct the chargeback process 
in a competent way, free of errors.
The Section 75 claim
I dont think Mr N had a valid section 75 claim against HSBC for essentially the same 
reasons our investigator explained. I dont think his claim meets one of the technical 
criteria I referred to above.
The criterion in question is the requirement for there to be a DCS agreement in place. The 
simplest explanation of this is, is that when someone makes a payment on their credit 
card, in order to be able to make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they 
need to have used the credit card to pay the same company they say misrepresented 
something to them, or breached its contract with them. Mr N didnt pay R, which is the 
company he has a problem with. Instead, his credit card payments went to MRL.
There are some exceptions to this general rule. The first exception occurs where the 
company which is responsible for the breach or misrepresentation (the supplier) is an 
associate of the company which received the credit card payment (the payee), at the 
time the payment is made. This doesnt mean an associate in the everyday sense of being 
linked in some way or another; the companies have to be associates according to a very 
specific definition which is set out in section 184 of the CCA.
According to section 184 of the CCA, in order for companies to be associates they need 
to be controlled by the same people, or by people who are themselves associates of one 
another. People are associates of one another if they are relatives, or if they are in 
partnership (for example, being directors together at another company). A person would 
be in control of a company if they are a person whose instructions will normally be 
followed by the officers of the company, or if they are entitled to exercise a third or more 
of voting power at any general meeting of the company. In general I would view a 
company director or majority shareholder to fall into these categories. Being based at the 
same or a similar business address, as Mr N has claimed, would not be enough to make 
two companies associates.
Ive carefully considered whether R and MRL were associates at the time of Mr Ns credit card payment, by checking publicly available information about the companies. A Mr K 
was a controller of R between 1 April 2016 and 1 December 2016, while an associate of 
his (a Mr U) controlled MRL. This means the companies themselves were associates 
during this time window. Mr K gave up his shareholding in R from 1 December 2016 and I 
cannot see that he was a controller of the company from that point on. Mr N has cast 
some doubts on the Companies House filings which show Mr K giving up his shares on 1 
December 2016. The records were filed late and Mr N thinks Mr K controlled R for longer 
than the records say. But I think this is speculative without further evidence that the 
records filed with Companies House are not an accurate representation of what happened 
and when. In the absence of convincing evidence to the contrary, I conclude Mr K was no 
longer a controller of R from 1 December 2016.
I note there is also an outstanding debenture in Mr Ks favour, granted by R, dating back 
to January 2016. Mr N has suggested this means he controls the company. I dont agree. 
All this shows shows is that Mr K had agreed to lend money to R on a secured basis and 
this has not yet been repaid.
Because Mr Ns credit card payments were made outside of the window in 
which R and MRL were associates, this means the exception doesnt apply in 
his case.
There is another exception which was identified in the case of Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB). The case concerned a firm of solicitors who had a motor 
trader as a client. The solicitors took credit card payments from customers of the motor 
trader, which had no facility to take such payments itself, as deposits for cars which the 
customers had ordered. The court found that the contractual arrangements between the 
motor trader and the solicitors were adequate to link the motor trader to the card scheme 
through the transactions processed via the solicitors credit card facilities, and therefore 
mean there was a DCS agreement in place.
The judge observed in the Alfred Truman case that the above conclusion couldnt be 
applied in all cases as a general principle, and that there were problems with establishing 
where the line should be drawn between scenarios where the supplier could be linked to 
the card scheme, and where things were too tenuous to be able to draw this conclusion. 
The judge noted that the problem would need to be resolved on a case by case basis, and 
that the precise contractual arrangements between the parties would determine whether 
the creditor had liability under section 75.
A later case in the County Court, Marshall v. Retail Installation Services Ltd [2016], 
clarified that in the absence of knowledge of the precise contractual arrangements 
between the company which was meant to supply the services or goods under the 
contract, and the payee, that the involvement of the payee in the provision of the goods 
or services could be enough to link the supplier to the card scheme and for a DCS 
agreement to exist.
In Mr Ns case, not much is known about the precise contractual arrangements between 
R, which was the supplier of the services, and MRL, which was the payee. Its clear that 
MRL took payments for Rs customers and that this was an established practice, as Ive 
seen evidence that R required its salespeople to tell customers that the name of MRL or 
another company might appear on their statements.
There is some evidence that a company in the group to which MRL belonged, acted as 
Rs accountants. I have tried to find out more from this group of companies, and the 
relevant liquidators. Unfortunately, I have not received information which helps to clarify 
what the arrangements were between the companies. In Alfred Truman the court had a much more complete picture of the nature of the arrangements between the parties and 
had the benefit of direct evidence from the payee. Here I dont have nearly as much 
information and I feel unable to conclude that R was linked to the card scheme via its 
arrangements with MRL, on the evidence available to me.
Ive considered whether the case of Marshall might be applicable to Mr Ns case, but Ive 
seen no evidence that it would be, because it doesnt appear MRL was involved in the 
provision of the timeshare release or compensation claim services Mr N had contracted 
with R for.
In light of the above, I conclude there was no valid DCS agreement in place to allow 
Mr N to make a section 75 claim against HSBC. I therefore dont think the bank was 
wrong to reject his claim. Ive thought about the arguments Mr Ns representatives have 
raised in response to our investigators assessment, but they dont change my view.
Chargeback
Mr Ns representatives havent challenged our investigators opinion on whether or not 
it was possible for HSBC to have attempted a chargeback on either of the credit card 
transactions.
I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached on this question. The maximum 
length of time to dispute a transaction via the relevant card scheme, for services which 
have not been received, is 540 days from the date of the transaction. 
This means Mr N would have needed to bring the issue to the attention of HSBC by 15 
December 2018. He did not do so until a few months later, so the bank did not treat him 
unfairly by not attempting to obtain a refund via this route.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not think HSBC treated Mr N unfairly by refusing to 
reimburse him. So I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman