DRN-1352609
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited sold his debt to a third party and recorded a 
default without telling him beforehand.  
What happened
Mr W took out a £3,000 loan with Madison around January 2019. The loan was arranged to 
run for a 24-month term and Mr W was due to pay £292.57 each month. 
Between February and September 2019, Mr W was unable to make all his repayments. 
During this period, he contacted Madison because he was unable to pay and set up a few 
different repayment plans. The most recent plan was arranged to run from July  September 
2019, during which Mr W agreed to pay £100 each month.
In September, Madison decided to register a default and sell the loan account to a third 
party. Mr W complained because Madison didnt tell him it was planning to do this. Mr W 
says hed told Madison that the repayment plan was temporary and that he expected some 
money in September, which would enable him to catch up with his loan repayments. 
Madison explained that the terms and conditions of Mr Ws loan agreement allow it to sell 
the debt, without notice, at any time. Madison added that it was a commercial decision to sell 
the debt and that the amount Mr W owes hasnt changed as a result of the third party taking 
ownership of his loan. 
Mr W asked this service to step in. Our investigator didnt think that Madison had acted 
unfairly. She explained that Madison sent default notices to Mr W after he continued to miss 
his repayments and that it was entitled to sell the debt as per the terms and conditions. The 
investigator also acknowledged that Madison had taken steps to help Mr W with his 
repayments.
Mr W disagreed saying he didnt receive the default notices and doesnt understand why 
Madison agreed to the repayment plans if it was going to default the account and sell the 
debt. He told our investigator that hed planned to clear the arrears by the end of September, 
but the investigator wasnt persuaded by this given Mr Cs history of missed repayments. Mr 
W mentioned hed been told that collection procedures would continue, but he says he didnt 
understand what Madison meant when it said this. Hes also concerned about a payment 
being taken in September, despite the debt already having been sold.
Remaining unhappy, Mr W asked for a review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws loan agreement say we may transfer our rights or 
duties under this agreement to another person or entity. Essentially, the terms say that 
Madison can transfer ownership of the debt to a third party. So, Im satisfied that Madison acted in line with the terms when it sold Mr Ws loan. The terms explain that Mr Ws rights 
would not be affected and Madison says the sale didnt affect the balance he owes. So, I 
dont think Mr W wouldve been negatively affected by the sale.
Mr Ws unhappy that Madison didnt give him prior notice that it was planning to sell the debt. 
But theres nothing in the terms that say it needed to, so I wouldnt expect Madison to have 
notified Mr W beforehand. 
Mr W says he didnt know that Madison would record a default despite him being on a 
repayment plan. Ive seen copies of the default notices Madison sent in July and August 
2019  both advise Mr W of his arrears, the steps he needed to take, and the action Madison 
could take to recover the balance he owes. Mr W says he didnt receive these notices. 
Although I cant say for certain that he did, the letters are correctly addressed and Madison 
says it sent them. Mr W also hasnt reported any other postal issues around that time. So I 
think its likely that he did receive both default notices.
Mr Ws loan account had been in arrears since around March 2019. Between then and 
September, his repayments were either made late or not made at all. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
Madison appears to have registered the default once Mr W was around six months behind 
with his repayments  the default letter Madison sent in August advises Mr W that his 
arrears amounted to £1,555.42. So I cant say that Madison acted unfairly by registering the 
default when it did.
Mr W says he told Madison that he expected refunds on loans and a bonus payment in 
September, so he wouldve been able to clear his arrears at the end of that month. Having 
listened to the calls Mr W had with Madison, I can see that he did mention that hes 
expecting refunds from other lenders. It doesnt appear as though he talked about receiving 
a bonus payment. But this doesnt make a difference to my opinion. By September, Mr W 
was around six months in arrears  so Madison acted fairly when it registered the default. 
Moreover, it seems Mr W mentioned in an earlier call that he planned to clear the arrears or 
pay a lump sum at the end of August. It seems he was unable to carry this out, so I dont 
think its unreasonable that Madison moved forward with the default and the sale despite Mr 
W making this pledge a second time. 
Mr W says he didnt understand what Madison meant when it told him about collection 
procedures over the phone. Ive listened to the calls and that phrase was mentioned several 
times. Mr W thinks Madison shouldve explained what was meant by collection procedures 
in more detail. I agree that this phrase alone isnt very clear. But Mr W didnt tell Madison 
that he didnt understand, nor did he ask for more information. So I wouldnt reasonably 
expect Madison to have known that Mr W needed clarity on what it meant by this. 
Even if I thought differently, it doesnt make a difference to my view. I say this because, even 
if Madison did provide more detail on what it meant by 'collection procedures', it doesn't 
make a difference to the fact that Mr W was in arrears for around six months when Madison 
chose to sell the debt and register the default. The procedure would've been applied 
regardless and I think it was applied fairly in this instance. 
Mr W is concerned about the payment he made in September. He says Madison shouldnt 
have accepted this payment at the time given it had already sold the debt. Ive queried this 
with Madison, and it told me that the payment was made whilst the sale of the debt was taking place and it was during the transition period. Madison says it had an agreement in 
place with the third party to continue taking payments during the transition period  any 
payments would be passed on to the third party.
I acknowledge Mr Ws concern, but I dont think he lost out when Madison took this payment 
and I dont think it acted unfairly by doing so. So I wont be asking Madison to do anything 
different in relation to this. 
In summary, Madison didnt treat Mr W unfairly when it sold his debt to a third party and 
registered a default against his name. I wont be instructing Madison to do anything in 
relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman