DRN-2007758
 
The complaint
Mr V believes his bank, Santander UK Plc has given him misleading information about 
withdrawing consent for payments.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019 Mr V contacted Santander seeking information about recurring 
payments. It seems that his questions may have been prompted by a series of small 
recurring card payments which had been made to a merchant which I'll call S. Mr V was 
however adamant that he wasn't disputing any specific payments, whether to S or anyone 
else. Rather, he wanted to know whether, having given his consent for a payment from his 
account, he could then withdraw that consent. 
Santander said that it couldn't stop a card payment once it had been made. Mr V 
disputed that - although he didn't say that there was any particular payment or payments that 
he wanted to stop. He had cancelled his arrangement with S but didn't want Santander to 
look into the payments to it. 
Mr V wasn't happy with the way Santander dealt with his enquiries, and he referred the 
matter to this service. In particular, he didn't feel that Santander had handled his questions 
about withdrawal of consent to payments very well.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She didn't consider that Santander 
had given misleading information to Mr V; in fact, it hadn't said very much in answer to his 
general questions, and he hadn't raised any issues about specific payments. In the 
circumstances, she didn't feel that Santander could have done very much more.
Mr V didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service can't investigate every complaint that's referred to it. For example, we can only 
look at complaints about the provision of or failure to provide financial services and alleging 
financial loss or material distress or inconvenience. I think it's arguable that Mr V's complaint 
isn't really about a failure to provide a financial service; rather, it's about what he sees as the 
bank's failure to provide general advice about financial services. Also, it's not really clear 
what, if any, material distress or inconvenience he's suffered. Be that as it may, it appears 
that there may be some link with payments made from his account, and so I've taken the 
view that this service does have the power to look at this complaint. 
I do however broadly agree with the investigator's findings in this case. Mr V wanted 
Santander to provide him with definitive guidance on whether or not it was possible to withdraw consent for a payment once it had been given. In answer to that, Santander 
could only give a very general answer - that it would not usually be possible. Mr V didn't 
however want to discuss any particular set of circumstances (and certainly not one 
concerning any actual payments), and so I think it was reasonable for the bank to provide no 
more than the general information it gave to Mr V. That information didn't provide the full 
picture (as the bank explained it didn't), but it wasn't inaccurate or misleading. 
I wouldn't usually expect a bank to give advice of the type that Mr V requested here, still less 
where the reason for seeking that advice isn't clear. In any event, the answer to Mr V's query 
isn't quite as straightforward as he believes it should be; for that reason, I think it was 
reasonable for Santander to decline his request for a definitive answer. I think it dealt with 
his questions in a fair manner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve 
Mr V's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman