DRN-1848613
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled his concerns when his 
credit card account was used for fraudulent purposes. He's been left with an outstanding 
debt and with a fraud marker against his name. 
What happened
Mr K says that someone made payments totalling over £5,000 to his credit card account. 
He's described that person as a friend, but also as a friend of a friend. The following day Mr 
K used his card to make payments of more than £3,000 for the same person; a further 
payment was declined.
Tesco was later told that the payments made to Mr K's credit card account were fraudulent; 
that is, the holders of the accounts from which they were made hadn't authorised them. 
Tesco refunded the payments and debited Mr K's account, leaving a balance due. It also 
closed the account and placed a CIFAS marker against Mr K's name; CIFAS is the UK's 
fraud alert service. 
Mr K contacted Tesco to say he didn't think this was fair. Whilst he acknowledged that he'd 
made the card payments, he said he'd been forced into doing so and had been tricked into 
believing the payments to his card account were genuine. He referred the  matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it.
The investigator didn't think though that Tesco had treated Mr K unfairly. He noted that Mr K 
hadn't been consistent in what he'd said about the payments to his credit card account, but 
he had said that he made the card payments. He thought that Tesco had sufficient evidence 
to report the matter to the police, and so was within its rights to place the fraud marker 
against Mr K's name. 
Mr K didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review them. He 
added that payments had been taken from the card account but that goods hadn't been 
supplied. He thought Tesco or this service should have taken that up with the merchants 
involved.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I'll start with the payments made using Mr K's credit card. He says that he made them, so I'm 
satisfied that Tesco was entitled to debit his account and look to him to make payment. 
That's the case, whatever the circumstances in which the credits to the account were made. 
Mr K said after he'd acknowledged making the payments that someone had forced him to do 
so. He hasn't provided any detail, however, and that seems inconsistent with his claim that he thought the payments into the account were genuine. And I note too that this isn't what he 
told Tesco when he first discussed what had happened.
I turn then to the payments into the account, which led to Tesco placing a CIFAS marker 
against Mr K's name. I'm satisfied that they were, as Tesco says, fraudulent. Mr K says he 
didn't know that. Initially, he said that he'd made the payments; if that were the case, though, 
he would have known they weren't genuine. It wasn't until some three months later that Mr K 
suggested that someone else had made the payments.
Mr K told this service that a friend's family member needed to make payments from 
overseas and could only do so by making payments to a credit card. His friend didn't have a 
credit card and asked Mr K to help. Mr K said he offered to pay his friend, but he instead 
forced Mr K to use the card to make payments. I don't find this explanation 
particularly plausible. Mr K hasn't sought to explain why a payment from an individual 
overseas could only be made to a credit card account, or how he could then transfer that 
payment to his friend. 
It may be that Mr K didn't understand exactly how his account was to be used, but in my 
view he must have known rather more than he has told Tesco or this service. I accept too 
that Mr K may not have benefited from what happened, but he hasn't been at all consistent 
in his account of events. In the circumstances, I think that Tesco was justified in placing a 
CIFAS marker against his name. 
Mr K is unhappy too that Tesco closed his account. It is usually for financial institutions to 
decide whether they want to provide - or to continue to provide - services to individuals. In 
my view, therefore, Tesco was within its rights to decide that it no longer wanted Mr K as a 
customer.
I note what Mr K has now said about a possible dispute with one or more of the merchants 
who took the card payments. Again, that wasn't something he mentioned at the outset. 
However, as the investigator noted, it mat be something that he can take up with the 
merchants concerned - at least in the first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr K's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman