DRN-4269290
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy because Santander UK Plc declined her disputed transaction claim.
What happened
In May 2022 Miss R purchased a train ticket and a flight using her Santander debit card. The 
price of the train ticket was £225.20 and the cost of the flight was £835.93.
The flight was cancelled. Miss R ended up having to pay for another flight to get home.
Miss R says that she contacted Santander to raise a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and was advised that she couldnt raise a section 75 claim 
because the payment wasnt made on a credit card.
Miss R says she then spoke to a trade association for tour operators who advised her to get 
back in touch with the bank.
In March 2023 Miss R contacted Santander again and asked to raise a chargeback. By this 
time, more than 120 days had passed. Santander advised Miss R that the chargeback was 
out of time.
Miss R complained to Santander. She was unhappy that she hadnt been advised about a 
chargeback when she first contacted the bank about the section 75 claim.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had reviewed its telephone records going 
back to March 2022 but had no record of Miss R contacting it about a section 75 claim.
Miss R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said shed reviewed the call recordings 
provided by Santander during 2022 and 2023 and couldnt find any evidence that Miss R had 
raised a dispute relating to the transactions within 120 days of the service being received.
Miss R didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has said that she first contacted Santander about the transaction in or around May 
2022. Ive listened to all the calls provided by Santander but there arent any calls from 
around May 2022 in which Miss R contacted Santander about a section 75 claim.
Ive listened to a call dated March 2023 in which Miss R asked to raise a chargeback. During 
the call, Santander advised Miss R that because more than 120 days had passed since the 
cancelled flight, it wasnt possible to open a chargeback dispute.
Having listened to the calls, I havent found any evidence to suggest that Miss R asked to 
raise a chargeback dispute within the relevant timescale. And I havent found any evidence 
to suggest that Miss R contacted Santander about a section 75 claim in 2022.  So I cant say 
that Santander should have brought the possibility of a chargeback claim to her attention at 
an earlier time.
Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made an error here. The advice it gave to Miss R about 
the 120 day time period for chargeback claims was correct.
Even if Miss R had contacted Santander about a section 75 claim (and as Ive already said, 
Ive found no evidence that she did), theres no grounds for a section 75 claim in these 
circumstances because Miss R paid for the tickets with a debit card. Section 75 can only be 
considered where goods or services have been purchased using a credit card.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Santander has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here`.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman