DRN-2954261
The complaint
O complains that it lost out on interest after TSB Bank plc didnt notify it of a reduction in 
interest rate on its business savings account. 
What happened
In May 2020 O opened a business savings account with TSB. At the time of opening the 
account the interest rate was 1.00% on balances above £4,999.99. Soon after opening the 
account O made deposits into the account taking the balance above £4,999.99 and the 
balance generally remained above this level in the following months. 
In December 2020 O received an email from TSB notifying it of an interest rate change from 
0.50% to 0.30%. O says it didnt know that the interest rate at the time was 0.50% and had 
thought the rate was still the same as when it had opened the account. Unhappy with this O 
complained to TSB. 
TSB responded and said it hadnt made a mistake so wouldnt be upholding the complaint. 
TSB says it needed to give 60 days notification of an interest rate change. But at the time 
the notification went out O hadnt opened the account. TSB says any change in interest rate 
would have been highlighted on the website when O applied for the business savings 
account. 
TSB also says the interest rate change would have been reflected on its statements. So felt 
O should have been aware of the rate change. TSB decided to refund the difference in 
interest rate between 1 July 2020 and 20 September 2020. O remained unhappy so referred 
the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Os complaint but didnt think TSB had done anything substantially 
wrong so said TSB didnt need to do anything further. O disagreed with that view and said it 
hadnt been notified of the reduction in interest rate and didnt agree that the statements 
were enough to notify it of the change. So the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
There isnt a dispute that TSB didnt send O a standalone notification of the interest rate 
reduction for July 2020. So, I need to be satisfied that any other notice given by TSB was 
reasonable and in line with any regulations that govern these situations. I can see our 
investigator has already provided these to O so I wont be repeating them here. 
TSB have said that at the time O opened the account the information would have been 
available on its website to explain what the interest rate would be from July 2020. TSB cant 
provide us with any evidence of what O would have actually seen during the process of 
opening the savings account, so I cant safely say that O would have been notified of the 
change of rate on the account from July 2020 when it opened the account. 
As Ive already mentioned there wasnt any other standalone notification provided to O, 
however O was sent statements which did highlight the interest rates applied to the saving 
account. On the statement sent out in July 2020 it sets out the rates of interest applied to Os 
account balance. It shows that from 22 June to 30 June a rate of 1.00% applied to Os 
balances above £4,999.99 and from 1 July to 19 July a rate of 0.50% applied to these 
balances. I considered if this information is satisfactory and Ive concluded that it is. 
O says the onus shouldnt be on it to look at the statements to be notified of a change in the 
interest rate and it assumed it would receive a notice of change from TSB. But I dont agree, 
this is because the regulations say that TSB needs to choose the medium of communication 
and in its terms TSB explains that it can tell a customer about a change by letter, email, 
text, statement, statement insert or messages or in any other way which is sent to you 
individually. So considering this I think the information on the statements was sufficient to 
notify O of the rate change and it was Os choice not to look at the detail in the statements.
The regulation also says TSB needs to provide reasonable notice of the reduction of the 
interest rate. There isnt a defined period of time that TSB needs to provide but TSBs terms 
state it will provide 60 days notice. So I think it would have been reasonable for TSB to 
provide O with this length of notice of change from the date of the statement. In the final 
response I can see TSB have already refunded the difference for this period, so it follows 
that I dont think TSB need to do anything further.   
I realise O will be disappointed with my decision, but Im not satisfied TSB treated O unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Os complaint about TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman