DRN-1394003
The complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about the way her accounts have been managed..
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss C says she sent RBS correspondence asking for her father to be able to act on 
her behalf. But RBS has searched its records and says it cannot locate them and 
theres no proof of receipt. Miss C says the bank has accepted it received the letters. 
Whether or not RBS received the correspondence it isnt obliged to immediately 
engage with Miss Cs representative. RBS says to do so it needed a third party 
mandate authorising Miss Cs representative to act on her behalf. Thats a matter for 
the bank to decide. And we cant tell RBS what processes and policies it should 
adopt to ensure security. So, its fair for RBS not to accept instructions from a third 
party until it received a completed mandate. RBS also tried unsuccessfully to contact 
Miss C about this.
RBS accepts its service in branch couldve been better when Miss Cs representative 
went there. Miss C would like compensation for this but we can only make an award 
for distress and inconvenience suffered by the account holder, not a third party.
I note RBS has provided the information Miss C and her representative wanted about 
her investment accounts allowing them to deal with them.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience in 
dealing with a complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend 
theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from 
this approach in this case.
 
For these reasons, although I recognise Miss Cs frustration, I do not think I can fairly or 
reasonably require RBS to do anything more including paying her any compensation. And I 
do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman