DRN-3889604
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus closed his
account and thinks they have made a discriminatory decision.
What happened
In October 2020, Cashplus restricted Mr Os account while they carried out a review. Around
five days later, they decided to close Mr Os account and gave him 60 days notice as per
the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr O wanted to know why Cashplus closed his account  and specifically why he couldnt
use the account to transfer money to his family in Nigeria through a third-party platform. So,
he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Cashplus were entitled to review Mr Os account and was satisfied
theyd given sufficient notice when closing it. However, she wasnt satisfied their reasons for
closure was fair - so she asked them to pay £100 compensation.
Cashplus asked for an ombudsman to review things. In summary, they confirmed their
website states that they only accept international payments from limited countries  and
therefore it stands to reason that they also dont have the risk appetite for outbound
payments made to these countries either.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
In an attempt to resolve things, I asked Cashplus for a copy of their risk policy document.
Cashplus sent the relevant excerpt of the internal document relating to international
payments.
In December 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Cashplus are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and
regulatory obligations. Theyre are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an
existing relationship. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts 
either in full or partially while they carry out their review.
It appears Cashplus asked Mr O questions relating to the account activity  and Mr O
rightfully let them know he sometimes uses the account to send money to his family in
Nigeria  through a third-party platform. It was around five days later, Cashplus made the
decision to close Mr Os account; so, Im pleased Cashplus were proactive in their review.
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Cashplus was complying with their legal and
regulatory obligations when it reviewed Mr Os account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done
anything wrong.
Cashplus is entitled to close an account with Mr O, just as Mr O is entitled to close his
account with Cashplus. But before Cashplus closes an account, they must do so in a way
which is fair and complies with the terms and conditions of the account. The terms and
conditions of the account say that Cashplus could close the account by giving 60 days
notice. Cashplus have done this so Im satisfied theyve complied with this part.
Ive then gone on to consider whether Cashplus reason for closure was fair. I appreciate
theyre entitled to set their own policies and part of that will form their risk criteria. Its not in
my remit to say what policies or risk appetite Cashplus should have in place. I can, however,
while considering the circumstances of individual complaints, decide whether I think
customers have been treated fairly.
Ive thought carefully about the wording on Cashplus website regarding international
payments. It clearly states that inbound transfers can only be accepted from limited countries
 and Im satisfied Nigeria isnt listed. However, the website doesnt make it clear where
customers can send money to  and whether or not theyre entitled to use a third-party
platform. In the circumstances of Mr Os case, I dont think its reasonable for Cashplus to
assume Mr O ought to have known he couldnt use a third-party platform provider to send
money to his family in Nigeria. If the website, or terms, made this point clear, Mr O may have
avoided using his Cashplus account for this purpose  and therefore could have avoided the
closure altogether. While I cant base my decision on what would have happened in
hindsight, Im not satisfied Cashplus has treated Mr O fairly because they didnt make their
policies on outbound transfers through another provider clear. Therefore, I consider £100
compensation to be reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I say that because
Mr O has experienced distress and inconvenience of having his account closed due to
innocent activities.
I appreciate Cashplus has shared information with me which is deemed to be commercially
sensitive. I wanted to let Mr O know that our rules allow us to receive evidence in
confidence, so while Ive considered this, I cant share the details with him directly. I
appreciate Mr O is concerned that Cashplus may have made a discriminatory decision when
closing his account. But Im afraid, I cant reasonably agree. Im satisfied Cashplus have a
risk policy in place  and theyre entitled to decide how their accounts operate. Whats
important to note here, however, is whether Mr O was aware he couldnt use the account in
the way he did. And based on everything Ive seen; I dont think Mr O did.
So, overall, I was satisfied Cashplus reviewed and closed Mr Os account in the way they 
should have  and so I wouldnt likely ask them to re-open it. And while I was aware 
Cashplus are entitled to decide their own risk appetite, I didnt think theyd demonstrated that 
Mr O would have been aware of the limitations linked to outbound payments with the final 
destination as Nigeria. So, to recognise the inconvenience, I suggested Cashplus to pay 
£100 compensation to Mr O.
Neither Cashplus, nor Mr O, responded to my provisional decision with any further evidence 
or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party raised further arguments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. In summary, Im satisfied Cashplus were entitled to review and close Mr Os 
account as the account activity fell outside of their risk appetite. But I dont think Mr O would 
have reasonably be aware of the account limitation, so I find Cashplus caused undue 
distress in the circumstances of this complaint. Therefore, Cashplus should pay Mr O 
compensation to recognise this distress and inconvenience.Putting things right
I find £100 compensation to be a suitable amount of compensation to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience this situation caused Mr O overall. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus should pay 
Mr O £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman