DRN-3012932
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Curtis Banks Limited didnt fulfil its responsibilities as 
administrators of their Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) causing them a financial loss.
Mr S1 has dealt with the complaint on behalf of them both so for ease Ill mainly refer to 
Mr S1 in the decision, but any references to his SIPP apply to Mr S2s SIPP as well. 
What happened
Mr S1 and his father Mr S2 each have a SIPP held with St Jamess Place (SJP). The main 
asset of their SIPPs are equal shares in a commercial property in their home city, purchased 
in January 2017, which was rented out to a tenant to provide income. Curtis Banks is the 
SIPP trustee recommended by SJP. The SIPPs took over the lease to the existing tenant 
(E) which was due to pay rent in quarterly instalments.  
In February 2020 Mr S1 decided to exercise the break clause and let the property to new 
tenants. At this point he was informed the tenant hadnt paid rent since September 2017, the 
arrears totalled around £56,000 and the tenant was in administration. Hed received no 
statements or notifications from Curtis Banks to alert him to the problem. So Mr S1 
complained to Curtis Banks. 
Curtis Banks admitted it hadnt undertaken all its administrative responsibilities, but it had 
issued invoices to the tenants in line with the agreement. And it pointed out Mr S1 and Mr S2 
not Curtis Banks, were responsible for ensuring the rent was paid and pursuing the tenant 
for the arrears. However it offered to refund just over £1,575 in fees from 2017, pay £500 for 
the distress and inconvenience, and because theyd failed to recharge the latest insurance 
premium to the tenant before it entered administration Curtis Banks also refunded just over 
£337 in respect of this. A follow up complaint was made in May 2020 about an invoice for 
£4,888 for rent arrears and insolvency costs. Curtis Banks did not agree to settle the invoice 
which it said was to be split between the SIPPs of Mr S1 and Mr S2. It issued a second final 
response letter reiterating the position of the first in respect of its responsibilities for the 
administration of the SIPP. 
Unhappy with this Mr S1 complained to this service. One of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint but she didnt uphold it. She agreed Curtis Banks could have provided a better 
service by making Mr S1 aware of the rent arrears sooner. But according to the SIPP terms 
and conditions it was Mr S1s responsibility to ensure the rent was being paid, and he could 
have requested SIPP statements from SJP. He was also liable for any legal costs incurred in 
pursuing the arrears. So she thought the offer already made by Curtis Banks was fair.
Mr S1 disagreed with her findings saying he didnt believe Curtis Banks had issued any 
invoices to the tenant. Curtis Banks provided copies of numerous invoices from the period 
January 2017 to October 2020, but Mr S1 was unhappy these hadnt been pursued and had 
been sent to the property address rather than Es head office. 
Overall he didnt feel Curtis Banks had fulfilled what he understood to be its obligations. And 
his IFA said in his experience Curtis Banks credit control department is responsible for 
pursuing outstanding rent, so it should have done so in this case. 
It came to light the IFA was referring to Curtis Banks updated terms and conditions from 
2020 in which they take a more active role in the property management whereas the 
applicable terms at the time (dated June 2017) set out that those responsibilities lie with Mr 
S1 and Mr S2. So the investigator didnt change her mind.
As agreement couldnt be reached its come to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Let me explain why.
Curtis Banks responsibilities
It seems from the outset there was a misunderstanding on the part of Mr S1 and Mr S2 
about their responsibilities in respect of the property held in their SIPPs. They believed 
Curtis Banks was responsible for the day to day administration for which it received a fee. 
The property was already let to an existing tenant, so in theory they had continuity of rental 
income. Void periods are one of the risks with commercial property, as set out in the Before 
you buy section of the SJP Property Guide provided to Mr S1 which reads While a regular 
stream of rent can help increase or maintain the fund value this is not guaranteed as tenants 
may vacate, fail or you may have to accept a lower rate of rent if the market has fallen.
The final bullet point in this section of the Guide reads: If you have difficulties with the 
tenants (i.e. if your tenant ceases trading or goes into administration or liquidation or 
breaches the terms of your lease) your Pension Scheme may incur considerable costs 
associated with the recovery of rent or may ultimately have to bear the loss of this income. 
This is precisely the scenario Mr S1 found himself in when E breached the terms of the lease 
by failing to pay the rent and ultimately went into administration. While Mr S1 might not have 
anticipated this would happen, I think he was put on notice that if it did happen his SIPP 
would bear any costs or loss arising. 
The booklet also explains the legal ownership of the property as follows: For a SIPP our 
trustee company will be the legal owner of the property [.] at the Land Registry. Please 
note we are not full property managers and will not be responsible for day to day 
maintenance [] although we will use reasonable endeavours to assist you with the 
management of the property. So I think this clearly explained Mr S1 was expected to take 
some role in the management of the property (or appoint someone to do so).  
Mr S1 and Mr S2s responsibilities 
The section relating to the Tenant explains it would be Mr S1s responsibility to source a 
suitable tenant and that the tenant due diligence would lie with him not Curtis Banks. This 
section goes on to say Your Pension Scheme will initially bear the costs of pursuing a 
tenant for rent arrears, this may include solicitors, valuers and bailiffs costs. 
Which I think meant that even if such costs were reclaimed from the tenant Mr S1s SIPP 
would need to pay them first.Curtis Banks has admitted it failed to administer Mr S1s SIPP in line with the section on 
Page 10 Rent Collection which explains that rent collection is undertaken by Curtis Banks 
and is covered by the annual property fee. It goes on Where the tenant fails to pay the rent 
demand and we have exhausted our internal rent chasing process, we will notify you as we 
will need to instigate the rent arrears collection process, for which there will be additional 
fees payable. As far as I am aware, Curtis Banks simply invoiced the tenants at the tenancy 
address, but didnt instigate the internal rent chasing process or notify Mr S1 of the arrears 
or any additional fees payable for this. So arguably Mr S1 was deprived of the opportunity to 
pursue the tenant for the arrears at an early stage. 
But Ive also considered the property completion letter dated 30 January 2017 issued by 
Curtis Banks. Its addressed to the IFA, but as it references Mr S1 and Mr S2 I think its 
reasonable to assume it was seen by them. It says Your clients [meaning Mr S1 and Mr S2] 
will be responsible for the day to day management of the Industrial Unit. It goes on to list 
some bullet points about this. The first one relates to the collection of rent which sets out that 
Curtis Banks will issue the rent invoices but will require the involvement of the property 
manager to ensure the rent is kept up to date. An asterisk then refers to a bold sentence 
which reads In order to ensure that the tenants are maintaining their rental payments please 
contact [SJP] to obtain a transaction summary of your SIPP bank account.  This was also 
emphasised in the SIPP Key Features document which explained that to find out how the 
investment is doing Mr S1 could obtain an up to date valuation from SJP or Curtis Banks
It doesnt appear Mr S1 appointed a property manager to carry out the administration of the 
property, or that he took an active role in its management himself. He pointed out in his 
complaint he wasnt provided with statements, but the completion letter and Key Features 
document say he had to actively request these from SJP, so it wasnt Curtis Banks 
responsibility to provide them. Im also aware he had online access to his SIPP bank 
account which he could access without referring to SJP or Curtis Banks. 
In the same letter, underneath the bullet points is a section headed Rental income stating 
that the SIPP had taken over the existing lease for E which was for a five-year term at 
£12,500 per year increasing to £25,000 per year from 1 May 2017, with the rent being paid 
in quarterly instalments. So only a few months after Mr S1s SIPP took over the property the 
rent was due to be doubled. Even if E had a good track record of paying rent up to that 
point, it wasnt certain the increase was affordable, and Curtis Banks had made clear it didnt 
carry out any due diligence or credit checks in respect of the tenant. It goes on to say that 
Mr S1 should ensure the tenant completed the enclosed direct debit mandate for the rent 
payments. This was because payments by direct debit would mean Curtis Banks would be 
notified if the tenant cancelled the payment (or it was returned unpaid) and warned that if 
any other payment method is used we cannot ensure that the rental payments are 
maintained. But it doesnt seem Mr S1 did require the tenant to pay by direct debit or check 
they could meet the increased rent obligations. 
Mr S1 provided an online statement of his SIPP account dated February 2021. This shows 
the balance in January 2017 after his half of the completion monies were deducted was just 
over £231,641. The first rent payment (50% split) of just over £8,907 was received in 
September 2017 and £3,125 was credited in June 2018, which is Mr S1s half share of the 
first quarterly rent instalment at the higher rent of £25,000 per year. No other rent payments 
were received until April 2020 which was after the complaint was made, and the balance of 
his SIPP account at that time had increased slightly to just over £232,805. Mr S1 should 
have expected his SIPP account to have received around £37,500 over the three years, 
being his half share of the rental income. So a quick glance at the account during that period 
would have alerted him that the rent payments had stopped. 
SIPP terms and conditions In support of Mr S1s position that Curtis Banks was responsible for pursuing the tenant for 
the arrears he referred to the terms and conditions, in particular section 11.5 covering 
property management. Point 11.5(k) says we (meaning Curtis Banks on behalf of SJP) will 
be responsible for invoicing and collecting rent and where required pursuing any late 
payments in accordance with normal commercial arrears processes. But these terms and 
conditions are dated December 2020, so came into effect three years after Mr S1 took over 
the property. The applicable terms and conditions were dated June 2017, and these only 
have nine sections with no section relating to property management. 
Mr S1 says he doesnt recall receiving any correspondence giving notice the terms and 
conditions were due to be changed. But Ive seen a letter to this effect dated 27 November 
2020 addressed to Mr S1 at his home address, which notes two main changes  one relating 
to interest on the SIPP account and the other to property management. Mr S1 clearly was in 
possession of the 2020 version as he quoted from it, so he mustve been aware they 
replaced an earlier one. And as the updated terms and conditions didnt exist at the time 
Mr S1s SIPP purchased the property, and the 2017 version (if he had this) is silent on this 
issue, his understanding of his responsibilities would be based on the January 2017 
completion letter. So Im satisfied he wasnt led to believe this would be handled by Curtis 
Banks until the new terms took effect from January 2021. There was a separate update to 
the terms and conditions advised to Mr S1 in May 2018, but this related to the new data 
processing requirements under the GDPR legislation not the property management. 
His IFA says in his experience Curtis Banks has a credit control department which handles 
rent arrears and provided examples of correspondence it had sent for other clients. Each 
case is considered on its particular merits and evidence. But in any event the dates of those 
letters show they were issued around the time Curtis Banks changed its terms and 
conditions to take a more active role in property management, so wouldnt reflect the 
situation as it had been prior to that. 
If he didnt know about the arrears, Im not aware why Mr S1 wanted to exercise the break 
clause and replace E with another tenant. I understand E has now been evicted, and the 
company is in the hands of liquidators. Its clear Curtis Banks could have done more to 
pursue E for the outstanding rent and alerted Mr S1 to the lack of rental income sooner, but I 
dont think the position would be much different. Im satisfied the rental invoices were sent to 
the tenant, but under the terms of the SIPP Mr S1 should have been overseeing the receipt 
of the rent which he couldve done by insisting the tenant pay by direct debit and by 
monitoring the income to his SIPP account. And once payments had been missed and 
arrears built up, any formal collection action would incur costs which would be charged to the 
SIPP accounts not covered by Curtis Banks. 
Summary 
I do understand S1s dissatisfaction with the situation particularly as its not certain the 
outstanding rent can be recovered. But Im not persuaded he was led to believe Curtis 
Banks was responsible for the rent collection as this wasnt included in the original terms and 
his responsibilities were made clear in the property completion letter. 
So overall I think the redress paid by Curtis Banks of a refund of fees, the insurance 
premium and £500 in respect of the distress and inconvenience is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint in the sense Curtis Banks Limited has done enough to put 
things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman