DRN-3200366
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society provided him with incorrect information 
about the interest rate on his account and didnt provide the service it should have while 
dealing with this issue.
What happened
Mr L visited a branch of Nationwide with a family member in August 2020 to ask if there was 
a better rate savings account. He says he was told that there was a savings account paying 
0.5% interest and so he transferred most of the money from his Individual Savings Account 
(ISA) keeping a small amount in the account to keep the ISA open. 
In April 2021, a call was arranged to review the interest rates and Mr L discovered his 
savings account had an interest rate of 0.05% not 0.5% as he had believed. Mr L raised a 
complaint that he was misadvised about the interest rate and had suffered a loss as the ISA 
he had transferred his money from had an interest rate of 0.25%. Mr L says he was told that 
his complaint would be upheld and that he would be sent a letter. However, he didnt receive 
a letter in the timeframe he had been told. He says he and the family member had to make 
several calls to try to understand the status of his complaint and call backs didnt take place 
as promised.
Nationwide issued a final response letter in May 2021. It acknowledged the service issues 
around the timing of the letter and missed call backs and paid Mr L £50 compensation 
because of this. It didnt on balance accept that a mistake had been made by its staff in 
August 2020 regarding the interest rate on the account and so didnt uphold this part of 
Mr Ls complaint.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He accepted that when visiting the branch in August 
2020, Mr L was wishing to have an account with a higher interest rate than the rate on his 
existing savings account and thought that Mr L should have been clearly told that he was 
transferring funds from an ISA paying 0.25% with tax-free status, to an account paying a 
lower interest rate without the tax benefits. He thought that had this been made clear, Mr L 
wouldnt have transferred his ISA funds and so would have continued to receive interest at 
0.25%. He thought that Mr L should be refunded the difference between the amount he 
received on his transferred funds and the 0.25% he would have received had the money 
remained in his ISA. He didnt think a refund was required for the funds that were already in 
the lower interest rate savings account. He also thought Mr L should be paid a further £100 
for the inconvenience he had been caused.
Nationwide didnt accept our investigators view. It said that it had a statement from the staff 
member that transferred the money for Mr L and that it had no reason to think she would 
have provided incorrect information. It noted that she wouldnt have been able to provide 
financial advice. It said on balance it didnt think there was enough to say that a mistake had 
been made regarding the account interest rates and it had compensated Mr L for the service 
issues raised about the timing of the final response letter and call back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based on its individual merits. I take relevant regulation into 
account but my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given the unique 
circumstances of the complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconsistent 
I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely 
happened taking into account the information provided and the wider circumstances 
surrounding the complaint.
Mr L had money in an ISA and was told in March 2020 that the interest rate would be 
reduced. In August 2020 he visited a branch with a family member and given the reduction in 
interest rates I find it reasonable to accept Mr Ls testimony that he asked about alternative 
savings accounts with higher rates of interest. 
Following a discussion in branch Mr L decided to move £40,500 from his ISA which had an 
interest rate of 0.25% to a different savings account. There is a difference in the information 
provided as Mr L says he thought the savings account he was transferring to was a new 
account whereas Nationwide has confirmed it was an existing savings account of Mr Ls. I 
appreciate the comments that have been made about the experience of the Nationwide staff 
member and her statements about how she would have provided information and checked 
the rates. However, on balance, I find it reasonable to accept that Mr L would only have 
transferred the money from his ISA had he believed that he was going to receive a higher 
rate of interest. Mr L was losing his tax benefits by making the transfer and while I agree that 
the Nationwide staff member wouldnt have been able to provide financial advice I think that 
it would have been reasonable to ensure that Mr L was clear on the rate of the interest 
before moving money to a lower interest rate account. 
Therefore, while I cannot say for certain what was said or how the misunderstanding arose, I 
find on balance it more likely than not that the information provided to Mr L wasnt clear such 
that he thought he was transferring money to a higher interest rate account. I find it 
reasonable to accept that had the information been clear, Mr L wouldnt have taken the 
action he did and would have kept his money in his ISA.
Because of the above, I agree with our investigator that Mr L should be refunded the 
difference between the amount he would have earned on his money had it remained in the 
ISA and the amount he did earn in the savings account he transferred to. I note Mr Ls 
comments about the rate of 0.5% being used for the calculation of loss but as this rate 
wasnt available, I cannot say that this issue has caused Mr L to miss out on a rate of 0.5% 
but rather that he would have received the 0.25% rate instead. I also note the comment 
about the money already in the savings account, but I think it fair to say the refund is only 
due on the money that was transferred from the ISA, being the higher interest rate account.
I also agree that this issue has caused Mr L inconvenience and while I note a payment of 
£50 was made for the final response letter timing and a call back, I think the overall issues 
surrounding the interest rate and the time spent dealing with this has caused Mr L distress 
and inconvenience. Therefore I agree that it is fair he is paid £100 to compensate for this. 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should:Ensure Mr L receives the difference in interest between what he has earned on the 
Limited Access Savings Account at 0.05% and what he could have earned on the 
ISA at 0.25%, had the £40,500 not been transferred out from it. The calculation 
should be from 12 August until the date of settlement, ensuring this is not reduced by 
any tax liability.
Pay Mr L £100 for the inconvenience this issue caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman