DRN-2595646
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service that he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when he 
went into branch.
What happened
Mr R went into the Mayfair branch of Barclays to change a standing order. Mr R initially went 
to the counter but was told by staff that he would need to go to self-service. However, when 
he went to self-service, he was then told that in order to change the standing order he would 
need to speak to someone at the counter.
When Mr R returned to the counter, he was told to take a seat and wait. Another customer 
then came in with two dogs that werent on a lead and one of these dogs ran up to Mr R and 
started licking him. Mr R is allergic to dogs, and so was very unhappy about this.
Mr R felt that the standard of service provided to him by Barclays was substandard and that 
the staff he spoke with had a poor attitude and didnt do enough to ensure that the other 
customers dogs were kept under control. So, Mr R made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Rs complaint, but they didnt feel that their staff had been rude to Mr 
R, or that they had provided a standard of service that could be considered substandard, 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. Our investigator noted that Mr Rs 
testimony of what had happened differed with what Barclays said had happened, and that on 
the information available there was no way to confirm whether one version of events was 
more likely to have happened than the other. Because of this, our investigator felt that they 
couldnt uphold this complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Its clear that Mr R feels strongly about this complaint, and I have considered the version of 
events that he has put forward. However, Barclays disagree with some of the things that Mr 
R says happened here, and they provide a different story as to what took place.
In circumstances where this service is presented with two sides of a dispute which contradict 
each other, and where there is no material evidence that might settle the argument, this 
service has to determine which of the two versions of events is more likely than not, on 
balance, to be the correct one, given all the information that we have available to us.
On some occasions the information available wont be sufficient to enable us to say with 
reasonable certainty that the story told by one party should be given more credence that the 
story told by the other party. And I think thats the case here.
This service has no reason to dispute the testimony of Mr R, but just as equally we also have 
no reason to dispute the version of events put forward by Barclays. So, its difficult for us to 
conclude that Barclays have acted improperly or unfairly toward Mr R here, because theres 
insufficient evidence for us to make that conclusion.
I have listened to the telephone call that Mr R had with our investigator, and I understand 
that Mr R feels frustrated by this, and also that he believes that if we were able to review 
CCTV footage from in the branch that this would confirm his version of events. I also 
understand that Mr R feels that Barclays have deleted this footage precisely because it 
would corroborate his side of this dispute, and I note his frustration at what he perceives as a 
lack of fairness here, given that this service wont take the step of accepting his version of 
events above and beyond accepting what Barclays are saying.
However, Im not convinced by his argument here with regard the CCTV footage, and I feel 
that Barclays explanation - that daily CCTV footage is only retained for a relatively short 
period of time, and that this is the reason the relevant footage has been deleted - is more 
likely than not, on balance, to be what has happened here, rather than a deliberate act by 
Barclays to have deleted the footage so that it cant be considered by this service.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr R had hoped for, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action here. I can appreciate 
that this might be frustrating for Mr R, but I hope he can understand, given what I have 
explained above, why I feel that this is a decision I have no option but to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman