DRN-4289717
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the liability decision made by Acromas Insurance Company Limited 
(Acromas) following a claim made by a third party on his car insurance policy.  
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Ws car was involved in an incident involving a third party (TP). Mr W was 
on a roundabout and wanted to take the second exit. He positioned himself on the inside 
right lane of the roundabout. The second exit included two lanes. As Mr W approached the 
second exit, he indicated left and began driving off the roundabout. Before Mr Ws car could 
enter the right hand lane of the second exit, the TP hit Mr Ws car. The TPs car scraped the 
left hand passenger door of Mr Ws car. The impact of this caused Mr Ws car to veer to the 
right hand side of the lane.
Mr W decided not to make a claim for the damage to his car under his car insurance policy. 
The TPs insurer contacted Acromas to claim for the damage to the TPs car. Mr W sent 
Acromas dashcam footage of the incident. This included footage from both the front and rear 
dashcam from Mr Ws car. Mr W sent this footage twice to Acromas before it was received. 
Mr W was told this would be a split settlement due to [Mr W] switching lanes coming off of 
roundabout. The case notes describing the incident recorded Both parties were off 
roundabout in lanes at time of incident but TP has tried to undertake our PH and hit just the 
rear doors N/S. This suggests the TP was very close when trying to undertake. Insisted he 
maintained same lane coming off roundabout and was in the right lane. Mr W complained 
about the handling of his claim, and Acromas response about how it would be settled. 
Acromas paid the TPs credit hire costs. On 24 May Acromas wrote to the TPI seeking 
reimbursement of these costs, and a response on liability. It was also explained Please be 
aware that our Recovery process is fully automated and therefore failure to respond will 
result in litigation. 
Acromas responded to Mr Ws complaint offering £150 for the poor service provided when 
misplacing the dashcam footage that had to be resent. Acromas also explained On 
reviewing the file, it was considered that the probability of recovery at best was 50/50A 
decision has been taken that we will not pursue the liability dispute through the courts as the 
likely outcome will remain the same. 
Unhappy with the response from Acromas, Mr W brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. Mr W said he was unhappy with the way his claim had been dealt with, and 
that costs had been paid to the TPI, despite the dashcam footage showing the TP at fault. 
The investigator found that Acromas hadnt acted reasonably when assessing Mr Ws claim. 
This was because it had failed to properly consider the footage provided by Mr W, and telling 
him that the claim would likely be settled on a 50/50 basis wasnt reasonable. The 
investigator recommended Acromas record the claim as non-fault, and reinstate Mr Ws no 
claims bonus to the position it wouldve been in had the claim be recorded as non-fault. 
Mr W accepted these findings. Acromas rejected these findings saying:
- Whilst we understand the Customer provided dashcam evidence and support that he 
was in the right lane for his intended exit, we also acknowledge that the TP was most 
likely in the incorrect lane, however the footage shows that the TP in the dashcam 
was ahead of our Customer on the roundabout and therefore, whilst our Customer 
was in his correct lane, it was his duty to be aware of traffic to his left.
-our commercial decision in such cases is to settle on the best possible terms,
rather than contest the matter in Court, particularly if the costs of litigation outweigh 
the sums or the evidence or an uncertainty of us being successful.
-I do not consider that we have acted unfairly in concluding that the best possible 
outcome would be 50/50, with both parties taking some responsibility.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Given Mr Ws strong assertions about what had happened, and conflicting evidence about 
who was responsible for the impact, I think there was a responsibility on Acromas to ensure 
that a fair investigation was carried out before communicating a decision on what would 
happen next. I accept that ultimately the decision to defend, or settle the claim was with 
Acromas to make. However wed expect an insurer to take reasonable steps to carry out a 
fair and thorough investigation, and to keep their customer updated on this. Acromas 
service fell short of this. 
Following notification from the TPs insurer, Ive seen that Acromas wrote to the TP saying 
Please be advised liability is in dispute as such we have not paid your outlay. Your insured 
has changed lanes into our insureds correctly proceeding vehicle.
 
Mr W was asked to provide his version of events, and supporting evidence. Mr W sent 
dashcam footage to Acromas of the incident as soon as he received notification of the TPIs 
claim. This included footage from both the front and rear dashcams from his car. The case 
notes show that the footage was reviewed by a Senior handler, and on this basis, a decision 
made that liability would be split 50/50. Mr W was informed of this in response to his 
complaint with an explanation that a decision has been taken that we will not pursue the 
liability dispute through the courts.
But I dont think Acromas did enough to challenge the TPs claim before deciding not to 
pursue liability. At the time of communicating this decision to Mr W, the TPI had yet to submit 
any evidence in support of their claim. Mr W had made strong representations about 
disputing liability, and had provided dashcam footage in the support of this. Before the 
incident with Mr W, there is evidence in the footage of the TP slightly swerving, and taking a 
sharp turn to pull into the lane Mr W was in. It doesnt appear that this has been referenced 
in the case notes by the Senior handler when referencing a split liability decision. 
Theres also no evidence of Acromas seeking a legal opinion on the claim before informing 
Mr W of their decision not to pursue the claim in Court. On balance, I think Mr W wouldve challenged Acromas decision, and requested Acromas explain their reasons, before 
reaching this decision on his claim.  
During our investigation Acromas informed this Service I have requested that the Dash Cam 
evidence is sent to one of our Solicitors we use in defence of cases, for a considered opinion 
on reasonable prospects, as a way forward only to conclude should a dispute be presented, 
that we utilise this option. This course of action is not usually taken until we have all the 
evidence available to us, as we do not have the TPIs position on this. 
However the explanation to Mr W didnt include any mention of referring the matter to 
solicitors for a considered opinion on reasonable prospects. Acromas say This course of 
action is not usually taken until we have all the evidence available to us, as we do not have 
the TPIs position on this. However its evident from the TPIs original submission sent to 
Acromas on 15 September 2022 that the TPI was disputing liability, and held Mr W at fault. 
So if a legal opinion was going to be sought, it wouldve been reasonable to do this earlier in 
the claim, and at least, before informing Mr W that Acromas will not pursue the liability 
dispute through the Courts.
The TPI has to date not responded to Acromas request for an update on liability. Acromas 
have explained that this has not actively been pursued as there are no losses to claim. So 
with the evidence available, I think its reasonable to reach an outcome that reflects whats 
happened on this claim, and what shouldve happened. Mr W doesnt feel a 50/50 split 
liability outcome reasonably reflects what happened when the TP hit his car. And having 
considered the evidence I dont think Acromas did enough to investigate these concerns 
before informing Mr W of the likely outcome of his claim. 
Its not for this service to determine what weight may have been placed on any evidence had 
this claim gone to the Court. I also accept that the outcome may still have been a fault claim 
being recorded against Mr W. But I think there was sufficient contradictory evidence 
(including Mr Ws testimony, the dashcam footage, and lack of response from the TP) which 
Acromas shouldve investigated before deciding not to pursue the claim any further in Court.  
I think a fair outcome for this complaint should reflect the fact that Acromas shouldve 
undertaken a more in-depth investigation before communicating their decision to Mr W about 
potentially settling the claim on a 50/50 basis. Acromas informed the TPI on 24 May that 
liability was being disputed, and the TPIs failure to respond will result in litigation. 
Sufficient time has passed in which we wouldve expected Acromas to have sought a legal 
opinion and informed Mr W of the outcome of this, and/or started litigation proceedings 
against the TPI on the issue of liability. As this hasnt happened, and theres no indication of 
when the question of liability will be concluded, I think its fair and reasonable for this Service 
to give direction on what Acromas must do to put things right.
 
Putting things right
With these considerations in mind, I think a fair outcome is for Acromas to:
1. Record Mr W claim as non-fault; and
2. Reinstate Mr Ws no claims bonus to the position it would be in had the claim been 
recorded as non-fault.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Acromas Insurance UK Plc must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman