DRN-2876868
The complaint
Mr C says that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly closed his bank account following 
several calls that took place.
What happened
Mr C called Nationwide on 10 July 2020 as his debit card wasnt working. The adviser he 
spoke to explained to him that his debit card had been blocked. She transferred his call to 
another department to be discussed further.
 
During the following calls, Nationwide explained that a recurring payment had been set up 
on Mr Cs account for £36. Mr C didnt recall authorising this payment so Nationwide 
cancelled it and told Mr C theyd send him a message to confirm this had been done. 
Mr C had questions about this. He wanted to understand how hed know if the third-party 
business attempted to take the payment from his account again. He said Nationwide didnt 
show any humility towards him, so he became agitated which caused him to raise his voice. 
When asked to calm down by another member of staff, Mr C got very upset and raised his 
voice more. He also used inappropriate and offensive language towards a member of staff. 
The calls escalated from here and Mr C continued to use offensive and discriminatory 
language when speaking to the complaints department and the specialist support team. 
Following this, Nationwide said their relationship with Mr C had broken down and they wrote 
to him, letting him know theyd be closing his bank account in line with the account terms 
and conditions. Mr C was unhappy with this and asked to escalate his complaint. Nationwide 
explained that they have a duty to protect their staff and they felt Mr Cs behaviour had gone 
beyond what they consider to be acceptable. 
Mr C didnt agree. He explained that he has autism and he said Nationwide caused him to 
behave this way under duress. He believes that there are two sides to the story and that 
Nationwide were abusive towards him. 
As Mr C remained unhappy with Nationwides decision, he referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint. She agreed that Nationwide has a duty to protect 
its staff, and she highlighted the offensive language that Mr C had used. But on 10 July 
2020, she said Nationwide hadnt done enough to support Mr C considering his disability and 
how it impacts him. In particular, she didnt think it was reasonable for Nationwide to close 
Mr Cs account based on this incident alone. She recommended Nationwide pay Mr C £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused him. 
Both Nationwide and Mr C agreed to this compensation. But Mr C felt there were further 
steps Nationwide needed to take in order to resolve his complaint. He said Nationwide 
should:
apologise to him 
reopen his bank account and give him a single point of contact 
learn from what had happened and arrange for him to speak to someone senior, like 
the CEO, about his experience to improve the service for other autistic customers 
better train their staff to de-escalate challenging situations  
send him a copy of their sticks and stones policy 
Nationwide wasnt prepared to reopen Mr Cs account or have any further discussions with 
him about this complaint. Nationwide have accepted that they could have handled things 
better and they understand why Mr C became so upset during the calls on 10 July 2020. But 
Nationwide maintain that the comments Mr C made were abusive and that his bank account 
was rightly closed in line with the terms and conditions. 
Nationwide is willing to accept a letter from Mr C which explains the improvements he thinks 
they should be making to their customer service. 
As Mr C wasnt happy with this, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since this case has been referred to me to consider, Mr C has made further representations 
to this service about further calls that took place with Nationwide. To be clear, this decision 
only addresses the complaint that Mr C made about calls to Nationwide and his account 
closure in July 2020. 
Calls on 10 July 2020
Mr C has told this service, and Nationwide, that he has autism and multiple mental health 
conditions. Hes said this can affect how he communicates with others. 
Its worth noting that before 10 July 2020, Nationwide were not aware that Mr C had a 
disability. And prior to 10 July 2020, Nationwide have confirmed that there was also no 
record of Mr C using any kind of abusive or offensive language towards Nationwide staff. Mr 
C has been a customer of Nationwide since 2016. 
Mr C has explained his interactions with Nationwide on 10 July 2020 were like someone 
pouring petrol over fire. Having listened to the calls, I agree that they did escalate, and I can 
understand why Mr C feels this way. Its clear Mr C did not understand the explanations he 
was given about a recurring transaction on his card. He explained he was unwell and too ill 
to cope. He also mentioned having suicidal thoughts. He explained the importance of him 
paraphrasing and repeating information back to ensure hed understood. 
Its clear that being spoken over and not feeling listened to or understood is a trigger for Mr 
C and causes him immense distress and anxiety. Having listened to the calls I am satisfied 
Mr C was in a highly emotional and distressed state. And I think Nationwides staff lacked 
patience and understanding, which caused Mr C to become upset. They also spoke over him 
on occasions and didnt refer him to the specialist support team after hed asked them to. So, 
I agree with our investigator that Nationwide could have done more to de-escalate this 
situation. In saying that, I must make it clear that I do not condone the language and discriminatory 
remarks made by Mr C towards Nationwides staff. Its important that Mr C knows which 
comments were inappropriate. Our investigator has already explained this to Mr C, and I 
understand Mr C has made a subject access request to obtain this information directly from 
Nationwide. So, I wont repeat the offensive comments again here.
Im satisfied that Mr Cs disability was a contributing factor to the comments he made during 
calls on 10 July 2020, when he felt hed lost control. But that doesnt mean anyone should 
have to tolerate abuse of any kind whilst trying to do their job and the comments Mr C made 
were totally unacceptable. Whilst I agree that Nationwide could have handled the calls 
better, they are not responsible for the abusive words that Mr C used when speaking to and 
about their staff.
Account closure 
Nationwide issued notice that it was closing Mr Cs account on 23 July 2020, following the 
calls that happened on 10 July 2020. Nationwide is entitled to do this in line with its account 
terms and conditions in situations where they reasonably consider the customers conduct 
towards their staff constitutes to abuse or harassment or a public order offence.  
But given what Mr C had told Nationwide about his disability, I do agree with our investigator 
that they were too quick to issue notice of closure without first trying alternative methods to 
work with Mr C. They also missed opportunities to clearly explain to Mr C what language he 
used that was inappropriate and give a warning about what would happen if Mr C spoke to 
staff like that again. 
I think its right that Nationwide pay Mr C £500 compensation to recognise the way the calls 
were handled and its prompt closure of his account. But Im not going to ask Nationwide to 
reopen Mr Cs accounts now. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr C.  
Putting things right
Mr C has asked that Nationwide apologise to him, reopen his bank account and give him a 
single point of contact.
Given how difficult the interactions have been between Mr C and Nationwide, its clear the 
relationship has broken down beyond repair. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to apologise 
or reopen his bank account. I agree that Nationwide have a responsibility to protect their 
staff from future abusive comments and they were fair in giving Mr C a months notice before 
closing his account. 
So, in my opinion, its right for both Mr C and Nationwide that his account isnt reopened. 
Because of this, I wont be asking Nationwide to give Mr C a single point of contact as he is 
no longer their customer. 
This complaint has been on-going for some time now and I understand its still causing Mr C 
distress which Im very sorry to hear. I do appreciate this is a matter of principle for Mr C but 
I can only investigate individual complaints and I cant comment on how Nationwide 
operates. Its up to Nationwide how it decides to incorporate any learnings from this case 
and I dont think its appropriate for this service to instruct what training its staff should have. 
Nationwide are willing to accept a letter from Mr C detailing the improvements he feels they 
should be making to their customer service, but they will not engage with Mr C about this 
any further. And I am satisfied this is fair in the circumstances. Nationwide have also explained that their sticks and stone policy is for internal use only and 
contains sensitive information which is not to be shared externally. Because of this, I wont 
be asking Nationwide to share a copy of this policy. 
 
Moving forward, Nationwide should
 
pay Mr C £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
accept a letter from Mr C detailing the improvements he feels they can make to their 
customer service. If the letter contains any offensive language, Nationwide is not 
required to read it. 
 
final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr C £500 compensation and accept a letter from Mr C as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman