DRN-4243302
The complaint
Mr C complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a claim
under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy and took too long to decide the outcome of
his claim - for which he wants compensation. 
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats
happened.
Mr C has an LEI policy which is underwritten by RSA. In February 2020, he made a
claim under his policy for legal cover in connection with a dispute he had with his
neighbour about a sewage pipe.
RSA accepted the claim and referred it to its panel firm of solicitors - who Ill refer to
as S.
As of September 2021, the situation with Mr Cs neighbour hadnt progressed and the
advice from S (at the time) was that legal assistance was only required if Mr Cs
neighbour brought proceedings against him to protect the sewer. It added that any
further legal action would depend on whether Mr C proceeded with full planning
permission and commenced on site works.
Unhappy with how his claim was being handled by S, Mr C complained to RSA.
In a final response dated February 2022, RSA said it was satisfied it wasnt required
to appoint a non-panel solicitor as legal proceedings hadnt become necessary.
Mr C remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to our service about the
progress of his claim. An Investigator considered it  under a separate complaint 
and didnt uphold it.
In July 2022, S told RSA that Mr C wanted to progress his legal claim. RSA sought
advice from S as to whether the sewer amounted to trespass for the purpose of
providing cover under the policy. It also raised that a survey report dated 2009
indicated the issue with the sewer was known prior to the policy starting and so, RSA
queried whether the claim ought to be covered.
S advised the sewer wasnt a trespass as an easement had been granted to allow it
to pass through Mr Cs land. Based on there not being a trespass  and therefore, no
insured event - RSA declined Mr Cs claim saying there wasnt cover under the
policy. It was also satisfied it hadnt caused avoidable delays.
Mr C complained to this Service saying it was unfair RSA had taken two years to
decline his claim on the basis that there wasnt a trespass. He also didnt consider
the 2009 survey report to be relevant to determining cover as the issue with his
neighbour first occurred in 2020  which was after the policy started.
An Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think the claim had been declined
unfairly. She said RSA was entitled to rely on S advice and explained Mr C could
challenge the decision by obtaining his own legal opinion.
Mr C disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans
decision.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Whilst I agree with the overall outcome our
Investigator reached, because their view didnt consider Mr Cs concerns about how long it
took RSA to decline his claim, Im issuing a provisional decision to allow both parties the
opportunity to provide further comment before I reach a final decision.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) states an insurer must handle
claims promptly and fairly and must not unreasonably reject a claim. So, Ive considered
what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
RSAs decision to decline the claim
Insurers arent legal experts and so, its standard practice for them to rely on a legal experts
advice to determine whether a policyholder has a valid claim under the terms of the policy.
Here, S advised RSA a trespass hadnt occurred due to the existence of an easement which
allowed the sewer to pass through Mr Cs land. So, it said there wasnt cover under the
policy. RSA, having also referred the matter to its underwriting team, relied on S advice to
decline Mr Cs claim as there wasnt an insured event.
Ive looked at the relevant policy section  which here is about residential disputes. Under
what is covered it says:
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as
a result of:
a. a person or organisation interfering with your legal rights relating to your
home []
The cost of defending legal action brought against you as a result of:
a. you allegedly interfering with another persons legal rights in connection
with you owning or living in your home.
Mr C has said the policy wording is ambiguous because trespass isnt explicitly mentioned,
But Im satisfied a lay person would reasonably understand that a person or organisation
interfering with your legal rights relating to your home includes an act of trespass. And so,
Im not persuaded by this argument.Ive also looked at the legal advice given by S to RSA, and in the absence of there being
anything so obviously wrong with the legal advice given that RSA ought not to have relied on
it, Im satisfied RSA has declined Mr Cs claim fairly on the basis that there isnt an insured
event.
Our Investigator has already explained that if Mr C disagrees with RSAs decision, he can
challenge S legal advice by providing a legal opinion of his own which is in his favour. Ill
leave it with Mr C to decide what he wants to do next in respect of this.
Whilst the information provided suggests RSA also considered whether there were grounds
to decline the claim on the basis that the legal dispute pre-dated the start of the policy, its
since confirmed this doesnt form part of its reasoning for declining the claim, and so, I dont
consider it necessary to comment on this further.
Time taken to decline the claim
Mr C feels strongly that RSA has taken an unreasonable amount of time to decline his claim.
RSA has confirmed it only queried the issue of whether there was cover under the policy in
2022. But its said that having been notified Mr C wanted to continue with his legal claim it
took only approximately three weeks to consider the claim and provide an outcome, which it
doesnt consider to be an unreasonable amount of time.
When looked at in isolation, Id be minded to agree with RSA that three weeks isnt an
unreasonable amount of time  but Im not persuaded thats a fair representation of events. I
say this because on the face of it, it seems RSA ought to have been able to identify there
wasnt a trespass and therefore, cover under the policy when the claim was first logged as
the circumstances of Mr Cs legal dispute hadnt changed. In support of this is the fact RSA
has confirmed its decision to query cover with S in July 2022 wasnt prompted by new
information coming to light but was instead because Mr C was looking to progress his legal
dispute with his neighbour. But whats key  and has remained the same since the start of
the claim  is that the dispute was about the sewer and its route through Mr Cs land.
So, Ive considered whether theres been an impact on Mr C because of this  including
whether he would have acted differently had cover been declined earlier on. From what Ive
seen, it seems the dispute between Mr C and his neighbour was either at an impasse or
hadnt escalated between the time the claim was first logged and Mr Cs decision to move
ahead with the legal dispute in July 2022. And so, even if hed been told at the outset that he
didnt have cover, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr C would have acted differently
or that RSA has prejudiced his position by not identifying earlier on that there wasnt cover.
Understandably, its disappointing and frustrating for Mr C to have been told a couple of
years after submitting his claim that he doesnt have cover to pursue the remedy he wants,
but I must balance this with the fact hes had the benefit of legal advice from S  something
he wasnt entitled to and would have had to pay for himself had cover been declined at the
outset.
Ive also kept in mind that legal disputes by their very nature are stressful and so, it wouldnt
be fair to attribute distress which is part and parcel of dealing with a legal dispute to RSA.
So, without evidence that persuades me RSAs actions caused Mr C distress or
inconvenience which went beyond what might be reasonably expected, Im not currently
minded to say compensation is warranted in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.Both parties responded to my decision. RSA accepted my findings and said it had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr C replied saying he expected S  when writing to the neighbours solicitors  to address 
the issue about which sewer ought to be used, and he provided a copy of a letter he sent S. 
Mr C says he didnt receive a response to his letter from RSA, and so he says RSA caused a 
delay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from the findings of my provisional decision. Ive read the 
letter Mr C has provided but it doesnt change my position. The letter - which is addressed to 
S  is about the merits of his legal dispute. Mr C has said RSA didnt reply to it, but given its 
addressed to S, Im not persuaded RSA can reasonably be held at fault. 
Whilst I agree with Mr C that RSA could have decided his claim wasnt covered earlier on, 
Ive explained in my provisional decision why Im not persuaded his position has been 
prejudiced because of this. And as hes benefited from legal advice he otherwise wouldnt 
have been entitled to, I remain of the opinion that I dont consider it fair or reasonable to ask 
RSA to pay compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman