DRN-3862981
The complaint
The estate of X, Mrs T and Mrs A complain The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (Royal London) have been unable to trace two penny policy insurance policies set 
up to provide assurance for Mrs T and Mrs A.
Due to the time thats passed and the limited documentation available, its unclear if these 
policies were set up in the names of Mrs T and Mrs A directly, or in their parents names on 
behalf of their daughters.
It is for this reason Ive addressed my decision to the estate of X, Mrs T and Mrs A.
What happened
In the 1940s the parents of Mrs T and Mrs A took out penny policy insurance policies to 
benefit each of them. The last known contributions to the policies were in 1971.
In 2021, Mrs T contacted Royal London asking them to verify the value of each policy and 
pay them out. 
Royal London searched their systems but couldnt find a record of the policies. They said 
they were only obliged to keep records of policies without value for six years but explained 
had any value remained in the policies, a record would still exist.
Mrs T and Mrs A disagreed with Royal London the policies could hold no value as their 
parents had paid premiums into them without fail and theyd not been surrendered.
Royal Londons decision remained unchanged, so the complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but thought Royal London had done enough in 
trying to locate the policies. He said he was satisfied this was more likely than not because 
the policies no longer held any value.
Mrs T and Mrs A disagreed. Mrs T said it seems obvious the reason no record can be found 
is because the policies havent been surrendered, and that without proof of the policies being 
cashed in, they see it as the funds having been stolen and see no reason for Royal London 
to withhold any pay-outs which are expected and overdue.
As no resolution could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think its important to say that my role here is to look at the searches Royal London 
have done to try and locate the two policies, and not necessarily to say what happened to 
the money. This is an important distinction. 
Possession of the original receipt books isnt evidence either policy remain live or hold any 
value. I understand it shows the policies were active and contributions were paid until 1971, 
however, it doesnt evidence they werent surrendered over the years.
The policies in question were taken out in the 1940s, around 80 years ago, so its 
understandable theres limited documentation from the time other than the receipt books 
provided by Mrs T and Mrs A. In situations like this I need to reach a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities as to what I think is most likely to have happened.
Royal London have searched their systems using the information provided to them and 
theyve provided screen shots showing no policies either open or closed were found. 
Having considered these screen shots, and the information provided by Royal London, Im 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, neither policy remains open with them. And that 
any policies previously held were more likely than not closed prior to the retention period of 
information by Royal London. Im satisfied had either policy held value still, the retention 
period wouldnt apply, and the searches completed by Royal London wouldve located them.
As I said above, my role is to look at what searches Royal London have done to try and 
locate Mrs T and Mrs As policies. Having looked at everything Im satisfied Royal London 
have acted fairly and reasonably when searching their records. Its unfortunate, but not 
unexpected after some 80 years since the policies were set up, and around 50 years since 
any evidence of contributions to the policies being made, Royal London have been unable to 
say where the money went, but I dont think theyve made any errors in their actions.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X and 
Mrs T and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman