DRN-1710134
The complaint
Mr. P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services Limited (VWFS) didnt return his 
personal number plates at the end of his lease agreement.  He would like the number plates 
returned
What happened
Mr. P says when he returned his car to VWFS at the end of the lease period he expected the 
number plates to be removed as had happened with previous agreements. But he says this 
didnt happen. 
He says VWFS wrote to him on 23 July 2019 asking him to let VWFS know what his 
intentions were regarding the number plates by 29 July 2019. However, Mr. P says he was 
on holiday and didnt get this letter to respond within the given timescale.
He says in a phone call with VWFS on 13 August 2019 he understood, on payment of an 
administrative fee, he could have the number plates returned. But says although he paid the 
relevant fee the car had already been sold on.
VWFS said Mr. P had ample time to make arrangements for the retention of his number 
plates. It wrote to him twice to advise the car was due to be returned in July 2019. It 
contacted Mr. P specifically about the number plates when the car was returned but Mr. P 
didnt respond within the timescale it gave.
VWFS accepted it had mis informed Mr. P in its call of 13 August 2019. By that time, having 
not heard back from Mr. P about the number plates, it had requested a new V5 form which 
prevented it from retaining the plates. It did make efforts to see if it could recover the plates 
but was unable to do so.
Our investigator originally upheld the complaint. He found that VWFS hadnt given Mr. P 
enough time to respond to its letter asking him his intentions about the number plates. He 
recommended that VWFS: -
- Looked into purchasing the number plate back for Mr. P
- Or compensated Mr. P the value of the number plate
- And paid  £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr. P accepted this view but VWFS didnt. It provided further information to be considered. 
This included the phone call of 13 August 2019, its full system notes and a screen shot of 
British Vehicle Rental and Licensing (BVRLA) guidelines.
After careful consideration our investigator changed his view and did not uphold Mr. Ps 
complaint. He found the BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear guide supplied to Mr. P stated that 
drivers should liaise with leasing companies before the end of a lease agreement about 
transferring personal number plates. He felt Mr. P should have contacted VWFS prior to the 
end of the lease as the number plates clearly meant a lot to him. But he hadnt done so.
He did find that VWFS misled Mr. P in its call of 13 August 2019. However, he noted that 
although VWFS advised Mr. P he needed to pay £130 to retain the plates Mr. P didnt call 
back to make this payment until 3 September 2019. By this time, it was too late as the car 
had been sold on 22 August 2019. He noted that VWFS had partially upheld Mr. Ps 
complaint in relation to this point.
.
VWFS accepted this second view but Mr. P didnt. He said VWFS were aware he wanted to 
keep the plates. And the delay in making the relevant £130 payment was due to VWFS not 
calling him back to confirm the actual amount needed.
In the interests of resolving his complaint Mr. P said he would accept a payment of £10,000. 
However, VWFS declined this stating it wished the case to go for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. P feels strongly about his complaint. I do understand that, so I appreciate he is going to 
be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator did in his second 
view.
There is no dispute that Mr. Ps car was sold on with his personalized number plates. What I 
must consider is if VWFS has done anything wrong.
From the information I have been given I can see that VWFS wrote to Mr. P in January 2019 
to advise his car was due to be returned in July 2019. It wrote again in May 2019 to confirm 
again that the car needed to be returned by July 2019.
Both letters say they include a copy of the BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide which, as our 
investigator has pointed out, states that drivers should contact the leasing company 10-12 
weeks before the end of the lease about transferring any personal number plates.
I think even if the guides werent included in these two letters, they were referred to, so Mr. P 
had access to the information that VWFS uses in relation to end of lease cars.
I am also surprised that as the number plates were clearly very important to Mr. P that he 
didnt try to contact VWFS about this prior to the return of his car. I have looked at the 
customer contact notes. Although Mr. P was in touch with VWFS several times from January 
2019 to the end of the lease hire, I can see no mention of his wish to retain the number 
plates.
I think VWFS gave Mr. P a tight timescale of just seven days to let VWFS know what he 
wanted to do with the number plates. Its unfortunate that Mr. P was on holiday so says he 
was unable to respond in the timescale given. But although the timescale was tight, I think 
Mr. P had enough warning about the end of his lease agreement to make arrangements to 
retain the plates. But I cant see that he did this.
I can appreciate it must have been very frustrating that when Mr. P called VWFS on 13 
August 2019. VWFS accepts it told Mr P if he made a payment, he could retain the plates. 
VWFS has explained that this was incorrect. By this time, it had already requested a new V5 
document, so it wasnt within its gift to return the plates. VWFS has accepted it mis informed 
Mr. P. But I dont think it was wrong to request a new V5 document given it hadnt heard 
back from Mr. P in relation to the plates.Mr. P has made several points about this phone call which I feel he should mention. He says 
he couldnt make the payment when he first called as it wasnt clear what payment he should 
make. That it took a few days for VWFS to get back to him about this. So, if I have 
understood him correctly Mr. P. thinks if VWFS had been able to confirm the payment 
straight he could have made the payment on 13 August 2019 and retained the plates.
From the customer notes I can see VWFS spoke to Mr. P three times on the afternoon of 13 
August. It gave Mr. P the right figure, but Mr. P wanted to know what the figure was made up 
of. This was explained to him in one of the follow up calls that same day. But Mr. P didnt go 
ahead and make the payment, subsequently refunded, until 3 September 2019. However, I 
dont feel this is relevant since from what VWFS has told us it was already too late to recover 
the plates. 
I think VWFS has made reasonable efforts to contact the new owner to see if the plates can 
be retrieved. Its unfortunate that it wasnt able to do this.  But I dont think I can reasonably 
expect it to do anything else. It isnt appropriate to pass on details of another consumer to 
Mr. P. And I dont think I can reasonably ask VWFS to pay the £10,000 Mr. P has asked for.  
I think in the absence of any request from Mr. P to retain the plates until it was too late, that 
VWFS didnt do anything wrong in selling on the car complete with the plates.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman