DRN-3804277
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) plc (BOI) dealt with her application for a 
buy-to-let mortgage. She says it took too long, and BOI was unfair in declining her 
application for a mortgage on a property it was already lending against under a different 
brand name. As a result, she has lost out financially in having had to pay interest on her 
mortgage at her previous lenders standard variable rate for two months. 
What happened
Ms W took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Post Office Money Mortgages in 2018. Post Office 
Money Mortgages are provided by BOI. Ms Ws mortgage was on a fixed interest rate until 
30 September 2021.
In August 2021, Ms W applied to remortgage to BOI, because BOI was offering more 
favourable interest rate products to new customers than it was to existing customers under 
its Post Office Money Mortgages brand.
At the time of her application, Ms W was living in private rented accommodation temporarily, 
having sold the property she had owned and been living in. BOI said it would usually only 
lend to owner-occupiers. But it made some further enquiries about Ms Ws situation and 
agreed to proceed with the application. In early September 2021, it instructed a valuation. 
The valuer said that the property required an EWS1 form and Fire Risk Assessment Report 
before a valuation for lending purposes could be produced. 
An EWS1  external wall system  form is a standard form completed by an accredited fire 
safety expert to assess the risk to the building from combustible cladding or other fire safety 
defects. There is guidance from the government and the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) about the sorts of buildings where an EWS1 may be required. In general, 
its multi-storey buildings such as blocks of flats that are affected, and an EWS1 will set out 
the level of fire risk.
In England, the EWS1 is commissioned by the building owner  either the freeholder or the 
management company  rather than by the individual flat owner.
Ms W had some difficulties getting the documents BOI required from the property managers, 
but was able to provide them in early October 2021. The surveyor BOI had instructed still 
had some concerns about the security property, so BOI declined Ms Ws mortgage 
application on 11 October 2021.
Ms W pointed out that BOI was already lending against the property in question, albeit under 
its Post Office Money Mortgages brand, so granting the mortgage she had applied for 
wouldnt result in any increased risk to it. BOI reviewed its position and agreed to grant the 
mortgage. It issued a mortgage offer on 28 October 2021. 
Ms W didnt receive the offer, so BOI sent a new one on 17 November 2021. Ms W didnt 
receive that either, so BOI sent a third offer by special delivery on 25 November 2021. The 
mortgage completed in early December 2021. By then, Ms W had made the complaint at 
hand here. 
BOI didnt uphold the complaint or offer Ms W any compensation. Ms W referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator concluded that BOI had 
applied its usual policy in asking for the information it did in connection with Ms Ws 
application, and it hadnt caused undue delay.
Ms W didnt accept that outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator, for much the 
same reasons.
Ms W considers that she was asked to provide unnecessary information and was subject to 
avoidable delays, mainly because BOI was already lending to her under its Post Office 
Money Mortgages brand. She wasnt borrowing any more money, so she says that granting 
the mortgage she wanted didnt represent any increased risk to the bank.
I can certainly understand Ms Ws point. Post Office Money Mortgages and BOI are part of 
the same mortgage lender. However, this doesnt automatically mean that all Post Office 
Money Mortgages borrowers should be able to access the products available under the 
BOI brand without further assessment or where they dont meet BOIs lending criteria. The 
different brands have different lending criteria and offer different products. Ms W chose not 
to apply for a new interest rate product with Post Office Money Mortgages but instead to 
apply to BOI. She had to do so as a new customer, but I dont consider that there was 
anything unreasonable or unusual in that.
There were two issues with Ms Ws application about which BOI had concerns: Ms W not 
being an owner-occupier, and the fire safety risk of the security property.
As Ms W has pointed out, BOI should have known from the start that she wasnt an owner-
occupier. Her completed mortgage application said that she was renting privately. So BOI 
could have declined the application straight away. Instead, it asked Ms W about her situation 
in order to decide whether to make an exception to its usual policy. I dont consider that I can 
fairly say it was unfair or wrong to have done that; on the contrary, I think this was a 
reasonable approach for it to have taken.
Those further enquiries didnt cause significant delay to the application: the application was 
dated 12 August 2021, and BOI discussed Ms Ws situation with her on 17 August 2021 and 
agreed to go ahead. That was subject to proof of address, but that would have been the 
case in any event. It received this on 9 September 2021 and instructed a valuation, which 
was completed on 14 September 2021.
The second issue was the fire safety risk of the property. Ms W considers BOIs 
requirements to have been excessive and out of line with those of other lenders, in respect 
of the documents it needed.
Since 2018, when Ms W took out her mortgage on this property with Post Office Money 
Mortgages, there have been significant changes in mortgage lending (following the Grenfell 
Tower tragedy in 2017). A new awareness of the risks of combustible cladding and other fire safety issues led to new procedures  such as the EWS1 process, which was introduced in 
2019  and to lenders factoring these issues into lending risk assessments. In other words, 
BOIs lending criteria had changed since 2018.
Ive seen a copy of BOIs lending criteria, and Im satisfied that it applied them to Ms Ws 
application as it would to any other. It instructed a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out a 
valuation, and it followed their guidance in asking for an EWS1 form and Fire Risk 
Assessment report. It was entitled to do that, although its unfortunate that Ms W ran into 
difficulties getting appropriate documents from the property managers. BOI received the 
relevant form and report on 8 October 2021, which it then sent on to the surveyor. It went on 
to decline Ms Ws application on 11 October 2021 due to the surveyors concerns with the 
security property.
BOI then reviewed this decision and approved the application on 28 October 2021. It sent 
Ms W the first mortgage offer the same day, another offer on 17 November 2021 and a final 
one on 24 November 2021, because Ms W didnt receive the first two. The remortgage 
completed in early December 2021.
Ive seen copies of the first two offer letters, and they are correctly addressed to the PO Box 
Ms W was using for correspondence. I think it most likely that they were sent. While Ms W 
had asked for correspondence to be sent electronically, I dont consider BOI was 
unreasonable in issuing offer documents by post, and I think the delay in Ms W receiving 
them was down to non-receipt rather than a failure on BOIs part to issue them in a 
reasonable timeframe.
While the application process took longer than Ms W would have liked, overall I dont find 
that BOI caused significant or unreasonable delay, or that it treated Ms W unfairly. It was 
entitled to apply its current lending criteria, it agreed to make exceptions to them and 
ultimately granted the mortgage, and Ms W didnt miss out on the interest rate product she 
had applied for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman