DRN-4433931
Complaint
Mr Y complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. 
Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable and so Oodle 
should never have lent to him. 
Background
In January 2022, Oodle provided Mr Y with finance for a used car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £17,995.00. Mr Y paid a deposit of £500 and entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement with Oodle for the remaining £17,495.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £5,786.00 (comprising of interest of 
£5,686.00, a document fee of £50 and an option to purchase fee of £50), and a 60-month 
term. 
This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £23,281.00 (not including the deposit) was 
due to be repaid in 1 monthly instalment of £436.35 followed by 58 monthly instalments of 
£386.35, followed by a final instalment of £436.35. 
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Oodle had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr Y unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ys complaint 
should be upheld. 
Mr Y disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ys complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Oodle needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Oodle needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr Y before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ys complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Oodle says it agreed to this application after Mr Y provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr Y which showed some outstanding balances. 
But when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ys living expenses were 
deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other 
hand, Mr Y says the monthly payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr Y and Oodle have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Oodle didnt simply accept Mr Ys declarations at face 
value as it carried out credit checks. And given what Oodle would have seen on the credit 
checks suggests that Mr Y was managing his existing credit well, its arguable that it was 
reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Ys living costs, rather than finding out more about 
what they actually were. This is because there was nothing to suggested that Mr Y fell 
outside the profile of the average borrower.
Furthermore, and in any event, I dont think that Oodle carrying out further checks is more 
likely than not to have made a difference here. I say this because Im satisfied that Oodle is 
still likely to have lent to Mr Y even if it had found out more about his actual living expenses.
In my view, the information Mr Y has provided does appear to show that when his committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. Bearing in mind the information provided now does not clearly 
demonstrate that Mr Ys living costs meant that he couldnt afford the monthly payments, Im 
satisfied that doing Oodle doing more wont have led to it reaching a different conclusion on 
lending to him. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while its arguable that Oodles checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr Y may not have gone far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out further checks wont have stopped Oodle from providing these 
funds, or entering into this agreement. 
So Im satisfied that Oodle didnt act unfairly towards Mr Y when it agreed to provide the 
funds. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr Y. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman