DRN-2699768
The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint in February 2021. In that decision 
I explained that UKC had agreed it shouldnt have given the loan to Mr W and so I set out 
what I thought the lender needed to do to put things right. Both parties have received a copy 
of my provisional decision, but for completeness I provide an extract of parts of my findings 
below. I said;
Mr W was given a single loan by UKC. He borrowed £5,000 in June 2018 and agreed 
to repay the loan over 50 monthly instalments. Mr Ws loan was guaranteed by a 
friend. The guarantor has brought a separate complaint about UKCs decision to 
allow them to act as the guarantor that I have decided separately. So I dont need to 
consider the addition of the guarantor any further in this decision, however I will take 
account of the redress that I have said should be been paid to the guarantor when 
deciding what compensation UKC needs to pay to Mr W. Mr Ws loan had an 
outstanding balance when he brought his complaint to this Service.
When Mr W complained to UKC, the lender accepted that the checks it had done at 
the time it agreed the loan had been insufficient. So it accepted it shouldnt have 
given the loan to Mr W and offered to remove all the interest it had added to the loan 
from the outset. It said it would only expect Mr W to repay the principal that he had 
borrowed. But that did still leave and outstanding balance on the loan account. 
UKC has accepted that the checks it did before agreeing the loan were insufficient. 
And as a result it has concluded that the loan shouldnt have been agreed. So I dont 
need to consider that part of the complaint any further. What I do need to decide is 
what it would be appropriate for UKC to do, in order to put things right.
In cases such as these my normal expectation would be that the borrower should 
repay the principal that they had borrowed. Whilst it wouldnt be right for the lender to 
profit from the loan, by for example charging interest on the borrowing, the consumer 
has had the benefit of the money that was lent.
I havent seen anything that makes me think my normal approach shouldnt be 
applied to this complaint. Ultimately UKC provided Mr W with the loan that he asked 
for, and that he said he would be able to repay. Whilst that in no way diminishes the 
fault of UKC in providing the loan, it doesnt lead me to conclude that it would be fair 
to expect UKC to write off the remaining debt that Mr W owes. And there dont 
appear to be any further unusual circumstances that might make me think a write off 
would be fair.
So in conclusion, I think it is reasonable to apply our normal approach to putting 
things right on complaints such as these. That means that the amount Mr W needs to 
repay on the loan should be limited to the principal that he borrowed. I dont think 
there are any grounds to expect UKC to do anything further than I have set out 
below.
I have considered the current status of Mr Ws loan, although I appreciate that might 
have changed since the offer that UKC made to him. So the redress I am directing 
below will need to take account of any repayments that have recently been made.
In upholding the complaint from the guarantor I directed that UKC should refund all 
the repayments that the guarantor has made on the loan. I think it is reasonable that 
UKC takes that refund into account when looking at what remains for Mr W to repay 
on this loan. So that means the offer UKC originally made to Mr W will now change. 
UKC has already indicated to us that it is intending to calculate a new offer based on 
that information.
My starting principle is that Mr W shouldnt be expected to repay more than is 
outstanding immediately before UKC makes the refund to the guarantor. But I think it 
reasonable that UKC should only receive back the capital that it lent to Mr W. So, if 
the amount of capital originally borrowed (£5,000), less the repayments made by 
Mr W himself, is lower, UKC should amend the loan balance to that lower amount.
UKC should seek to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for any balance 
that remains on the loan in line with what I have set out above. I would remind UKC 
that it should treat Mr W positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
UKC should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in 
relation to the loan.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Both Mr W and 
UKC have responded to my provisional decision. Although I am only summarising here what 
they have said, I have considered their entire responses carefully before writing this 
decision.
Mr W doesnt agree with my provisional decision. He says that since the loan shouldnt have 
been lent in the first place he doesnt think it fair that he should be held accountable for the 
redress. And he says that my redress, after taking account of the payments being refunded 
to the guarantor, will leave him no better off than he was before he made the complaint. He 
thinks the loan should be entirely removed from his credit file.
UKC has raised two matters in relation to my provisional decision. It questions the redress 
that I am proposing, since its implementation will mean that Mr W will not be required to 
repay all the principal that he has borrowed, after accounting for the redress paid to the 
guarantor. It says that in an extreme case, following that approach might mean that, where 
all the payments had been made by the guarantor, the borrower might be required to repay 
nothing at all towards the loan.
UKC also questions whether the complaint should be recorded as being upheld. It says that 
Mr W brought the complaint to this Service as he wanted the remaining balance written off  
something that I have said UKC doesnt need to do. It says it always accepted that the loan 
shouldnt have been given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded that I should change my provisional decision. But I would 
like to give some further thoughts on the points raised by Mr W and by UKC.
When upholding a complaint the redress I propose is to put the consumer back into the 
position they would have been if nothing had gone wrong. Here, that isnt easy since Mr W 
had the benefit of the principal that he borrowed a number of years ago. But since he has 
enjoyed the benefit of that money I think it only fair that he should repay it. So, as I explained 
in my provisional decision I havent seen any exceptional reasons here that would lead me to 
conclude that the outstanding balance should be written off. 
I appreciate that what I am directing UKC to do in order to put things right will mean that 
Mr W wont be required to repay all the principal that he was lent. And understand the impact 
of applying redress in this way, in the extreme circumstance that UKC has described. But 
here, I am considering the complaint that Mr W has made, and deciding what I think is fair 
and reasonable  and in no way does the extreme circumstance that UKC has highlighted 
apply.
UKC agrees it has done wrong. I dont think it is fair, or reasonable, that Mr W should find 
himself in a worse position after making a successful complaint to this Service because UKC 
compounded its error in lending to Mr W by adding a guarantor to the loan. It is only right 
that the guarantor, who had no benefit from the lending, should receive their payments back. 
But given the circumstances here I dont think that means that UKC should reasonably 
expect Mr W to pick up the cost of its error. So I am not proposing to change the redress 
I proposed in my provisional decision.
I appreciate that UKC agreed with much of what I am proposing. But as Ive explained above 
it did do something wrong  in giving the loan to Mr W in the first place. And the redress I am 
asking it to pay does differ from the offer it has made to Mr W. So I think it fair that this 
complaint is upheld.
Putting things right
I have considered the current status of Mr Ws loan, although I appreciate that might have 
changed since the revised offer that UKC made to him. So the redress I am directing below 
will need to take account of any repayments that have recently been made. 
In upholding the complaint from the guarantor I directed that UKC should refund all the 
repayments that the guarantor has made on the loan. I think it is reasonable that UKC takes 
that refund into account when looking at what remains for Mr W to repay on this loan. So that 
means the offer UKC originally made to Mr W has changed. UKC has sent Mr W a new offer 
based on that information.
But as Ive explained, I dont think that Mr W should be expected to repay more than was 
outstanding immediately before UKC made the refund to the guarantor. But I think it 
reasonable that UKC should only receive back a maximum amount of the capital that it lent 
to Mr W. So, if the amount of capital originally borrowed (£5,000), less the repayments made 
by Mr W himself, is lower, UKC should amend the loan balance to that lower amount. 
UKC should seek to agree an affordable repayment arrangement for any balance that 
remains on the loan in line with what I have set out above. I would remind UKC that it should 
treat Mr W positively and sympathetically in those discussions. And UKC should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the loan.  My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman