DRN-3540277
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020, Mr B took out an annual platinum multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by
URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 16 February 2020 to 14 February 2021.
In September 2019, a holiday was booked abroad for Mr B, his wife and daughter. They
were due to depart the UK on 29 February 2020. Their return flight had been booked for 25
March 2020, arriving in the UK the following day.
Whilst abroad in a country Ill refer to a N in March 2020, Mr B was unable to take his pre-
booked flight to another country, Ill refer to as A. Thats because A had introduced travel
restrictions meaning that anyone arriving there would need to quarantine for 14 days. And
had Mr B travelled to A and quarantined, he wouldve missed his intended return flight to the
UK.
Mr B bought a new flight with a different airline, hoping he could transit via an airport in A
before continuing his journey back to the UK. That flight had been booked for 25 March
2020. But that flight was subsequently cancelled due to travel restrictions introduced by the
government of N.
Mr B then bought a ticket for a flight departing N at the end of March 2020 - with the intention
of travelling back to the UK via another country Ill refer to as C from a different city in N. As
a result, he needed to take an internal flight on 23 March 2020. However, the flight to C was
subsequently cancelled because of travel restrictions imposed for that area of C. Further, the
government of N announced restrictions on movement.
So, Mr B ended up staying in N for much longer than he intended and wasnt able to get a
flight home to the UK until mid-April 2020.
Mr B subsequently made a claim on the policy for his out of pocket costs including the price
of the flight he managed to book back to the UK in April 2020 and other flights, which he was
unable to recover from third parties together with accommodation costs, taxi fares and
refreshments.
URV declined the claim. It said that the circumstances which led to the claim werent
covered under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if you have to cut your
trip short (the curtailment section of the policy). And nor did the circumstances amount to a
major incident under the section of the policy terms and conditions entitled: if a major
incident occurs while you were away (the trip disruption section of the policy).
Unhappy, a complaint was made to URV. URV maintained its position. So, Mr B brought a
complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that URV had fairly concluded that the claim wasnt covered
under the curtailment section of the policy. However, he didnt think URV had fairly declined
a claim under the trip disruption section of the policy. In his view the Covid-19 pandemic was
a major incident as defined by the trip disruption section of the policy, as it amounted to an
act of nature.
Our investigator recommended URV reconsider the claim under the trip disruption section of
the policy considering the remaining policy terms and conditions. He also recommended
URV add simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum if the claim was paid (from the date of
the claim to the date of settlement).
URV disagreed. In summary it said:
Its unreasonable to interpret an act of nature to include Covid-19.
An act of nature is an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or
avoided by the exercise of due care or foresight. And Covid-19 is an event that can
be prevented, or measures can be taken to exercise care.
An act of nature is widely known and defined as events that are climate related.
So, Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 June 2022 explaining in more detail why I was also 
intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further comments 
or information. URV said it had nothing further to add. Mr B accepted my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline an insurance claim.
Curtailment claim
Page 19 of the policy terms and conditions set out the section on curtailment. It says it will
pay up to £7,500 for stipulated costs if:
You had to cut short your trip because something happened after the date you left
home, which you could not have expected to foresee or avoid.
But Mr B ended up returning to the UK almost four weeks after hed originally intended to.
So, Im not persuaded that the trip was cut short.
Further, a national lockdown wasnt put into place in N until 11.59pm on 25 March 2020. As
thats after the time which Mr B was originally due to depart N, I dont think its fair and
reasonable to conclude that his trip was effectively curtailed.
As such, I dont think URV has unfairly and unreasonably declined cover under the
curtailment section of the policy.
Trip disruption claim
The policy also provides cover if Mr Bs trip was disrupted due to a major incident.Page 32 of the policy terms and conditions sets out the section on travel disruption. It says:
If your trip was disrupted due to a major incident. This is what we will do:
- We will pay you up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel expenses to
enable you to return home, or move to a safer area.
- We will pay you up to £100 for each 24-hour period for up to a maximum of
£700 for additional accommodation.
- We will pay you up to £30 for each 24-hour period for food up to a maximum
of £210.
- We will pay you up to £150 for the emergency replenishment of baby
essentials or prescription medication, if your existing supplies run out during
the period that you are delayed.
Trip in this section is defined as: travel that was booked or taken during the period of
insurance.
Mr B bought the policy in February 2020. The trip was booked before this, in September
2019, and began on 29 February 2020. So, Im satisfied that the trip was booked and taken
during the period of insurance.
Im also satisfied that Mr Bs trip was disrupted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, Ive
considered whether the Covid-19 pandemic can fairly and reasonably be said to amount to a
major incident.
Under the trip disruption section of the policy, major incident is defined as:
war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions, volcanic eruption and other acts of
nature which first arise during your trip.
But the phrase other acts of nature isnt defined under the policy.
In the absence of the phrase being separately defined by the policy, I dont think URV has
fairly and reasonably concluded that this phrase doesnt include a virus pandemic. Ill explain
why.
The dictionary definition
Ive first taken into account the definition of nature in the Cambridge English Dictionary.
Although not definitive, I think its relevant that nature is defined as all the animals, plants,
rocks, etc. in the world and all the features, forces, and processes that happen or exist
independently of people, such as the weather, the sea, mountains, the production of young
animals or plants, and growth.
So, the dictionary definition doesnt expressly include a microscopic virus. However, I think
the definition  taken as a whole  is wide enough to include it. After all, a virus is organic
material that invades living cells and uses its chemical machinery to exist and to replicate
itself. As such, a virus could be viewed as part of the natural world. And given that the policy
doesnt define nature or other acts of nature, I dont think the policy contradicts the
dictionary definition of nature.
The legal positionInvestors Compensation Scheme Limited v West Bromwich Building Society and Others is
relevant caselaw which sets out several principles for the construction of contracts (the
principles). They include:
-Interpretation is the ascertainment of the meaning which the document would convey
to a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at
the time of the contract.
-That background knowledge is subject to the requirement that it should have been
reasonably available to the parties and that it is not part of previous negotiations
between the parties. It includes anything which would have affected the way in which
the language of the document would have been understood by a reasonable person.
-The meaning which a document (or any other utterance) would convey to a
reasonable person is not the same thing as the meaning of its words. The meaning of
words is a matter of dictionaries and grammars; the meaning of the document is what
the parties using those words against the relevant background would reasonably
have been understood to mean.
-The rule that words should be given their natural and ordinary meaning reflects
the commonsense proposition that we do not easily accept that people have made
linguistic mistakes, particularly in formal documents. On the other hand, if one would
nevertheless conclude from the background that something must have gone wrong
with the language, the law does not require judges to attribute to the parties an
intention which they plainly could not have had.
The policy in this case was taken out in February 2020. Applying the principles to the policy,
its possible that the parties did have the global spread of a microscopic virus in mind when
entering into the contract of insurance. Covid-19 had started spreading amongst the human
population at the time of entering into the contract.
Im also mindful that a reasonable person with all knowledge of the background at the time of
entering the insurance contract could reasonably conclude that other acts of nature would
include all aspects of the natural world  including viruses. And different types of
coronaviruses have emerged over the years and have affected certain countries along with
other viruses such as the Zika virus and Ebola. I think this is something the parties wouldve
been aware of at the time of entering into the contract of insurance.
Although, not legal authority arising out of the courts of England and Wales, the US District
Court in the Southern District of New York in JN Contemporary Art LLC v Phillips
Auctioneers LCC (No. 20-CV-4370) held that [i]t cannot seriously be disputed that the
Covid-19 pandemic is a natural disaster for the purposes of a force majeure clause in an
auction agreement which expressly referred to natural disasters. I dont think thats
inconsistent with the spread of a microscopic virus falling within the definition of an act of
nature.
Ive also considered the rules of language applied by the courts which say that a
sweeping up phrase will be of the same type as the previous specific provisions set out in
the clause.
Applying the rules of language to the policy definition of major incident could lead to the
conclusion that the sweeping up phrase of any other acts of nature at the end of the
definition includes only acts of nature along the lines of volcanic eruption and climactic
conditions, not microscopic viruses (such as Covid-19). However, the curtailment section ofthe policy, separately defines natural disaster. And when defining major disruption in the trip
disruption section of the policy, URV couldve included the term other natural disasters but
didnt. The phrase other acts of nature was used. If it had instead referred to natural
disasters when defining major disruption, then this may have been clearer for the
policyholder to understand. So, in this case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and
reasonable to equate other acts of nature with the term natural disaster  as defined by the
policy.
Having considered the policy definition of major incident, the dictionary definition of nature
and legal principles set out above, at the very least, I think the phrase other acts of nature
has more than one meaning (in the absence of being separately defined elsewhere in the
policy). And because Im satisfied that the policy terms and conditions amount to a consumer
contract, I think The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is a relevant consideration here.
Section 69(1) of the CRA says: If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice,
could have different meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to
prevail.
The meaning most favourable to Mr B would be that the phrase other acts of nature
includes microscopic viruses such as Covid-19.
Other relevant considerations
When deciding whether URV has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Bs
complaint, Ive not only considered relevant law. Rule 3.6.4R of the Dispute Resolution
Rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook says, when considering whats
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I should take into account the
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice
and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including that a firm must:
- conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2).
- pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
- pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate
  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading (Principle 7).
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers of financial
services in certain circumstances to do to ensure that customers are treated fairly. And this
Guide explains that firms should take account of what information the customer needs to
understand the product or service, its purpose and the risks, and communicate information in
a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
I also think its good industry practice for underwriters of travel insurance policies to clearly
set out the terms on which someone is insured, including what they are and arent covered
for. And they ought to provide clear definitions of any words or phrases which could be
ambiguous and have various different meanings. Ive explained above why I consider the
phrase other acts of nature to be ambiguous and, without the phrase being separately
defined, that it has different interpretations.
Overall, Im satisfied that this all leads to the conclusion that URV hasnt acted fairly and
reasonably by declining Mr Bs claim under the trip disruption section of the policy in this
case. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for the phrase other acts of nature to include theCovid-19 pandemic.
When determining this issue, Ive taken into account what URV has said about an act of
nature being an event where the effects of which could not be prevented or avoided by the
exercise of due care or foresight. But Im not persuaded by that. The other examples given
of what constitutes a major disruption under the policy are potentially capable of being
avoided.
As the phrase being hasnt been separately defined, I dont think a reasonable person
considering other acts of nature would reasonably conclude that the policy only covers a
major disruption which couldnt have been avoided or prevented in some way. And Ive not
been referred to any independent evidence  medical or otherwise  which supports the idea
that once transmission starts, a virus can be prevented from spreading across the world.
The policy exclusions
The trip disruption section of the policy also goes on to list what isnt covered and that
includes if:
you booked your trip, or travelled after the announcement of a major incident.
Ill refer to this as the exclusion.
Under the policy, travelled isnt separately defined but Im satisfied that it would be fair and
reasonable to interpret this as the date of travel from the UK. The travel disruption section of
the policy expressly provides cover for up to £1,000 for reasonable additional travel
expenses to enable you to return home or move to a safer area.
So, if travelled in the context of the exclusion is interpreted more widely to include all travel
 including travel back to the UK after the announcement of a major incident - then a
policyholder is unlikely to ever be able to claim on the policy for a return flight home after a
major incident is announced. Even though there is separate cover for such a scenario under
the policy.
Im also satisfied that the announcement of Covid-19 being a major incident first took place
on 11 March 2020. Although, there were reports of people contracting Covid-19 before Mr B
travelled on 29 February 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare Covid-
19 as a pandemic until 11 March 2020.
So, I dont think the exclusion is applicable to the circumstances of this complaint, as
Mr B didnt book the trip or travel on or after the WHO announcement on 11 March 2020.
Putting things right
I direct URV to assess the claim on the basis that a major incident includes the
Covid-19 pandemic and is covered under the trip disruption section of the policy.
The claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not
limited to) the financial limits of this section of the policy, and any applicable excess.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as Ive set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman