DRN-1239604
 
The complaint
Mr S says Connells Ltd mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Mr S applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Connells disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and I'll explain why. Connells recommended the 
policy to Mr S but I dont think it was suitable for him. I say this because the policy included a 
provision that said:
'You are not covered for
1.  Your disability or unemployment caused in whole or in part by:
g.  any sickness, disease, condition or injury which you knew about or ought to have known 
about or for which you received advice, treatment or counselling within the 12 months before 
the start date.'
Mr S had medical conditions when he bought the policy which would not have been covered. 
The policy also included a specific exclusion for conditions similar to one of the conditions Mr 
S suffered from.
I dont think Mr S would have bought the policy if Connells had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what the business did wrong. 
Connells points out that when it first contacted Mr S about his complaint he didn't mention 
any health issues. So it considers he may not have mentioned them when he applied for the 
policy in 2005. I've noted everything Connells has said. 
It's not unusual for there to be some discrepancies between information that customers 
provide during the course of a complaint. I've taken account of the information that Mr S has 
provided to this service, and noted the detail he's provided. On balance, I don't think it's unreasonable for me to accept what he's said about the medical conditions he says he 
suffered from, and what he told Connells about them at the time. So I still think I should 
uphold the complaint.
Connells has also pointed out that the adjudicator also upheld the complaint on the basis 
that documents from the point of sale weren't available. It considered that was unfair.
I don't intend to make any findings on that point, because I'm satisfied that Connells' 
recommendation to buy the policy wasn't suitable - which means the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Putting things right
Connells should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Connells should:
Pay Mr S the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Connells can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Connells to take off tax from this interest. Connells must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Connells Ltd to compensation to Mr S in 
line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman