DRN-4093842
The complaint
Mr S complains about notifications hes received from Clear Score to say credit searches 
had been carried out. Mr S explains that the notifications didnt match credit searches 
recorded on his credit file.
 
What happened
Last year, Mr S contacted Clear Score after receiving notifications that credit searches had 
been completed by a company Ill call C. But when Mr S checked his credit file, the credit 
searches werent recorded. 
Clear Score issued a number of responses to Mr S, generated a manual credit report and 
explained that there are occasions where it receives notification of new information relating 
to a customers credit file that is either reported in error or that a technical issue caused the 
reporting company to retract them. Mr S asked Clear Score to provide a full list of the 
notifications it had sent. Initially, Clear Score asked Mr S to raise a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) to obtain the notification list. But when Clear Score responded to Mr S 
DSAR it said the notification list couldnt be provided in a reasonable format. 
Mr S complained and Clear Score issued a final response in November 2022 but didnt 
agree it had made mistakes with the information recorded on his credit file or the 
notifications it sent. Clear Score gave further background setting out why notifications may 
not have led to searches being recorded on Mr S credit file. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, Clear Score provided the list of notifications sent to Mr S during 2022 and it 
was forwarded to him. Our investigator thought Clear Score had dealt with Mr S complaint 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked to appeal and said the investigator 
appeared to have made assumptions or guessed why the searches appeared or 
disappeared without obtaining evidence to support their response. Mr S also queried why 
Clear Score had given the investigator a list of notification but failed to send it to him directly.  
Mr S asked to appeal the investigators view of their complaint so his case has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr S contacted Clear Score and asked it to explain why the 
notifications he received didnt always lead to searches being recorded on his credit report. 
But I think its fair to note that Clear Score has explained it isnt a credit reference agency 
itself. Clear Score obtains credit file information from one of the main credit reference 
agencies in the UK that Ill refer to as E. And Clear Scores confirmed that it receives notice 
of searches and new information from E that leads its systems to send out notifications to 
customers. 
Clear Score goes on to explain that there are occasions where it receives notice that new 
information, like a credit search, will be recorded but that the record isnt subsequently 
provided by the reporting business. As a result, despite sending a notification in advance, 
the details provided arent always added to a customers credit file. I understand Mr S would 
like a more comprehensive explanation, but Im satisfied Clear Score has reasonably 
confirmed why notifications dont always result in the information being recorded on his 
credit file. 
Mr S asked Clear Score to send him details of the notifications it sent him but, despite asking 
for a DSAR, that information wasnt initially supplied. Clear Score was able to provide the 
notification list to our investigation who has passed it onto Mr S. When Clear Score 
responded to Mr S DSAR it explained it couldnt provide the notification list in a reasonable 
format so didnt send it to him. Ive looked at the information on the notification list and its 
reasonably technical in nature. I appreciate Mr S wanted this list at an earlier point, but Im 
satisfied Clear Score has now provided the details requested. Whilst I agree there was a 
delay, Im satisfied Clear Score was ultimately able to provide Mr S with the relevant 
information. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Clear Score dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman