DRN-3489891
The complaint
Mr C and Miss O complain that a used car they got with finance from Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr C and Miss O acquired this car under a conditional sale agreement (CSA) in February 
2020. They replaced the battery within a few days of supply and they also had concerns 
about safety. They found the supplying dealer was unhelpful and asked a specialist third 
party garage (TPG) to inspect the car. The TPG found a number of issues including a door 
latch fault, inner drive shaft gaiter split, front to rear brake pipes heavily corroded/dangerous, 
tyres worn below the legal limit and bald on the edges, air suspension bag dust cover 
perished, uneven wear to front brake pads, battery insecure/clamp missing, upper 
suspension arm slight play, multiple sensor faults and the timing belt needed replacing.
Miss C and Mr O complained to Moneybarn who arranged for an independent expert to
provide a desktop assessment in May 2020. He considered the car had numerous defects,
the majority of which were only advisory but would require attention in the near future. He
thought the cost of repairs would not be considered acceptable so soon after supply and the
supplier would be responsible. 
Moneybarn upheld the complaint and sent a final response letter (FRL) to Mr C and Miss O
on 6 July 2020 offering to arrange and/or pay for the repairs required  estimated then at
nearly £990. The repairs actually cost more than that and Mr C and Miss O subsequently
supplied two invoices from the TPG totalling just over £1,300 which Moneybarn paid.
In December 2020 the car broke down and Miss O and Mr C complained to Moneybarn
again. Moneybarn arranged for an independent expert to inspect in January 2021. He found 
(in summary) a new gearbox was needed as one of the transmission oil cooler pipes
had developed a leak and discharged fluid and a constant transmission fluid drip from one of
the pipes between the automatic transmission and the oil cooler was noted. 
The expert thought this was a maintenance issue probably caused by wear and tear, such 
as minute fractures developing due to fatigue, porosity, corrosion in pipe joints or damage to 
threads - or internal damage due to using the vehicle with insufficient fluid. Given the car had 
covered 10,000 miles since supply, the expert didnt think this would have been present at 
the outset. He considered it would likely have been apparent within about 500 miles of use.
Moneybarn didnt think it should be held responsible in these circumstances  given the 
experts conclusion that the problem was wear and tear/maintenance related and not there 
at the outset. Moneybarn recognised there was some delay in dealing with the complaint 
however and paid Miss O and Mr C £100 for associated distress and inconvenience.
Mr C and Miss O didnt think that was fair - the car is off the road and they want to reject it
and receive a refund. So they referred to matter to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She was satisfied that Moneybarn agreed 
to pay for repairs required early on and then arranged and paid for an independent 
inspection when further issues appeared. She thought this was reasonable. And she wasnt 
persuaded that the gearbox fault is likely to have been present when Mr C and Miss O got 
the car - taking account of the experts conclusions and the cars age and mileage at the 
outset and distance travelled since then. The investigator considered the problem was 
probably the result of wear and tear. She didnt find it likely the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C and Miss O remained unhappy. They say the TPG checked the car and found it was
leaking fluid and would have been doing so for months. They supplied an email from the
TPG that said the issue is not a common fault, it would not be classed as wear and tear and,
while it was impossible to tell when the pipe cracked, it was obviously a very gradual process
- as the gearbox holds about seven litres of oil and Mr C and Miss O would have noticed if it
had all come out at once.
The investigator considered the new evidence but she didnt change her mind. She was
satisfied the TPG didnt say the fault was likely present at the outset - it considered this could
have happened in the 10,000 miles covered, albeit there might be an argument in terms of
the MOT advisories and the issues that were rectified early on. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded the current issue is likely to have been present at the point of supply and she 
remained of the view the complaint should not be upheld. So Mr C and Miss O asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. They said (in summary):-
the car had a dead battery at the point of supply  they think the dealer must have
jump started it for the test drive;
they werent told about advisories on a previous MOT even though Miss O asked
about this specifically and the dealer said there wasnt anything she needed to be
concerned with;
the car must have been sold with a fake MOT because the advisories arent there
now and the car was sold with a clean pass rate - yet all of the earlier advisories
needed repairing within the first few months then the gearbox failed;
they acknowledge the expert found it impossible to say if the crack in the pipe was
there at the outset but consider this is unlikely to be due to wear and tear;
given the multiple faults and MOT failures its reasonable to conclude that they were
sold a faulty car which wasnt fit for purpose;
Moneybarn failed to answer calls and correspondence and they had to hire a
replacement vehicle as Miss O needs transport for her work as a medical
professional; and
Miss O had to hire a car in January and February and lease another car in March,
she was unable to pay for this and her credit score was affected adversely which has
all been very stressful.
My provisional decision
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to let 
the parties see my provisional conclusions and make further submissions (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2022 and an extract from that is set out below (in 
italics). This forms part of my final decision.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr C and Miss O bring this complaint to our service because Moneybarn supplied the car
under a HPA. Im satisfied Moneybarn was required to ensure that this car was of
satisfactory quality at the point of supply - under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). What
amounts to satisfactory quality varies depending on individual circumstances. In the case
of a used car, I think its reasonable to take the cars age, cost and mileage into account.
The car cost just under £13,000, it was first registered in 2013 and the mileage recorded at
the time of purchase was about 108,000. I think a reasonable person would accept that
some parts would be worn and likely need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later in a car
like this. And thats reflected in the lower price paid for a used car compared to the price of a
brand new vehicle.
There seems to be no dispute that the car broke down in December 2020 because of a
problem with the gearbox. I can see the expert found there was a constant transmission fluid
drip from one of the pipes between the automatic transmission and the oil cooler  and he
identified the likely fault was a cracked pipe and thought this was probably age related and
due to wear and tear or maintenance issues.
It looks as if the TPG agrees the problem here was a cracked pipe leaking transmission fluid
 although it considers the fault is not wear and tear related. The TPG thinks the fluid loss
must have been a gradual process and fluid would have been leaking for months  because
Mr C and Miss O would have noticed if all seven litres of transmission fluid had come out at
the same time.
Im not persuaded its reasonable to say either all of the transmission fluid must have come
out in one go or the pipe leaked so slowly that fluid would have been lost unnoticed over
several thousand miles of use. Im satisfied the TPG has acknowledged that, whilst it would
like to assist Miss O and Mr C, it cant say when the crack in the pipe came about. And this
same TPG, that inspected the car in July 2020 and carried out the repairs required then,
found no issue with the gearbox at that time.
Im satisfied the expert is independent and I think he seems to have appropriate
qualifications and experience. I find his report to be fairly detailed and I consider it is
reasonable to give some weight to what he says in this situation. I think the experts
conclusion that a leak like this is likely to have become apparent within 500 miles or so of
use makes sense. And I consider this seems to be consistent with the other evidence. 
On balance, I find it unlikely that Mr C and Miss O would have been able to drive the car as 
far as they did if this issue had been present or developing when they got it. And, taking into
account the cars age and mileage at the outset and the distance covered, Im minded to
agree that this problem is probably wear and tear or maintenance related.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded its likely this car has a fault that was present
at the outset. This means I cant fairly hold Moneybarn responsible and I cant reasonably
require Moneybarn to take the car back or pay for repairs or do anything else. I realise this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss O and Mr C, as its not the outcome 
they wanted. I have sympathy for the situation they find themselves in. I appreciate they feel 
this problem must be connected to the faults found early on and/or previous MOT advisories. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest thats the case however and, as Ive explained in a separate 
decision, this service is unable to look into their first complaint now.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any comments or 
new information by 19 May 2022. And I explained that Id review all the evidence available 
after that date and make my final decision. 
Mr C and Miss O havent made any further submissions and Moneybarn had nothing to add. 
I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. 
On balance, I remain of the view its unlikely this car has a fault that was present at the 
outset. So, I cant reasonably require Moneybarn to take the car back or pay for repairs or do 
anything else.
I realise this is not the outcome Mr C and Miss O hoped for and Im sorry if they feel let 
down. They are not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open to them 
to pursue this matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman