DRN-4355704
The complaint
Mr V complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr V responded to a job advert and was sent a number for someone who Ill refer to as the 
scammer who claimed to work for Company G. The scammer, who Mr V understood to be 
the hiring manager, contacted him via WhatsApp told him about an opportunity to make 
money by buying USDT through a cryptocurrency exchange company and using it to make 
orders on Gs website. 
The scammer told Mr V to buy cryptocurrency and then send it to the scam company as 
payment for the orders. Between 12 December 2022 and 14 December 2022, he made 
sixteen transfers to six different accounts totalling £2,367 from his Starling account. During 
the scam period he also received three credits into his account totalling £34. 
Mr V realised he was the victim of a scam when he was asked to pay money to withdraw 
funds from the website. He complained to Starling, and it refused to refund any of the money 
hed lost. It said it was unable to consider the claim under the CRM code because the funds 
were paid into an account in his control, and the money was lost after the USDT credited the 
cryptocurrency exchange account. It said it was unable to provide any reimbursement and 
his claim lay directly with the cryptocurrency exchange. It also said it wouldnt be able to 
mediate the payments as faster payments arent covered under the Mastercard chargeback 
scheme. 
Mr V wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Starling should have 
done more to protect him against the scam by stopping the payments and calling him to 
warn him that the job was a scam.
Starling said the payments werent high value or high risk, however Payment 11 was flagged 
on 13 December 2022 and Mr V stated he was paying for web services and had received 
the service/item. It said Mr Vs responses didnt reflect the situation and as he confirmed 
hed already received the item/service, it had no cause for concern and released the 
payment. Later the same day Mr V was presented with a scam warning when he set up the 
payee details for Payment 13 and the details didnt match. On this occasion he 
acknowledged this and proceeded with the payment. 
Starling further stated there was no evidence Mr V had done any background research on G 
and if hed researched the opportunity, he would have realised it wasnt genuine. In 
particular, he ignored the fact he wasnt given any employment documentation, he was 
asked to use his own money and he was communicating with the scammer via WhatsApp. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained the CRM code 
wouldnt apply to the payments because there was no evidence the beneficiary account 
holders intended to defraud Mr V. She explained the beneficiaries were third parties who 
were selling the cryptocurrency and Mr V received cryptocurrency, which he then sent to the 
scammers.
She didnt think Payments 1 to 10 were unusual as the account had a history of transfers of 
similar value as well as multiple credits and transfers made on the same day. She said 
Starling contacted Mr V when he tried to make Payment 11 and that he confirmed was for 
Web services, and that hed received the services he paid for. Considering the value of the 
payment, she was satisfied the intervention was proportionate and that his response meant it 
was reasonable for Starling to have released the payment.
She explained Starling intervened again when Mr V made Payment 13 because the 
beneficiary account name didnt match the name Mr V provided. She noted the warning 
shown on the screen didnt have any information relating a particular scam, but she didnt 
think the payment was unusual or that the fact the beneficiary didnt match was reason to 
block the payment, so she was satisfied it was reasonable for Starling to have released the 
payment.
Finally, she noted the remaining payments were in line with the earlier spending on the 
account, so she didnt think Starling needed to intervene again.
Mr P has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Hes questioned why 
our investigator has rejected his complaint having said Starling should have done more and 
why she said the CRM code didnt apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr V has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr V says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Starling has said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the money was lost after the USDT credited the cryptocurrency exchange 
account, and Im satisfied thats fair. The payments werent fraudulent because Mr V 
received the cryptocurrency he paid for, so the CRM Code would not apply to the disputed 
payments.
Similarly, as he received the cryptocurrency, I wouldnt expect Starling to recover the funds 
from the recipient accounts.
Im satisfied Mr V authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr V is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was a scam. But, 
although Mr V didnt intend him money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Starling is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Starling could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were to legitimate accounts. However, Starling had an obligation to be 
alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to 
consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr V when he tried to make the 
payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Starling to 
intervene with a view to protecting Mr V from financial harm due to fraud. 
Ive considered the nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or 
uncharacteristic of how Mr V normally ran his account and based on the fact the payments 
were low value payments to different beneficiaries, I dont think the Payments 1 to 11 were 
suspicious or unusual. Payment 11 is the fifth payment to the same beneficiary on the same 
day and so its reasonable that it flagged, and Im satisfied the nature of the intervention was 
proportionate. Mr V stated he was paying for Web services and that hed received the 
service he paid for and so Im satisfied it was reasonable for Starling to have released the 
payment based on the information it had.
Starling intervened again on the same day because the payee details didnt match the name 
Mr V provided. On this occasion, he was given a generic scam warning, which he 
acknowledged before proceeding with the payment. Im satisfied the nature of the 
intervention was appropriate and I dont think it needed to do anything else in respect of that 
or any of the later payments.
Im sorry to hear Mr V has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Starling is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman