DRN-4084387
The complaint
The estate of Mr W has complained after The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) paid out two distributions which they said were in error, before requesting the 
funds were returned.  
What happened
The late Mr W passed away in April 2021. An advisory firm were assisting the estate with 
financial matters.
Mr W held an inheritance bond with Prudential. Which consisted of a whole of life
policy and an endowment policy. They received proceeds from the whole-of-life part of the
plan which was in trust on 27 October 2021.
Prudential subsequently noted that distributions had incorrectly been paid to the estate in
June and September 2021. They say this was because they werent made aware of Mr Ws 
date of death from the advisers until September 2021.
Prudential asked the estate to repay the distributions (approximately £9,100) before they
release the remaining value of the second plan (approximately £3,700). The estate of Mr W
are unhappy with this. They say it wasnt their fault the distributions had been made and
argued that there was a delay in receiving all proceeds which had caused them financial 
loss, so they complained.
Prudential say the estate werent entitled to the distributions and that they were paid in error 
through no fault of theirs. They maintain that the amount should be returned. 
The estate of Mr W wasnt happy and brought the complaint to our service for review. An
investigator looked into it, but didnt think Prudential were at fault and didnt think it was 
unfair of them to ask for the amounts back. 
The estate of Mr W remained unhappy. As no agreement was reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The estate of Mr Ws adviser contacted Prudential in May 2022, to advise of Mr Ws passing. 
They were told that Prudential needed a death certificate and date of death (which they 
didnt have at the time they made the call). This was needed to stop the policy and ensure 
the quarterly distribution payments didnt continue. 
The advisory firm have acknowledged separately they should have made Prudential aware 
earlier of the necessary information. They have taken responsibility of this and made an offer 
of compensation for any delay in the estate receiving due proceeds. 
I dont believe Prudential have done anything wrong. The payments were made in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. They didnt have the necessary information in May 2022 to 
stop the policy and so I dont think they have made an error. 
It follows that the estate has received funds (£9,1000 approximately) that they werent 
entitled to and have incorrectly had the benefit of. I cant say Prudential are doing anything 
wrong in asking for this money to be returned. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman