DRN-3302016
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent the proceeds of her 
investment to her joint account, rather than her sole account as she requested. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I understand this issue has been very frustrating for Ms M. She made a clear request for 
money to credit her sole account and instead, it credited her joint account. And she says this 
has caused her distress and inconvenience.
Our service has already issued a final decision on Ms Ms complaint against her bank. In 
summary, the ombudsman was persuaded by the evidence presented by her bank, that it 
credited the account it was instructed to. I havent considered the actions of Ms Ms bank. 
I have considered the actions of Aviva. It has provided compelling evidence it received Ms 
Ms instruction to make the payment to her sole account and did so. This includes, but isnt 
limited to, a Bankers' Automated Clearing System (BACS) trace and various payment 
records. 
I accept something has gone wrong here. And I accept Ms M will be frustrated - 
understandably so. But I must decide this case on the evidence available to me. Based on 
the evidence, I cant fairly conclude Aviva is to blame for whats happened here. It follows I 
cant fairly require it to pay her compensation as shes asked.
In any case, even if I could fairly conclude Aviva made an error, I would be unlikely to make 
an award in line with what Ms M expects. I say this because even though the amount 
credited the wrong account, Ms M rectified this quickly, mitigating any inconvenience. She 
has said the error resulted in her ex-partner becoming aware of the funds. However, I can 
see the investment was being paid into from their joint account, so I dont think I could fairly 
conclude he wouldnt have been aware of it but for this error. 
I know it will be frustrating for Ms M that I cant explain what went wrong here. But from the 
evidence I have been provided with, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
Both Ms M and Aviva responded to say that they accepted my assessment and had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted the findings set out in my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add, there is nothing more for me to consider and my decision is as I set out. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman