DRN-2901236
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc allowed an unidentified third party to use his debit 
card details to make online purchases. Santander have issued Mr H with a new card and 
refunded the disputed transactions, but he feels this is something Santander should have 
prevented from happening in the first place. He also queries why his new card is from a 
different card scheme.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr H told Santander that he didnt recognise several transactions to an 
online merchant. These totalled around £513 and took place over a five-day period. 
Santander refunded the transactions whilst it contacted the merchant. Santander have since 
confirmed that Mr H can keep the refunds.
Mr H complained in March 2021 that Santander shouldnt have let the transactions happen. 
In its final response letter Santander:
explained that whilst its security system monitors all transactions, these transactions 
didnt meet the criteria for additional review;
said they couldnt determine how Mr Hs card details had become compromised, but 
noted his card had been registered with the online merchant a few weeks before the 
first transaction;
directed Mr H to information about how to protect himself from further unauthorised 
account activity; and
explained his new card was from a different card scheme because theyd changed 
that for all debit cards in 2019.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response. He told us hed not purchased anything from this 
online merchant for many years and that someone had used his card details and 
impersonated him. He said the online retailer and Santander should make their fraud 
detection systems more secure and use the services of companies who monitor data 
breaches and specialise in data security. He said Santander should be more proactive in 
preventing fraud.
Santander told us that theres no evidence the bank is responsible for the compromise of 
Mr Hs card details. They added that its not always possible to identify how a third party has 
obtained a customers card details.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said Santander had done the right thing 
by cancelling Mr Hs card, issuing him a new one and refunding the transactions which hed 
told them he hadnt authorised. She explained Mr Hs card details could have been 
compromised in a number of ways, but there was no evidence that Santander were 
responsible for this. She also didnt think there was anything unusual about the payments 
which ought to have prompted Santander to block them before Mr H called Santander to 
raise his dispute.
Finally, she said Mr H hadnt been impacted by Santanders decision to change card 
schemes. So, she wouldnt be asking them to do anything more about that.
Mr H didnt accept this. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, and for the same 
reasons.
It seems more likely than not that Mr H was the victim of fraud here, and that the 
transactions to the online merchant werent authorised by him. Its notable that whoever had 
registered Mr Hs card details with the online merchant continued to try and use the card for 
a week after Mr H had reported the fraud.
Its recognised that unauthorised payments can and do happen from time to time. And 
because of that the Payment Services Regulations 2017 make it clear that customers will 
only be liable for unauthorised transactions in very limited circumstances. Santander have 
accepted that Mr Hs isnt liable for the disputed transactions on this occasion. Hes been 
refunded.
I appreciate that Mr H was caused some distress when he first noticed the unauthorised 
transactions, and hes of the view that these should never have been allowed to occur. But I 
also note that Santander acted quickly to lessen that distress by agreeing a refund while 
they investigated what had happened further.
Mr H thinks Santander should have been more proactive in protecting his funds. But whilst 
there are occasions when we do think banks should query payments  for example, when 
the account activity appears suspicious or unusual, or is uncharacteristic for the account or 
customer  I dont think it would be fair to say that Santander should have stepped in when 
someone started using Mr Hs card details with the online merchant.
Santander have shown that Mr Hs card details were registered with the online merchant 
some weeks before the first transaction. Although this was more likely than not something 
the unknown third party did, it gave the impression Mr H had a current and legitimate 
customer relationship with the merchant. And when the transactions began, they happened 
gradually over five days, not in quick succession. They also werent particularly high value. 
So, I cant fairly say the bank should have identified these transactions as suspicious.
Overall, I find that Santander acted fairly and reasonably by responding quickly to Mr Hs 
report of unauthorised transactions, blocking further use of the card and refunding him. So, I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
For completeness I also agree with what the investigator said about Santanders decision to 
change the card scheme it uses. There is nothing to say that Mr H has, or will be, impacted 
by this change.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman