DRN-3822594
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC which resulted in 
Lloyds closing his accounts.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why, but before I do so, I want to clarify that I've taken into account Mr S detailed 
submissions about what happened, his concerns and why he remains frustrated. However, if 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think 
is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: did Lloyds act unfairly and 
unreasonably when it closed Mr S account?
While the testimonies of Mr S and Lloyds differ substantially, there are aspects of the 
complaint which are undisputed. But I would like to point out that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
 Mr S has admitted to our service over the phone that he called a member of Lloyds Bank 
little Hitler and in written correspondence to our service he said:
I was accused of calling the manager a pocket Hitler after he pressed the button to call the 
police. In my opinion this Hitler statement which I do not withdraw.
Lloyds have also said that due to the offensive language Mr S used it chose to end its 
banking relationship with him. Both parties also confirm that the police were called to the 
branch on 16 September 2022.
I have considered Lloyds terms and conditions, having done so, I can see they say:
We can end this agreement (or account, benefit or benefits package or service) without 
telling you in advance if we reasonably think that:
you are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive or threatening to our 
staff or including abusive or threatening messages in payment instructions.
Mr S has said he should have been given a warning about his behaviour prior to the 
manager closing his account. But I am satisfied Lloyds made Mr S aware prior to him 
opening the account that if he used language which was unacceptable it could close his 
account without warning. This is clearly outlined in the Terms and Conditions which Mr S 
would have agreed to prior to him opening the account. 
Mr S says the Manager based his opinion on events which had happened in the past. 
However, after reviewing the system notes and staff testimony, I can see that on 12 
September 2022 it is documented that Mr S used inappropriate language and would be 
spoken to about this when he next visited the branch. During this visit staff members state 
that Mr S said:
all women are good for is childbirth
And in this visit, staff have also provided a testimony stating that Mr S called the bank 
manager a pocket Nazi. 
NatWest system notes also show that on 16 September 2022 Mr S returned to branch and 
was invited into a private office to discuss the comments he made on 12 September 2022. 
The notes suggest Mr S refused to discuss the matter privately, so it was discussed in the 
banking hall. They go on to say that Mr S didnt think there was anything wrong with the 
language he had used and became irate, so he was warned if he continued his account may 
be closed. Mr S continued to be abusive and was asked to leave. As he didnt leave the 
branch the police were called.
I appreciate that Mr S and Lloyds version of events of what happened on 12 September 
2022 and 16 September 2022 differ substantially. However, on balance I am persuaded by 
the banks recollection of events. I say this because both sides agree that Mr S called a 
member of Lloyds little Hitler or words to that affect. And in Mr S testimony to our service 
he admits to saying it and hasnt retracted it, which is in line with Lloyds testimony about Mr 
S stating there was nothing wrong with the language he used. And both parties agree that 
the police were called. So, I think it is likely Mr S continued to use language which was 
unacceptable and refused to leave the branch which led to the police to be called.
I understand Mr S wanted our service to review the police report from what happened after 
they were called to the branch. But at this stage I dont think this is relevant as this doesnt 
negate the fact Mr S by his own admission used offensive language to staff members prior to 
the police arriving. He was aware Lloyds may close his account if he used offensive 
language. So, I think it is reasonable to conclude that this type of language directed at staff 
members is offensive and unreasonable. As such, I am satisfied that Lloyds acted in line 
with its Terms and Conditions when it chose to close the account.
Mr S has said the reason he visited branch was to raise a complaint based on the 
misinformation provided by Lloyds regarding direct debit transfers. While I dont dispute that 
Lloyds made errors in relation to the opening of Mr S account, I dont think it warrants Mr S 
language he used in branch, which ultimately led to his account being closed. As such, I 
wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further in regard to this.
Overall, I am satisfied that Lloyds acted in line with the Terms and Conditions of the account 
when it chose to close Mr S accounts. As such I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman