DRN-3843863
The complaint
Miss M complains about a used car she acquired through a finance agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. She has had problems with the car from very shortly after 
acquiring it and a problem with the cars Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) still persists. 
What happened
Miss M acquired a used car in late August 2021. The car was approximately six years old 
and had travelled 92,074 miles. Miss M used a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
to acquire the car and the amount of credit was £6,489. The credit, along with interest, was 
to be repaid over 60 months with repayments of £203.66 each month.
Miss M says very shortly after getting the car she returned to the dealership as there was an 
unexpected noise when the car was driven over bumps. Work was done on the car to 
address this and in mid-December 2021 the car was taken back to the dealership after Miss 
M reported the engine management light had illuminated. An issue with the cars DPF was 
identified and it I understand the dealership did a forced regeneration at that time. Miss M 
took the car back but says that the same issue reoccurred swiftly after collecting the car. 
After raising concerns with the dealership, Miss M also contacted Moneybarn as the supplier 
of the car. Moneybarn did not uphold Miss Ms complaint and referred to an independent 
inspection report to support its findings. The inspection of the car was carried out on 13 May 
2022, by which time the car had travelled 102,121. In summary, the inspection report 
concluded that in relation to the current issues with the DPF, the fault on the vehicle would 
not have been developing at the point purchase and the faults have developed since 
purchase. The report referred to the DPF having not regenerated for 6,493 miles and the 
engine management light being illuminated for 6,369 miles. The report concludes the car 
possibly suffered from drive on damage.
Miss M did not accept Moneybarns conclusions and referred the complaint to our service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who explained why they did not uphold the 
complaint. Miss M asked for her complaint to be reviewed and it has therefore been passed 
to me for consideration as the last stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe I will disappoint Miss M further as I have come to broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator and I have not upheld Miss Ms complaint. 
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. Im very aware that I have summarised in much less 
detail what has been submitted by the parties in this complaint. In deciding this complaint 
Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on 
every issue or point made in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss M or 
Moneybarn, but reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Miss M acquired a used car through the conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn is the owner of the vehicle, until such time as Miss M makes all the repayments 
under the agreement. As owner, Moneybarn is also the supplier of the car and as such it is 
responsible for the quality of the car at the point it was supplied. This is because the 
Consumer Rights Act (CRA) implies a term around satisfactory quality into the conditional 
sale agreement and the car should therefore be of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss 
M.
I think it is important to note that Moneybarns obligations around the quality of the car apply 
to the time of supply. They do not apply to the general upkeep and maintenance, servicing or 
more general faults and repairs that are often required with cars as they age and increase in 
mileage. When considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality a number of things 
would usually be considered. In this instance, when considering the quality of a car, the age 
and mileage of the car at the time it was supplied are in my view key considerations. So for 
example, a brand new car would have different expectations to a used and considerably 
cheaper car. Those expectations would therefore be lower in a used or older higher mileage 
car, when compared to a new car.
In this instance Miss M was acquiring a used car that was around six years old and had 
travelled over 92,000 miles. As already mentioned above, a car of this age and mileage 
would not be expected to be in the same condition as a brand new car, which would have 
cost considerably more than the price Miss M paid. Considering the age and mileage here it 
would not be unreasonable to expect the car to be showing some signs of wear and tear. 
This would be in relation to its general overall appearance but also the underlying 
components, such as the exhaust system or DPF.
Miss M had some initial problems that were addressed by the dealership in relation to the 
steering or suspension. While these components would not be considered serviceable items 
in the same way as brakes and tyres, they will however wear over time and miles. They may 
therefore need replacing at same stage later in the cars life. The issue with the components, 
which caused the noise while going over bumps, was however addressed by the dealership 
without cost to Miss M, which seems reasonable here. 
The more significant issue appears to relate to the DPF not working correctly. This 
component will suffer wear and tear and as it acts like a filter can become blocked. It is 
designed so that it self-cleans, but it can however become blocked after some years and 
miles of use. Although Miss M had some very early issues with the car, I understand it 
wasnt until more than three months after she acquired the car that she started experiencing 
issues with the DPF. By this time the car had travelled approximately 3,000 miles, on top of 
the 92,000 miles it already had. Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected and the 
conclusions of the report were that while it was clear the car was now defective in relation to 
the DPF, it was unlikely that the defect was present when the car was supplied.  
I accept it is possible that the DPF was significantly blocked and perhaps to a point of over 
saturation when Miss M acquired the car. The car had travelled 92,000 miles and may have 
been experiencing issues with the DPF before it was sold. But having considered the 
evidence in this case, Im not persuaded that was the case. I consider it more likely than not 
that the DPF only started to experience issues after Miss M acquired the car and added 
more miles to the 92,000 it had already travelled. This is not an insignificant amount of miles 
for a car. 
Had the DPF been defective when the car was supplied to Miss M I believe she would have 
experienced problems with the DPF sooner, as it would have been almost immediately apparent. I think it is unlikely Miss M would have been able to use the car for around three 
months and 3,000 miles if the DPF was defective when the car was supplied. I think it more 
likely than not that the DPF had experienced wear and tear over the 92,000 miles, before 
Miss M got the car, and it was the subsequent use that then caused the issues. 
Miss M argues that the law covers repairs and replacement parts for the first six months and 
the DPF should therefore be repaired. This is not however correct and there is no 
requirement for all cars, especially where the car was six years old and had travelled 92,000 
miles when supplied, to have all repairs covered within the first six months. 
As already referred to above, Moneybarn is responsible for the quality of the car at the time it 
is supplied and not all ongoing issues or problems that arise later. The CRA does deal with 
goods not conforming to the contract within the first six months of supply and this is often 
referred to as the 6-month burden of proof. The CRA states that where goods are found not 
to have conformed to the contract within the first six months, it is presumed the goods did 
not conform to the contract at the time of supply. Unless the supplier can prove otherwise.
Reference to not conforming to the contract relates to the goods not being of satisfactory 
quality and this is different to the goods simply being defective. The defect must be 
considered alongside the broader circumstances, which as I have set out here, would 
include the car being around 6 years old and having travelled 92,000 miles. The DPF issues 
not being apparent until after three months and 3,000 miles is also a consideration. As I 
have found that the car was of satisfactory quality in relation to the DPF issues, Moneybarn 
would not be responsible for any repairs now required. 
While I can appreciate it will be disappointing that things have gone wrong with the car and 
Miss M faces a potentially significant repair bill to fix, or more likely replace, the DPF, this is 
not something that I consider Moneybarn to be responsible for. 
My final decision
I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed with the conclusions I have reached here but for the 
reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint against Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman