DRN-3730244
The complaint
Mrs A complained that ReAssure Limited (when it was trading as Legal & General L&G) 
gave her and her late husband unsuitable investment advice.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs A by a claims management company but to 
keep things simpler, Ill mainly just refer to Mrs A as the complainant.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A sought investment advice from ReAssure in 2007 after they were prompted 
to speak to a financial adviser. 
Acting on ReAssures recommendation, in February 2008, Mrs A and her late husband 
invested a lump sum of £30,000 in a discretionary managed portfolio bond. 
It was agreed Mr and Mrs A had a cautious attitude to risk and that they were looking to 
invest as they wanted their funds to have greater potential for growth compared to 
conventional deposit-based savings accounts.
They invested in L&G Life Gartmore MM Cautious Fund, L&G Property Fund and Invesco 
Perpetual Corporate Bond Fund until August 2011 when Mrs A requested to switch to the 
L&G Life MM Income Fund. As far as I am aware, the whole of the investment went into this 
fund. 
She surrendered the investment in March 2012 and received £30,539.
Mrs A felt that, as inexperienced investors, she and her late husband were advised to take 
too much risk when investing. 
When Mrs A complained to ReAssure, it said her complaint was out of time and it was too 
late to complain about what happened in 2007. An ombudsman decided that we could 
investigate Mrs As complaint. So one of our investigators looked into what happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. She felt overall that 
ReAssures investment recommendation had been reasonable as it broadly reflected 
Mrs As risk attitude and met the recorded investment objective of capital growth. 
Our investigator was satisfied that Mrs A had ample emergency cash savings to fall back 
on if needed. So she didnt feel she had seen enough to uphold the complaint.
Mrs A disagreed. She mainly said that as a first time investor with a large amount to invest, 
the risk level recommended was too high. She said she didnt express any interest in 
investing into commercial property  that was the suggestion of the adviser who explained it 
to be low in risk. Mrs A was aware some risk was necessary in order to achieve the potential 
for greater returns but said the Property Fund in particular was not within the realms of a 
cautious investor.
Mrs A asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive reached different conclusions 
to our investigator. Ill explain why. 
When thinking about whether ReAssure gave Mr and Mrs A suitable investment advice, 
keeping in mind that all investment carries some degree of financial risk, Ive thought about 
the following key questions:
were Mr and Mrs A in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest? If so,
thinking in particular about the amount invested and the risk this involved, was the 
investment advice ReAssure provided suitable for Mr and Mrs A?
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs As financial situation in 2007 
when ReAssure provided investment advice and made its recommendations to 
Mr and Mrs A. 
I dont know the full extent of discussions about their financial situation. But looking at 
ReAssures Fact Find document completed during meetings in November and December 
2007, when Mr and Mrs A sought advice from ReAssure they had around £42,000 in a 
deposit account, made up of cash savings and an inheritance. Mr and Mrs A were self-
employed and even though Mr A was close to retirement age, they told the advisor they both 
wanted to keep working as long as possible in their business which provided a net joint 
monthly income of £1,400. They didnt pay any mortgage or rent. Their general food, 
household bills and other living costs brought their monthly expenditure to around £900. 
So it looked like Mr and Mrs A wouldve had disposable income of £500 each month. 
Theres nothing to suggest they expected to have any large expenses or that they had any 
big spending plans for their money. They were happy with their monthly income and 
expenditure levels.
So I think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs A looked to be in a position where they could afford 
to invest some of their savings with the aim of capital growth.    
The advisor had recommended Mr and Mrs A should keep an emergency fund of £2,800. In 
the event, Mr and Mrs A chose to keep cash savings of £12,000 on deposit.
 
ReAssure recommended Mr and Mrs A to invest the remaining £30,000 they had available. 
I dont think the amount they were recommended to invest was too much for them in their 
particular circumstances. And so Ive gone on to think carefully about whether the portfolio 
ReAssure recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs -which seems to me to be 
the central part of Mrs As complaint.
Mr and Mrs A told ReAssure they were familiar with National Savings and Stocks and 
Shares (although it doesnt appear they had any real experience of investing in stocks and 
shares). So I think it's fair to say their financial experience was limited. ReAssure needed to take this into account and ensure Mr and Mrs A were given the advice they needed to 
understand their investment options before accepting the recommendation. 
ReAssure has produced paperwork including a Fact Find document showing that 
Mr and Mrs A were asked a series of detailed questions to find out what they thought about 
their financial situation and what they wanted their money to achieve for them. 
Mr and Mrs A both signed the Fact Find document on 4 December 2007 so I think it is 
reasonable to rely on the information to reflect what was discussed at the time. 
The relevant part of the Fact Find describes various levels of risk and prompts the adviser 
to take some time to consider things fully with clients. And it does look to me as if risk was 
considered in some detail. 
Mr and Mrs A said they were disappointed with the returns on their deposit based savings 
and wanted to have some additional growth potential over and above what their money 
could earn in a deposit account. It appears that there was some discussion about different 
types of investment including stocks and shares. National Savings were discussed and 
discounted by Mr and Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A accepted ReAssures recommendation and elected to invest £15,000 each in 
total made up of £9,900 in L&G Property Fund, £10,200 in L&G Gartmore MM Cautious 
Fund and £9,000 in Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond Fund. 
Some of the 2007 paperwork is no longer available  thats unsurprising after so long. But 
information from 2008 about these funds shows the Property fund was categorised as 
moderate  the other two funds were cautious (which fits with the other information I've 
seen). 
Its recorded that the overall level of risk Mr and Mrs A wanted to take with their money was 
cautious. 
ReAssure categorised a cautious risk as : You are willing to invest in non-cash assets and 
are comfortable that there may be some exposure to the stock markets. 
Like our investigator, based on this description, I think it was fair for ReAssure to 
recommend Mr and Mrs A to invest in funds rated cautious.
But I have concerns about the suitability of the recommendation made to invest in the L&G 
Property Fund which was rated as having a moderate risk.
On a scale that rated risk levels (as minimal-cautiousmoderate-high), the adviser 
assessed Mr and Mrs As attitude to risk as cautious  which was just one level above 
minimal, which was only suitable for people who wanted to invest in cash deposits. 
That seems reasonable to me in terms of reflecting Mr and Mrs As circumstances and likely 
attitude to risk. 
I say this because I think it is apparent from the Fact Find notes that Mr and Mrs A were 
wary of stocks and shares  they mentioned to the adviser theyd heard many horror 
stories about this type of investment. This suggests to me that they were quite cautious with 
their money and not likely to want to take on very much extra risk even in the pursuit of a 
better return on their money.Im mindful also that Mr and Mrs A wanted to keep back from their investment pot around 
four times as much money as the adviser recommended would be prudent to allow for 
unexpected costs or emergency spending. Although Mr and Mrs A had told the adviser that 
they werent expecting to have any large costs or big items of expenditure they still kept back 
an amount equivalent to around nine months joint income. The fact Mr and Mrs A were 
anxious to ensure they had a lot more cash to hand than the adviser thought their 
circumstances required to my mind reinforces the other indications that they were quite 
anxious investors unwilling to take much of a chance with their money.  
So, to my mind, its hard to understand how ReAssure could justify recommending 
Mr and Mrs A to invest around a third of the money they had set aside for investment in a 
fund with a moderate risk rating  keeping in mind that, relatively speaking, they didnt have 
a substantial investment pot nor were Mr and Mrs A practised investors looking to develop a 
portfolio. I think all the signs were that they simply wanted to grow some of their money 
without taking on any serious level of risk. 
The Fact Find records that having also discussed other areas available for investment, 
including commercial property and fixed interest securities, Mr and Mrs A were happy to 
accept these within their portfolio as they liked the idea of having a balanced and diversified 
mix of investments. ReAssure provided a range of documents to Mr and Mrs A which 
showed information about the various funds available to invest in which covered the 
spectrum of risk. Mr and Mrs A were also presented with illustrations showing how their 
money could grow  although it was stated that the figures were examples only and not 
guaranteed. It explicitly warned: You could get back more or less than this.
But I cant see anywhere that ReAssure made it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the net result of 
accepting its recommendation to invest in the Property Fund would mean that around a 
quarter of their money in total would be at a higher risk than the level at which the adviser 
had identified they were comfortable. I cant see that moderate risk was explained to them 
in terms tailored towards helping Mr and Mrs A to understand relative risk. For instance, 
explaining to them that investing in property was likely to be at least as risky as investing in 
some stocks and shares  which the adviser already knew posed risks that Mr and Mrs A 
werent keen on.
Given that investing in commercial property was more risky than keeping their money in 
cautious rated funds, which more closely reflected Mr and Mrs As attitude to risk, I would 
expect to see in the point of sale paperwork more evidence that this was fully explained to 
Mr and Mrs A  and that they had properly understood the risk they were taking with their 
money in the Property Fund. 
I dont think its likely that happened because Mrs A told us that she thought her 
investments were low risk. Mrs A has said the idea of investing in commercial property 
came from ReAssure and it wasnt something she or her husband had previously 
considered. So I dont think she wouldve had any particular reason to choose this 
investment other than at the recommendation of the adviser  and Im not persuaded by 
what I've seen so far that its likely Mr and Mrs A wouldve chosen the Property Fund if the 
adviser had properly made them aware of the risk they were taking with their money.  
I've taken into account that ReAssure said that although the Property Fund was classed as 
moderate risk, in each risk category there was a range of risk and, in reality, the Property 
fund wasnt significantly riskier than the L&G Gartmore MM Cautious fund. And it made up 
only a third of Mr and Mrs As portfolio so the overall risk was mitigated and still mostly 
cautious. But I still think it's fair to say that Mr and Mrs A gave clear indications that they were 
nervous about taking risk  and investing in property was always going to be riskier than 
was likely to be suitable when they had demonstrated a cautious attitude to risk. 
Its noted in the Fact Find that .. After our discussions about the benefits of a balanced and 
diversified portfolio, you were prepared to accept a limited exposure to stocks and shares. 
We also discussed other areas available including commercial property and fixed interest 
securities which you were happy to accept within your portfolio as you liked the idea of 
having a balanced and diversified portfolio.
I appreciate that the higher risk fund potentially gave Mr and Mrs A access to a higher 
return, in addition to spreading their investment risk. But I dont feel that ReAssure has 
shown me enough overall to allow me to say it has sufficiently justified why it was suitable 
to advise Mr and Mrs A to invest in a fund with a risk rating above cautious  when it had 
established they had a cautious approach to risk and all the indications were that this 
accurately reflected the limit of their risk attitude. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A 
wouldve chosen not to invest in the moderate risk Property Fund had it been adequately 
explained to them that even if the potential returns were correspondingly higher, investment 
in property wasnt low risk.
So, I am planning on upholding this complaint in part  to be clear Ive only found that the 
advice to invest £9,900 into the Legal & General Property Fund was unsuitable.
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs A as close to the position she would probably now be in if she and Mr A had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I think its likely that the funds invested in the property fund would 
most likely have gone into the other two cautious funds  likely on a broadly equal split basis 
 so 50% in L&G Gartmore MM Cautious Fund and 50% in Invesco Perpetual Corporate 
Bond Fund. Or otherwise, into other investments that reflected their cautious attitude to risk.
I set out in my provisional decision the way I expected ReAssure to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mrs A.
ReAssure told me it has nothing further to add and it will await my final decision.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and ReAssure for responding to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To compensate Mrs A fairly, ReAssure must:
Compare the performance of Mrs As investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
ReAssure should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Legal & 
General 
Property 
FundNo 
longer in 
forceFor half the investment into 
this: L&G Gartmore MM 
Cautious Fund 
and for the other half, in 
Invesco Perpetual Corporate 
Bond Fund.Date of 
investmentDate 
L&G 
Property 
Fund 
switched 
or 
ceased 
to be 
held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal from the Legal & General Property Fund should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ReAssure totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:Mrs and Mr A wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The performance of the cautious funds they also invested in at the same time would 
be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without 
risk to their capital.
I consider that Mr and Mrs A's risk profile was cautious, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take only a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
redress I have proposed would reasonably put Mrs A into that position. It does not 
mean that Mrs A and Mr A would have invested all their money necessarily in the 
other cautious funds they invested in. But, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs and Mr A could have obtained from 
investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mrs A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman