DRN-4453352
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about their building warranty provider National 
House-Building Council (NHBC) regarding a claim they made for damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Os home was built in 2015 and benefited from a ten-year defects warranty. In 
2022 they noticed damp and mould on a bedroom ceiling. NHBC inspected the damage and 
found a hole in the roof underlay directly above the damaged ceiling. It said that the underlay 
and ceiling had been damaged, in years three to ten of the warranty, by requirements not 
having been met when the house was built. So, it accepted that section 3 of the warranty 
applied. However, it said the claim would fail given the cost of repair fell below the policys 
minimum claim value (MCV) of £1,800. 
Mr O told NHBC that quotes hed obtained for the work ranged from £2,000 to £3,000, at 
least partly due to the cost of replacing damaged roof tiles. So Mr and Mrs O felt that 
NHBCs decline was unfair, and likely based on a deliberately, and unreasonably, low cost 
for work. NHBC disputed the need to replace roof tiles. When it wouldnt change its position, 
Mr and Mrs O complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator felt NHBC had acted fairly and reasonably. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs O were unhappy. They felt NHBC hadnt shown they could get the 
work done for less than the MCV. They asked that it be made to instruct five building 
contractors to price the work and if they all return prices above the MCV, that NHBC should 
complete the work. Mr and Mrs O noted NHBC had put forward other reasons for declining 
the claim as well. Our Investigator considered Mr and Mrs Os reply and responded. He 
confirmed his view on the complaint had not changed. The complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is a worrying situation for Mr and Mrs O, I understand that although the 
wet winter months have begun theyve not fixed their roof as theyve felt unable to do so. 
I understand thats a worry for them. However, I dont think NHBC has done anything wrong 
on this occasion in declining their claim, such as to warrant me requiring it to either accept 
this loss or to even carry out further investigations such as requested by Mr and Mrs O. 
NHBCs warranty does not offer cover for any and all damage howsoever caused. It is a 
warranty which provides different levels of cover, depending on the number of years since 
the property was built. In years three to ten of the warranty, cover is offered for damage 
caused by the builder failing to build certain parts of the home in line with NHBCs 
requirements. The cost for putting right the failure to comply with the requirements isnt 
covered in this section. Only the damage the failure caused. 
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to communicate all of its liability concerns to a warranty 
holder. I understand though that NHBCs inspectors view on the damage  the 
damp/mouldy ceiling and the hole in the underlay  was that it had likely been caused by a 
failure to comply with its building requirements. Although NHBC wasnt specific as to what 
failure of which requirement(s) had occurred. But the presence of damage caused by a 
failure does not trigger cover in its own right. Rather the policy specifies that NHBC will be 
liable for repairing the damage caused by the failure if the cost to it exceeds the MCV. 
NHBC said its cost to repair the ceiling and underlay was £1,300. NHBCs report didnt find 
any roof tiles were damaged. Rather it explained that for a tiled roof, in extreme weather 
some water can get under the tiles, and this normally just drains down the underlay and into 
the gutter. But, here, the damaged underlay had caused water to enter the roof space, 
causing further damage to the ceiling. So theres no evidence from NHBCs report to suggest 
the roof tiles were damaged, or that if they were that was on account of a defect. NHBC put 
together a quote for repairing the underlay and fixing the ceiling. That came to less than the 
MCV, which reasonably meant it was not liable under the warranty for repairing the damage.
I know the cost to repair for Mr and Mrs O will likely be more than that set out by NHBC, and 
so more than the MCV. But that is because NHBC can do the work for less due to the 
contracts it has in place. I also note that Mr and Mrs Os quotes include replacing damaged 
tiles  based on an assumption that there are a number of tiles damaged (and which will 
require a whole pallet of new tiles to be purchased). Even were I to accept an assumption 
reasonably shows there are damaged tiles, that wouldnt show they were damaged by a 
defect covered under the warranty, thereby making NHBC liable for replacement. Im not 
persuaded the quotes Mr and Mrs O have provided show that NHBC has priced the work at 
a deliberately and/or unreasonably low cost. 
I understand that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs O to know that their home wasnt bult in line 
with requirements which has caused damage, and which they must now pay to fix. 
I understand thats especially the case where they have a warranty which they thought would 
assist them in this situation. However, on this occasion, Im satisfied that NHBC responded 
fairly to the claim by declining it on the grounds the damage in question doesnt reasonably 
fall for cover under the warranty because the cost to it to repair is less than the MCV. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman