DRN-2837278
The complaint
 Miss Bs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
 
What happened
 This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2008, at the same time as 
a loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered Barclayss comments, but I have still decided to uphold this complaint. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss B but, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time, I dont think Barclays should have recommended it. I say this because Miss B 
had for many years suffered from a chronic illness, and the policy said:
We will not pay benefit for a disability that is the result of any of the following:
- a pre-existing medical condition. We will not apply this exclusion if, at the time of 
claim, you have been symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment 
for at least 2 years
Miss B has described how she suffered regularly from the symptoms of the illness, 
sometimes acutely  such that it could affect her everyday life, and sometimes she had to 
take time off work and sometimes had to take stronger medication, on top of her regular 
medication. She says she continued to receive treatment in the period before the PPI 
started. 
I dont think Barclays drew this restriction in the policy clearly to Miss Bs attention. I dont 
think shed have taken the PPI if it had, as shed probably have thought it likely a claim 
would be linked to her pre-existing condition, and so wouldnt be paid. 
My conclusion is that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
Miss B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been. 
And she paid more than she should have each month. So Miss B needs to get back the 
extra she paid.
So, Barclays Bank UK PLC should cancel the policy (if its still running) and:
Work out and pay Miss B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss B paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest 8% a year.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss B compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman