The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain on behalf of their business (F) that HDI Global SE unfairly declined 
its claim following a fire at its premises.
Mr and Mrs F have been representative throughout the claim and complaint. However for 
ease of reading any reference to Mr and Mrs F also refer to the actions of their 
representative. 
HDI Global SE has also been represented in the latter part of the claim and this complaint. 
Again, any references to HDI include the actions of its representative. 
What happened
F had an insurance policy with HDI. The policy was renewed in April 2019. In May 2019 
there was a fire at Fs premises and Mr and Mrs F contacted HDI. It sent an investigator to 
inspect the premises in order to work out the likely cause of the fire. 
Following receipt of the report HDI declined Fs claim. It said it declined the claim as three 
policy conditions had been breached:
Smoking conditions.
Removal of waste.
Reasonable care.
It said that the fire was likely started by a cigarette in a small enclosed storage area just 
outside a covered archway. It said this area didnt meet the requirements in the policys 
smoking condition. And when interviewed, an employee had said he smokes there regularly. 
And that he had done so around 45 minutes before the fire. 
HDI said that combustible materials were stored in the covered archway and that was a 
breach of the policys removal of waste condition. 
And finally, it said the fact combustible materials were stored inappropriately was raised in a 
risk assessment completed at the start of the year. And the fact this wasnt acted upon 
shows that Mr and Mrs F didnt take reasonable care to avoid the risk of a fire, breaching the 
third policy condition.  
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair. They said that in order to breach the smoking 
condition they would have to allow staff members and guests to smoke in that area. They 
said they didnt allow this. Instead they had a designated smoking area that met the 
requirements. So they felt they couldnt be held responsible for those who breached the 
rules they set. 
DRN-1937782Further they said that the condition about storage of combustible materials required storage 
to be at least two metres away from the building. They said it wouldnt be possible for them 
to comply with this based on the build of the premises. So they didnt think it was fair for HDI 
to rely on this condition.
Finally they said they had always complied with recommendations to fire proof the premises 
in the past. The only reason they hadnt taken the action required by the risk assessment on 
this occasion was as it had only been classed as medium risk and not urgent. So they 
didnt think it met the definition of reckless as required under the reasonable care condition. 
As they were unhappy with HDIs declination they brought their complaint, on behalf of F, to 
this service. 
On notifying HDI of the complaint, it responded to confirm its position on the declinature as 
outline above. Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy with this. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that she thought it was most likely that Mr and Mrs F were aware that employees 
smoked in the enclosed area. And that they had acted recklessly by not moving the 
combustible materials after they were highlighted in the risk assessment. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with this assessment. They said they had tried to enforce the 
smoking policy by reprimanding staff for smoking in the enclosed area. However they 
couldnt force people to comply. Further they said it wasnt fair to penalise them for not 
meeting a condition in a policy that it wasnt possible to meet. And it wasnt possible for them 
to store the combustible materials two metres form the building. They asked for their 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDI has declined Fs claim as it says a number of policy conditions werent met. I have 
considered whether I think it has treated F fairly and reasonably when maing the decision to 
decline the claim. 
The first condition it relied upon is as follows:
14) Smoking Condition
It is a condition precedent to the Insurers liability for Damage caused by Insured Perils 1 
and 3 that
a)enforce a no smoking policy at the Premises which complies with current legislation
b)only allow smoking in clearly marked specifically designated smoking areas which comply 
with current legislation
c) in all designated smoking areas provide metal receptacles with metal lids for the safe 
disposal of waste smoking materials
d) ensure that waste smoking materials when being removed from the designated smoking 
areas are kept separate from other combustible waste material and are stored in metal 
receptacles with metal lids whilst awaiting final removal from the PremisesSo in order to meet this condition, smoking should only take place in designated smoking 
areas. And in these areas, there should be a number of measures in place such as metal 
receptacles with lids to dispose of waste.
So when looking at whether F breached this condition, Mr and Mrs F would need to prove 
that the enclosed area was either not a designated smoking area and therefore a no 
smoking policy was enforced. Or that it was a designated smoking area and the other parts 
of the condition were met. 
In this case Mr and Mrs F say that the enclosed area wasnt a designated smoking area. And 
they didnt allow smoking in this area so didnt provide the required items as listed in the 
condition. 
HDI has said it is likely that Mr and Mrs F were aware that staff members and guests were 
using the enclosed storage area as a smoking area. And took no action to stop this and 
therefore were not enforcing a no smoking rule as required in the policy.
When HDIs investigator attended Fs premises after the fire, they conducted an interview 
with the chef who had been working the night of the fire. He said he had been smoking in the 
enclosed area just before the fire. Further he said the area was often used by staff, regulars 
and guests for smoking. 
Mr and Mrs F have said that they werent aware of this and they cant be held accountable 
for people breaking rules that they put in place. 
The investigators report includes a number of photos of the enclosed area. The photos 
show receptacles, including a flower pot, that were used as ashtrays. There were also 
numerous cigarette butts and some discarded cigarette packets in that area. The chef who 
was interviewed said there were two upholstered chairs in the area with flower pots next to 
them where smokers sat and discarded their cigarette ends. 
From looking at the photos and the report I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs F were 
unaware that the area was used for smoking. Even after the fire, a lot evidence still remained 
that clearly indicated smoking regularly took place, so it seems likely that it would have been 
even more apparent beforehand. For this reason, I think it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs F 
actively enforced a no smoking policy in the area. As it would have been clear to them that 
this was taking place.
So as Ive seen no evidence that a no smoking policy was enforced. And Ive seen evidence 
to suggest that the area was clearly used for smoking, I am satisfied that the smoking 
condition in the policy has been breached
I have also considered whether HDI applied this condition fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstance. Areas where people smoke, and therefore discard cigarettes, are likely to 
pose an increased fire risk. This is why there is legislation to ensure designated smoking 
areas are clear and appropriate. It is also likely that this is why the policy contains this 
condition  to ensure that the risk smoking areas present is reduced. 
In this case the report carried out by HDIs investigator concluded that the fire was most 
likely started in the enclosed area. Most likely from a discarded cigarette. So the fact the 
policy condition has been breached, appears to have led to the incident. So if the condition 
had been followed, the risk may have been reduced. So the condition was material to the 
claim. I therefore think HDI has acted fairly and reasonably by applying this condition and by 
declining Fs claim.As I agree that HDIs application of the smoking condition was fair, I havent considered the 
other conditions it applied when declining the claim. As the smoking condition alone provided 
enough for it to fairly decline the claim. 
So although I empathise with the situation Mr and Mrs F are in and understand how difficult it 
must be, I cant say that HDI has done anything wrong here. So I think it has treated 
Mr and Mrs F fairly when declining their claim. I therefore wont ask it to do anything 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require HDI Global SE to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F on 
behalf of F to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman