DRN-3632177
The complaint
Mr W complains that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Limited (Trinity) has unfairly refused 
to meet his insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W has an accident insurance policy provided by Trinity. It provides cash benefits for 
injuries and disablement in certain situations.
Mr W came off his motorbike in late December 2020 and broke the little finger on his right 
hand. It was treated and the fracture healed, but Mr W was left with a twisted finger and 
pain. Mr W says hes been left permanently disabled and unable to work. When he lodged a 
claim with Trinity it said Mr Ws injury didnt meet the criteria in the policy, so it wouldnt meet 
the claim.
Mr W complained, but Trinity didnt change its position, so he asked us to review his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Trinity need do more. She thought Trinity had fairly applied the 
terms and conditions of the policy to Mr Ws claim, and that although he might not have been 
able to work when he last obtained a report from his GP, it didnt say he would never be able 
to work. She thought Trinity had reasonably relied upon this when it said his claim didnt 
meet the policy terms and conditions.
Mr W doesnt think this is fair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this isnt what Mr W wants to hear, so Ill explain how I reached this conclusion.
Trinity is required to assess the terms and conditions of a policy fairly when deciding if it will 
meet a claim. Mr W has claimed that, as a result of an accident, hes now permanently 
disabled.
Its clear Mr W did have an accident, so Id expect Trinity to then check to see if the resulting 
injury meant Mr W has a valid claim.
I can see that Trinity assessed Mr Ws injury under two parts of the policy  loss of limb and 
permanent total disability. Trinity has relied upon various medical reports to reach its 
conclusions, which is a fair way of obtaining the necessary information.
To have a claim met under loss of limb Mr W would need to have either had his hand 
amputated or to have lost the use of his entire hand. I havent seen any reports that suggest 
Mr W cant use his hand at all. I can see he told Trinity at one point that there was an option 
for him to have his hand amputated. However, thats not reflected in the medical reports, so I 
dont think Trinity need consider this further. 
Trinity also looked at whether Mr Ws claim could be met under total permanent disability. 
The terms and conditions for this say that Mr W mustnt be able to do any sort of paid work 
because of his injury. This must be the case 12 months after the accident and be likely to 
continue indefinitely. I think its reasonable for Trinity to have that confirmed by a medical 
expert.
Mr W sent a report from his GP that says hes currently unable to work  but thats not the 
same as saying his injury means hell never be able to do any form of work. 
I note that earlier medical reports suggest Mr W didnt think that the physiotherapy he 
received would improve his injury and felt he needed corrective surgery. I dont know if thats 
been carried out or the result of the surgery. It may be that Mr W does have a permanent 
disability to his finger, but that doesnt mean Trinity has unfairly refused to meet Mr Ws 
claim.
Trinity says it will obtain an independent medical report on Mr Ws long term ability to work if 
required  but that it doesnt think this will affect its decision. I think thats reasonable, as it's 
unlikely that an injury to a little finger would result in total permanent disability as described 
in the policy. 
Having said that, if Mr W wishes to obtain a medical report on his injury and how it 
permanently affects his ability to do any sort of paid work, Id expect Trinity to re-consider the 
claim. If that meant Trinity met the claim, (and Im not saying it would) then Id expect Trinity 
to refund to Mr W the cost of the report, if any. But based on the information currently 
available, I think Trinity has assessed Mr Ws claim fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman