DRN-2742283
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the level of service he received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) during a claim made under his home emergency insurance for a 
property that he rents out. 
What happened
Mr J contacted British Gas to report that the downstairs radiators werent functioning 
properly at a rental property he owns. 
On 1 November 2020 an engineer attended the property and advised that a power flush was 
needed. Mr J had a power flush completed by a third-party engineer who advised the pump 
was weak and said that hed closed off four radiators to complete the power flush.
The problems persisted after the power flush and Mr J complained to British Gas on 
9 November 2020 about this. 
A British Gas engineer returned to his property on 14 November 2020 and adjusted a 
leaking valve. It was also noted during this visit that four radiators hadnt been flushed and 
the pump was still in place. As the flush hadnt been fully completed the engineer advised 
Mr J to raise this with the third-party engineer that had completed the power flush. 
Mr J contacted British Gas again on 20 November 2020 by phone and email as he was 
unhappy that a response to his complaint hadnt been received and the pump hadnt been 
replaced. He called again on 25 November 2020 as there were still issues with the heating. 
Mr J chased a response to his complaint on 31 December 2020 and was advised that British 
Gas had eight weeks to respond. 
Mr J referred the complaint to this service on 4 January 2021 as he was unhappy that British 
Gas hadnt replaced the pump and hadnt replied to the complaint. He felt that this was 
something they should do and asked that they compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused by the delay in doing this.  
On 6 January 2021 a visit had been arranged for a landlord safety check. However, it 
appears Mr Js agent also notified British Gas that the radiators werent working, and the 
engineer completing the check was asked to look into this issue. He reported that a diverter 
valve was stuck and that he had freed this and the heating was left in a working condition. 
He also commented that the pump wasnt new but was working and advised Mr J to contact 
British Gas if there were any further issues. 
Mr J called British Gas on 11 January 2021 to report that the heating was working but that it 
wasnt performing well. So, a further visit was arranged for 16 January 2021.
The engineer that attended on 16 January 2021 reported that the pump was working, and he 
didnt believe this was causing the issue but replaced it to be sure. After replacing it the 
engineer found there was little to no improvement to the system. He also reported that the 
system struggled to fill up again and the feed and expansion tank was full of sludge 
indicating the power flush either hadnt been completed fully or was done incorrectly. 
As British Gas were unable to answer Mr Js complaint in time, they sent him a summary 
resolution communication on 14 January 2021 and gave him referral rights to this service.
After the complaint was referred to this service British Gas confirmed the pump had been 
replaced and offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint and felt that British Gas had made a 
fair offer of compensation to put things right for him. But Mr J disagreed, saying the pump 
should have been replaced before the flush, and the power flush couldnt be completed 
properly because of the weak pump. He said that British Gas hadnt completed a water test 
which was the only way to test the success of the power flush. He also didnt think the offer 
of £100 was fair given the trouble this had caused him and the loss of rent hed suffered 
when he agreed a lease renewal with his tenant. 
Mr J also complained that the investigator hadnt considered the issues that arose with the 
flue and felt this should be taken into account. The investigator explained that as this didnt 
form part of his original complaint to this service and the matter was still on going with British 
Gas, we wouldnt be considering the issues with the flue.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J initially complained to British Gas about the radiators not working and the pump not 
being replaced when he believed it should have been. After he complained to British Gas 
about this, but before he referred the complaint about the pump to this service, issues with 
the flue were identified. Ill address Mr Js concerns about the flue at the end of this decision. 
Issues with the radiators and pump
Ive first considered whether British Gas have acted fairly and reasonably when investigating 
the issues Mr J reported with the radiators between November 2020 and January 2021, and 
whether the compensation offered fairly recognises any inconvenience caused.  
Having reviewed what happened between the engineer first attending on 1 November 2020 
and the pump being replaced on 16 January 2021, Ive come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator on the merits of the complaint. I will explain why.
Mr J is of the opinion that the pump should have been replaced before a power flush was 
completed. However, I note that page 10 of the policy terms and conditions explain that the 
policy cover is limited to All repairs to:. the controls that make the boiler work including 
the. central heating pump. As the pump was working at the time of the first engineers 
visit, and didnt need to be repaired, I dont agree it would have been reasonable to replace 
this before a power flush had taken place. 
 
Its clear from the engineers notes that either a power flush was needed or the power flush 
that had been performed wasnt fully or properly completed, evidenced by the remains of 
sludge in the system. Mr J has said the third party he employed turned off four radiators to increase the pressure, but he hasnt provided any evidence from that engineer that this was 
necessary because of the pump. 
Mr J has also said that a system water test wasnt performed, so British Gas have no 
evidence the power flush that had taken place wasnt completed properly. Ive considered 
Mr Js point here, but I dont think its unreasonable for British Gas to conclude that the 
power flush hadnt been completed properly or was incomplete, where sludge was still 
visible in the system. Mr J was advised to raise this with the third party that had completed 
the flush, but I cant see he did this. 
All of the British Gas engineers that visited the property in relation to this issue were of the 
opinion that the main cause of the issues with the radiator was sludge and debris in the 
system. But ultimately, because Mr J was concerned about the pump, British Gas did go on 
to replace the pump on 16 January 2021, which I think was more than what they were 
required to do under the policy terms and conditions. However, the engineer reported that 
following the installation of the new pump, there was little to no improvement of the heating 
issues. 
I understand Mr J believes the pump was the main cause of the issues and should have 
been replaced sooner. But based on the evidence available to me, Im more persuaded by 
the expert engineers comments which suggest the main cause of the issue was sludge and 
debris in the system and this isnt covered under the policy. The engineers notes following 
the visit to the property on 1 November 2020, recorded: Confirmed blockage in system 
water jet black advised power flush/boiler. British Gas alerted Mr J to this on 
1 November 2020 and noted the power flush hed had completed wasnt successful on 
14 November 2020 and again on 16 January 2021, but it doesnt appear Mr J arranged for 
any further cleaning or system flushes until after the engineers visit on 16 January 2021. 
Its possible British Gas could have replaced the pump at an earlier date, but the pump was 
working and replacing it made very little difference to the issue. So, I dont think British Gas 
reluctance to replace the pump was unreasonable or delayed the resolution of the issue. 
Mr J has complained that he intended to increase the monthly rent on the property by £50 
but was only able to achieve £25 because of the issues with the heating. Ive considered this 
but note that the policy doesnt provide cover for loss of rent. However, I have taken this into 
account in coming to my decision on whether any compensation is due to Mr J for the overall 
distress and inconvenience British Gas handling of his claim has caused.
I can understand Mr J was frustrated by the lack of response to his complaint, but I cant see 
that he suffered a detriment because of this. British Gas responded to Mr J giving him his 
referral rights to this service ten days outside of the 56 days they are allowed. However, it 
appears Mr J was aware of his right to complaint to this service as he contacted us on 
4 January 2021 which was exactly 56 days from him raising a complaint. I appreciate the 
wait and the lack of a final answer would have been frustrating for Mr J, but I dont think its 
had a material impact on the resolution of his complaint.
Im pleased to see the pump has been replaced to reassure Mr J, but I do think that British 
Gas could have been clearer with him throughout the process and Im of the view that Mr J 
was caused some inconvenience by the lack of clarity. British Gas has already made an 
offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Issue with the flue
After Mr J had complained to British Gas about the radiators not working and the pump not 
being replaced as quickly as he thought it should have been, issues with the flue were identified. British Gas provided us with some information about the flue but as this was an 
ongoing issue and hadnt been raised as a complaint with British Gas or this service, we 
havent considered it under this complaint, and we let British Gas know it should continue 
corresponding with Mr J on this matter. 
A business must be given an opportunity to resolve a complaint before this service can 
consider it. As the issue with the flue was ongoing and a complaint hadnt been raised, I 
dont think this has happened in relation to the flue. So, given this issue didnt form part of 
the original complaint to British Gas or this service it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
consider this here.
If Mr J remains unhappy with how British Gas have handled the flue issue, he would need to 
raise a complaint directly with British Gas and if he remains unhappy with their response or 
no response is given within the eight weeks allowed Mr J can ask us to look at this. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr J £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman