DRN-2359139
The complaint
Mrs K, through her representative, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unreasonably in 
asking her to visit a branch to provide proof of her identity despite her health issues. She 
says, as a result of its approach, she was left without funds for almost a week. 
What happened
Lloyds put a block on Mrs Ks account following a fraud alert. Lloyds told Mrs K that shed 
need to visit a branch to provide proof of identity.
Mrs K says she suffers from a number of longstanding and serious health issues. As a result 
she has significant problems with her mobility and has to use a wheelchair. Mrs K says that 
when she opened her account in 2018 she made Lloyds aware of this.
Mrs K says that, after her account was blocked, she made a number of calls to Lloyds to try 
to find out to how to resolve this and was told it might be possible to arrange a home visit, 
although it wasnt guaranteed. Mrs K says she didnt get a home visit, however, and the call 
back she was promised also didnt take place. She says she wasnt able to talk to the branch 
manager as the bank wouldnt provide his number.
Mrs K feels Lloyds hasnt taken her circumstances into account, in particular her health 
concerns and that it was unreasonable to ask her to go into the branch. She feels shes been 
discriminated against because of her health and is disappointed that Lloyds isnt able to offer 
a reasonable service to vulnerable customers like her. 
Lloyds agreed some of the information it had given Mrs K about her complaint was 
confusing. It offered Mrs K £65 for her distress and inconvenience plus a further £18 towards 
her calls.  However, although the advisor had agreed to email the branch to see if a home 
visit was possible, there was no guarantee this would happen. For that reason it felt it was 
still reasonable to ask Mrs K to visit the branch with proof of her identity so that she could 
start using her account again as soon as possible. 
Our investigator didnt feel Lloyds had done as much as it could to help Mrs K with the 
problems on her account. She could see Mrs K had reiterated the information about her 
health when she spoke to Lloyds after the block was put on her account. But although Lloyds 
says it has a process in place for helping vulnerable customers, there was nothing to show it 
had explained this to Mrs K, either when the account was opened or after the problem arose 
in 2019. Our investigator noted that Mrs K had provided extensive evidence of her health 
concerns going back many years so she felt it plausible that Mrs K would have mentioned 
this when she opened her account in 2018. 
 
She noted that Lloyds had offered a total of £83 compensation to Mrs K but she didnt think 
this was enough to reflect the impact this event had had on Mrs Ks physical and mental 
health. Mrs K had provided medical evidence to show the impact this situation had had on 
her and our investigator didnt feel Lloyds had taken this into account.  In the circumstances 
she recommended an increase in the compensation to £500.
Lloyds accepted our recommendation but Mrs K rejected it and said the compensation 
wasnt enough to reflect the impact of what had happened on her. She said the stress and 
upset had affected her health and led to her being admitted to hospital and she didnt feel 
this had been taken fully into account. She asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs Ks complaint is being brought by her representative but for ease of reference 
Ill refer to Mrs K throughout.
Its accepted that Lloyds put a block on Mrs Ks account when a fraud alert was triggered. As 
a result, Mrs K wasnt able to use her account until she was able to provide proof of her 
identity. Lloyds told Mrs K shed need to go into a local branch in order to do this but Mrs K 
feels this was unreasonable as she has serious health and mobility issues.
Lloyds like all banks is required to have effective fraud prevention methods in place. This is 
to protect the bank and its customers. And once it detects a problem then its required to 
take the appropriate steps to ensure the security of the account hasnt been breached. So it 
wasnt unreasonable of Lloyds to ask Mrs K to verify her account when a fraud alert was 
triggered on her account.  
However, Mrs K has a number of serious and longstanding health concerns and Im not 
satisfied Lloyds has taken this sufficiently into account in the way its dealt with this matter. In 
particular, although Lloyds says it has a policy for dealing with vulnerable clients, I cant see 
it put this into effect in Mrs Ks case despite the extensive evidence of the problems shed 
had with her health.
I can see Mrs K believes what Lloyds has done goes beyond poor customer service. She 
says she felt discriminated against because of her medical conditions.  I can understand why 
feels this way, and I do think Lloyds hasnt quite grasped how its actions have made Mrs K 
feel.
I note Lloyds says it doesnt have any record of Mrs Ks health problems before she raised 
the complaint but, even if that were the case, Im satisfied Mrs K made it aware of them 
when she contacted it after the block was put in place. At that point Id have expected Lloyds 
to have done more to assist Mrs K and to have discussed what other options might be 
available. It didnt and for that reason I dont think Lloyds has acted fairly or reasonably.
Mrs Ks explained that because she wasnt able to go into the branch for several days she 
wasnt able to access her account and she was left without funds for almost a week.  I can 
understand how upsetting and inconvenient this must have been for Mrs K and again Id 
have expected Lloyds to have offered Mrs K more support once it was aware of this.Ive seen Lloyds offered to email Mrs Ks local branch to see if a home visit could be 
arranged, although tit explained this couldnt be guaranteed. I think that was reasonable 
because the decision whether to offer a home visit must depend on the individual 
circumstances in each case and the ability of the branch to make it available. However, as it 
policy on vulnerable clients explains, there are other options that it could have offered. It 
didnt do so and it seems that, even at this stage, Lloyds hadnt fully appreciated the 
difficulties Mrs K was facing. 
For these reasons I dont consider that the compensation offered by Lloyds is sufficient to 
reflect the upset and distress of whats happened to Mrs K. 
Putting things right
Ive taken into account that Mrs K didnt have access to her account for several days but I 
cant see that theres been any financial loss in this case so what Im looking at is the upset 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs K as a result of whats happened. 
Mrs Ks explained that she had to make a number of calls to the bank to try to sort out the 
problem. Shes also said that a number of the promised call backs didnt take place and that 
in the end she was forced to visit the branch despite her mobility problems. She found this, 
and the fact that she didnt have access to her money for several days, stressful and 
upsetting.  Mrs Ks also said that the day after the block was put in place, she was admitted 
to hospital and feels this was in part to blame. Mrs Ks referred to our website and says £500 
is for administrative issues rather than the more serious problems that shes had. For that 
reason, she doesnt feel its sufficient.
I should explain that the information on our website is for guidance and the actual amount 
will depend on the circumstances in each individual case. Theres no precise way of 
calculating such awards but Ive taken into account the impact on Mrs Ks health, the upset 
and inconvenience caused by what happened, and the time that it lasted. 
I appreciate how upsetting this experience was Mrs K and I think its understandable that it 
will have had a significant impact on her but its clear that Mrs Ks health problems were 
present before this event occurred so I cant reasonably say that it was the cause. However, 
I accept that because Lloyds didnt provide further support, as I think it reasonably ought to 
have done, it unnecessarily exacerbated an already worrying time for Mrs K for longer than 
was needed. Taking all this into account, I consider that £500 is reasonable and fairly 
reflects the upset and inconvenience caused by what happened with her account. 
I note that Lloyds has already offered Mrs K £83 and, if this has already been paid, then 
Lloyds can deduct this from the £500 awarded.
Im pleased to see that Lloyds and Mrs K have now made change to the way Mrs Ks 
account is managed and hopefully this will avoid any similar problems occurring in the future
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs K 
£500 in total for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of what Lloyds 
did wrong.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman