DRN-2910432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about errors and delays when they repaid their mortgage with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. They ask for compensation for their financial loss, distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S wanted to repay their mortgage. In October 2020 they sent a cheque for the 
amount shown on the redemption statement, which was about £305,000. They called 
Barclays about a week later as the cheque hadnt cleared. Barclays said it hadnt received 
the cheque. Mr and Mrs S stopped the cheque. 
Mr and Mrs S tried to make a BACS payment but were unable to do so. So they visited their 
Barclays branch to make payment by cheque over the counter. The money debited their 
account. However, it wasnt applied to their mortgage account for some months and despite 
many phone calls to Barclays they couldnt find out what had happened. They were worried 
the money was stolen. It wasnt until mid-February 2021 that the matter was sorted out. In 
the meantime, Mr and Mrs S received arrears letters for not paying their mortgage and were 
worried theyd be visited by bailiffs. 
Barclays accepts it made an error when it didnt process the cheque payment properly. It 
backdated the mortgage repayment to the date in October 2020 that Mr and Mrs S visited 
the branch to make the cheque payment and offered £250 compensation for their upset. 
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs S were caused considerable worry, both about what had 
happened to their money and about being visited by bailiffs for not paying the mortgage. He 
said Barclays should pay a further £250 for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said they have financial loss as they didnt receive interest 
on the money for four months. And £500 isnt enough for their distress.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts it made errors here. So I have to consider if its done enough to put matters 
right.
Barclays backdated the repayment of the mortgage to 20 October 2020, the date Mr and 
Mrs S paid their cheque over the counter. I think this is right and fair. 
I dont agree that Mr and Mrs S have financial loss because they didnt receive interest on 
their money for four months. Had Barclays processed the cheque properly the money would 
have been applied to repay the mortgage on or shortly after 20 October 2020. Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have received interest on the money between October 2020 and February 2021 as 
it would have been used to repay their mortgage. 
Of course, if Barclays had processed the cheque payment properly the mortgage would 
have been repaid on or about 20 October 2020. Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have incurred any 
mortgage interest after that. Barclays backdated the repayment of the mortgage to 20 
October 2020 which means Mr and Mrs S havent paid interest after that date. I think this 
puts matters right in terms of Mr and Mrs Ss financial position. 
But the impact on Mr and Mrs S wasnt just financial and I think its right that Barclays pays 
compensation for the worry and inconvenience this caused them. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation as a percentage of the redemption 
payment, as Mr and Mrs S suggest. And while Mr and Mrs S say the payment should be of 
an amount that will deter Barclays from allowing this to happen again, that isnt our role. 
What I must consider is the effect the error had on Mr and Mrs S.
Barclays sent its notes for this period. It did receive the first cheque and started the process 
of redeeming the mortgage and releasing the charge. Of course, Mr and Mrs S had also paid 
the second cheque over the counter at their branch and theyd have assumed it was this 
payment that was being processed. Mrs S contacted Barclays in mid-November 2020 about 
the time this was taking. In late November 2020, Barclays stopped the redemption process: 
Barclays reversed the payment as the cheque had been cancelled and wrote to Mr and 
Mrs S to tell them this. 
This must have been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs S. It was more than a month since 
theyd tried to repay the mortgage. And theyd have started to worry about what had 
happened to the money as the second cheque, paid over the counter at the branch, had 
been cashed. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have said about how worried they were. Mrs S has said 
the nature of her work meant it was difficult to keep chasing Barclays. Mr and Mrs S received 
arrears letters from Barclays and say they were worried that Barclays would take action, 
such as appointing bailiffs. I can see from Barclays notes that it told Mrs S this wouldnt 
happen as she had the receipt for paying off the mortgage. Barclays also then put a stop on 
arrears letters. 
Mr and Mrs S checked with Barclays that their first cheque had arrived safely and cancelled 
it when they were told it hadnt. They decided not to do a BACS payment because of a 
mismatch between the account payee details they had and the details the bank with their 
current account had. They visited a Barclays branch to pay the cheque in over the counter 
and received a receipt with their mortgage account details. I think Mr and Mrs S went to 
some trouble to make sure their money arrived in their account safely. So I think this was 
something they were concerned about.
The cheque Mr and Mrs S paid over the counter was for a significant amount of money. This 
debited their account but wasnt applied to their mortgage account. Mr and Mrs S were 
unable to find out what had happened to the money, despite chasing Barclays. However, 
they had the receipt from the branch and when they spoke to Barclays it told them that it was 
trying to sort the matter out  although theres no doubt it took far too long to do so. Mr and 
Mrs S tried to repay the mortgage in October 2020 and it was about four months later when 
this was completed. I think, in the circumstances, that compensation of £500 is fair and 
reasonable for the frustration, worry and inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £500 to Mr 
and Mrs S (if its already paid £250 it can deduct this from the £500).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman