DRN-1432054
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited 
trading as AA Insurance, has provided when he wanted to cancel his breakdown policy. 
What happened
Mr B has said he applied for breakdown cover with AA on 3 July 2019  via its website. At the 
same time, his partner renewed her policy with another provider and managed to get a better 
price. As his policy with AA had a 14-day cooling-off period Mr B wanted to cancel the policy 
and obtain a full refund. But when he called AA to arrange this he was told he would need to 
pay a £20 administration fee. 
Mr B explained he was unhappy with having to pay an administration fee as he was still in 
the cooling-off period. So he felt he shouldn'tt have to pay it.  Mr B has said he was never 
made aware of this when he took the policy out. So he raised a formal complaint with AA.
AA looked into Mr Bs complaint and it said that during the online sales process it outlined 
that if a customer cancels the policy within the 14-day cooling- off period a £20 
administration fee will be applied. AA went on to say that it was also outlined in the terms 
and conditions that Mr B would have received. So it didn'tt think it had acted unfairly as it 
had acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr B didn't agree. He says he was never made aware of the administration fee and as a 
result he would like the fee refunded along with £30 for the trouble and upset 
he experienced. So he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didn't recommend that it be upheld. To 
summarise he said he felt AA had provided enough information at the outset (during the 
sales process) and in the policy terms to make Mr B aware there was a £20 administration 
fee. Therefore, he didn'tt think AA had acted unfairly.  Mr B didn't agree. He said that he 
wasnt aware there was a cancellation fee during the online sales process. And he 
didn't receive the terms and conditions until after he had cancelled the policy. But upon 
reviewing the terms he says it doesn't say AA will charge but may charge an 
administration fee. As Mr B remained unhappy the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy started on 3 July 2019, and he cancelled the policy on 16 July 2019. Mr B has 
said he didn't receive the policy documents until 18 July 2019. And because of this he was 
unable to see the term which says, AA could apply an administration fee if the policy was 
cancelled in the cooling-off period. Therefore, I have gone on to consider what Mr B would 
have seen during the online sales process before agreeing to the policy terms. 
AA has sent screen shots outlining what Mr B would have seen when purchasing his policy. 
Under the important information section of the policy it states:Theres a cooling- off period of 14 days from the date you receive your cover documentation 
or your cover starts, if later. If you cancel your cover during this time, you will get a refund 
minus a £20 cancellation fee. After the cooling-off period youll be able to cancel but there is 
no refund.
Mr B has said, he wasnt made aware of this and this wasnt included during the online sales 
process. While I dont dispute Mr Bs version of events, I have seen the screenshots from the 
web journey, and this is not an unusual process for online sales. So on balance I think it is 
likely that during the sales process this information was provided to Mr B. As Mr B applied 
for the policy online (with no agent involvement form AA) I cant say AA didnt make Mr B 
aware of this information. It was available through the web journey and it is for each 
customer to ensure they are happy with the terms of the policy before proceeding. 
I've also considered the point Mr B has raised regarding the fact the policy document only 
said an administration fee may be applied. However, the terms says AA may charge a 
cancellation fee for administration and AA have relied on that term and concluded it wanted 
to charge an administration fee in this case. And I dont think that is unreasonable. I say this 
because Mr B would have been covered during this period. So, if he had a breakdown, he 
would have been able to utilise the policy. Therefore, AA would have had administration 
costs in setting the policy up and cancelling the policy. So with that in mind I wont be asking 
AA to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that i don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman