DRN-4037304
The complaint
Ms N complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) failed to deal
adequately with her claim for water damage to her property under her home insurance, and
has failed to provide her with a reasonable settlement. The claim was mostly dealt with by
loss adjusters though unless I say otherwise, I shall refer to RSA throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms N first made her claim to RSA in October 2017. She claimed for the water damage to her
downstairs rooms and to her first floor toilet and second floor bathroom. There were delays
initially in getting the property ready for repairs and as a result RSA agreed to pay £250
compensation. She was paid a settlement for the damaged contents, which included
payment for a new washer dryer. She subsequently made a claim for laundry costs which
RSA declined to pay as she had had the funds for a replacement machine.
RSA issued a final response letter on 26 January 2018 offering the said compensation. It
would appear that there were then some difficulties in contacting Ms N to arrange for the
repairs to start and the claim file was closed in May 2018. Ms N subsequently made a
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. That complaint was dealt with by one of our
Investigators in September 2018. In her view she said that the compensation offered by RSA
was reasonable to account for its delays - she suggested that Ms N get in touch with RSA to
arrange for the repairs to be carried out. She further said that as Ms N had received a
payment for damaged contents including for a washer/dryer it wasnt reasonable for RSA to
pay her laundry costs.
I understand that RSA then reopened the claim. It arranged for different contractors to go out
and price up the repair works. Those contractors attempted to contact Ms N during January
and February 2019 with no success. Finally a start date was arranged for 5 March, which
unfortunately the contractors couldnt keep because of illness. The further date of 7 March
had to be postponed, and the contractors left a message saying they would return on 
11 March. It would appear that Ms N didnt get that message as only her son was in on 
11 March. A visit on 12 March also proved to be abortive. Ms N contacted our Investigator
again, who passed this on to RSA. The contractors then tried to rearrange the start date but
Ms N was uncontactable. The claim file was closed again.
In May 2019 Ms N instructed solicitors (H) who wrote to RSA in August 2019 setting out that 
the claim hadnt been progressed. RSA reappointed the loss adjusters who carried out a site 
visit in November 2019 to check what works had been completed against the scope of 
works. A cash settlement was calculated, however Ms N said she wanted RSAs contractors 
to do the work. RSA suggested appointing the previous contractors but Ms N didnt want 
them back. RSA said it had no other contractors available so could only offer the cash 
settlement based on its contractors costs.
RSA tried to contact H from January to March 2020. They replied in April with details of
expenses, which RSA was able to agree except for laundry costs. H also enclosed two
quotes for the works for around £22,700 and for around £26,400, both excusive of VAT,
which RSA said were unacceptable. I understand it was agreed that H would obtain a 
surveyors quote. RSA also forwarded a schedule of works to them in June 2020, but 
couldnt get a response, so closed the claim again in January 2021. It didnt hear from them 
again until March 2021. H had appointed a surveyor who had carried out costing of the 
outstanding works in December 2020, which amounted to £15,000 including a
£2,000 contingency reserve. RSA advised it would only pay what it assessed the work would
cost according to its contractors rates, this was just over £4,500 excluding VAT. It also
proposed a revisit as there were items in Ms Ns surveyors report which hadnt been in its
original scope. H advised that Ms N wouldnt agree to a revisit (although she has since
agreed to one).
On 30 October 2021 RSA issued a further final response. I now understand N to say that
she never received that response. I have noted that is clearly properly addressed to H at the
address RSA had been corresponding with, and I would suggest that she take up with H
whether it received that letter. Nevertheless if Ms N wants to make further comments on that
letter, she can do so in response to this provisional decision.
RSA maintained its position concerning the cost of repairs. It also agreed to pay a settlement
for other costs, like showering, use of convector heaters and photocopying and postage.
Having previously offered to pay the laundry costs it said this was a mistake and it couldnt
pay those, in line with our previous Investigators view. It recognised its approach had been
inconsistent with regard to contacting Ms N and closing the claim down after periods of no
contact. It agreed to pay £500 compensation for this.
RSA paid the £500 compensation (and the £250 offered in 2018) in November 2021. It also
paid the £4,500 odd for the repairs. That appears to be the last action by RSA in this case. It
did propose to send a further final response in June 2022, but I dont think that ever
materialised.
Ms N advised us that she had been told by H to get a final response from the Financial
Ombudsman, so they could issue Court proceedings. As far as Im aware no such
proceedings have been issued as yet. Another of our Investigators reviewed the matter in
August 2022. He said that although there were long periods when nothing happened this
wasnt RSAs fault. He also said RSAs position concerning the settlement was reasonable.
Ms N disagreed  she pointed out that for three consecutive days the contractors failed to
turn up, without warning, leaving her with no choice but to book contractors herself. She
says the work cant possibly be done for the amount RSA has paid. This isnt even enough
to compensate her for having to live in an unhygienic home for five years.
The complaint came to me for review. I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that RSA 
should pay some further expenses, and should pay some interest on the settlement, and an 
additional £100 for the missed contractors appointments. However I thought that the cash 
settlement proposed was fair, and that, save for the £100, the compensation paid was 
reasonable.
Ms N responded to my provisional findings, and reiterated a number of points I had 
previously considered. So I wont go into every point she makes, but the main points I will 
address in this final decision are:
She doesnt know why we are only considering all the costs up to November 2021  
surely all the costs right up to the present date should be included?
Although she instructed H (solicitors) in late May 2019 and passed to her solicitor all the
information in May/June 2019, she doesnt know why there was a delay at the solicitors 
office so that their first letter to RSA went out on 13 August 2019.It had been her preference for the Insurer to carry out the repair works as they are 
complex and far more expensive for her to complete  e.g. she doesnt have access to 
the builders rates which the insurers negotiate.
There was a delay between June and October 2021 when H was trying to get an answer 
out of RSA concerning the settlement.
RSA delayed the matter by failing to issue its promised final response letter in May 2022.
There was a delay by the Financial Ombudsman Service in getting the matter allocated 
and reviewed.
RSA did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out below my provisional findings, in italics. Where any previous wording was in italics, I 
have also underlined it.
scope of this decision
My view is that Im able to look at all matters after 26 January 2018. Our Investigator only
considered matters after the September 2018 view letters but those letters only deal with
issues up until the final response letter of 26 January 2018. The views didnt proceed to an
Ombudsmans decision, so they remain our final answer in respect of the matters set out in
them. So I cant look at any initial delays up until after January 2018. Also, our Investigators
view was that as Ms N had received a cash payment for her contents which included a new
washer dryer she didnt need to incur laundry costs, so I cant revisit that issue from before
January 2018.
Ive also reviewed matters up until August 2022. Despite saying it would, RSA didnt issue a
final response after October 2021.
delays/failure to respond
Ms N says she had to continually chase up RSA. Shes been living in an unrepaired house
for over five years, without heating, an unusable utility room and the smell of sewage.
On the other hand RSA says Ms N was uncontactable for long periods and the claim was
closed down several times. It did say however that its approach had been inconsistent with
regard to contacting Ms N and closing the claim down after periods of no contact, so paid
her £500 compensation in that respect.
The periods of delay from January 2018 until RSA settled the claim in cash are:
January 2018 to September 2018  RSA says its contractors tried to get in touch with Ms N
in February and March 2018. Its loss adjusters sent a 7 day letter and the claim was closed
in May 2018. Ive not seen any specific information on RSAs or the loss adjusters files
concerning this time period, but its clear that Ms N was pursuing her former complaint with
the Financial Ombudsman during this period. As that complaint didnt concern this period,
Im unable to conclude that RSA was at fault.September 2018 to August 2019  Ms N had made it clear that she wanted RSA to send out
its contractors. It duly appointed new contractors who went out to price up the work, which it
finalised in December 2018. RSA says its contractors tried to get in touch with Ms N, and
couldnt do so until eventually arranging a start date of 5 March 2019. Ms N says she waited
in on three consecutive days and the contractors failed to attend, only giving her an
explanation late in the day. RSA says the contractors advised Ms N they couldnt attend on 5
then 7 March because of illness, giving her notice at the time. They say they left a message
saying they would return on 11 March which they duly did but only Ms Ns son was there on
that date and couldnt let them in. Similarly on 12 March only a friend was there but Ms N
says she received no notice of either day
At this time, it is clear that Ms N was in contact with one of our Investigators who passed on
information to RSA. RSA says its contractors tried to contact Ms N after 20 March and in
early April, but she didnt respond, and it closed the claim again. Ms N advised our
Investigator that she was instructing solicitors.
Having considered what happened, I think there was a familiar pattern of contractors
attempting to contact Ms N and her not responding. She was aware however that the
contractors were attempting to get in touch with her and she could have contacted the loss
adjusters or RSA directly. It was unfortunate that the contractors were unable to attend on
appointed days and I recognise the inconvenience caused to Ms N. But as Ive not seen any
details from RSA of the times the contractors attempted to contact Ms N, Im inclined to
accept that for two days she waited in all day and didnt hear from the contractors until late in
the day. I think RSA should pay a further £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Generally though, I dont think that RSA was responsible for delays during this period,
although I do think that by that stage it should have considered making a cash settlement
rather than just closing the file (which from past experience was likely to reopen).
January 2020 to March 2021  In August 2019 H wrote to RSA alleging that it had failed to
progress the claim. RSA reappointed its loss adjusters who attended in November 2019 to
calculate the cash settlement. RSA advised Ms N that it had no other contractors available.
RSA tried to contact H in January and February 2020, but got no response until April 2020
when it was able to agree some outstanding expenses. It said it could not agree the quotes
for completing the work. It sent a schedule of the outstanding work it thought necessary to
reinstate the property to H in June 2020 but did not hear back. I believe that it was agreed
that H would obtain a surveyors report to provide proper costing. While this took a long time
I cant say that RSA was wrong to ask for such a report especially as did show the quotes
obtained were excessive. H didnt contact RSA until March 2021. As Ms N was instructing
solicitors during this time, Im not inclined to say that there was anything RSA could have
done in the meantime.
March to November 2021  RSA advised, having received Ms Ns surveyors report that it
couldnt pay the £15,000 proposed in that report and that it was prepared to offer the cash
settlement that it had previously calculated. It paid that cash settlement in November 2021.
However, I dont think it was responsible for delays during this period.
I have to consider whether it was reasonable for RSA only to pay Ms N what it would have
cost it to instruct its own contractors. First of all the policy allows for this, stating:
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay
our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we
would have paid our preferred supplier.
Ms N feels that only having two contractors in her area was unreasonable for such a largefirm as RSA, bearing in mind the area she lives in. However I cant say who RSA should
make available in a particular area. It does appear that both contractors were willing to carry
out the work, but after the second contractors missed appointments, Ms N was unwilling to
have the first one back. I do think that RSA made reasonable attempts to carry out the work.
And while Ms N says that RSA and/or its loss adjusters or contractors failed to contact her, it
does appear that she was uncontactable for long periods.
So I think RSA has acted fairly in offering, then paying, Ms N the cash settlement based on
its cost to repair  which is all it would have paid had it been able to progress the work. But it
was aware from at least April 2019 that the cash settlement was the only reasonable option
left. And I think it was aware from its contractors what that sum should have been. I dont
think the site visit in November 2019 changed that very much.
So, rather than close the file for a second time when it was likely to reopen bearing in mind
its first contractors experience, it should have offered to pay the cash settlement at the
same time as saying it was closing its file. Then if it got no response, it should have
transferred the money, without prejudice if necessary, to Ms N by 1 May 2019. I think this is
a reasonable date by which this should have happened  so even if RSA actually closed its 
file after this date, it should still, I think, have acted by 1 May 2019 to pay Ms N the case
settlement. The funds would at least have then been available to Ms N to get some repairs
under way. As it did not pay them until November 2021, I think it should pay simple interest
on the cash settlement from 1 May 2019 to 8 November 2021 at 8% per year. This would
cover any increase in building costs over that period.
I understand that Ms N has now indicated to our Investigator that she is prepared to have
RSA revisit. This is because there are items on her surveyors scope that werent on RSAs
original scope. After any such revisit, RSA should consider payment for any such additional
items.
VAT
RSAs payment is said to be exclusive of VAT. As this doesnt become payable until any
contractor submits their invoice, I think thats reasonable. RSA should pay the VAT on
receipt of an invoice showing the VAT payable (up to the amount payable on its cash
settlement).
compensation
RSA has paid £500 compensation for its approach to the times it closed down the claim.
Save for the additional £100 Ive mentioned above, I think thats reasonable. I dont think
RSA is responsible for the fact that the repairs have not yet been done or for Ms N having to
live under the conditions she describes. But Im aware that Ms N is noted as a vulnerable
person. Our previous Investigator thought that she shouldnt be paid her laundry costs up
until 26 January 2018, because she had had funding for a new machine. But Im inclined to
think that after that date she should receive payment towards her laundry costs.
I believe from the notes of the claim that the utility room was not usable, and any new
washing machine would need to be plumbed in. I note that RSA said that she could have
contacted it to ask for some temporary repairs to be carried out to enable this. But I dont 
think it was fair to expect her to do that. It was aware of her circumstances and it could have 
offered to do this. I think it should pay Ms Ns laundry costs from 26 January 2018 to 
8 November 2021 with interest at 8% from the dates she paid those costs until 
reimbursement. Ms N should be prepared to produce receipts in respect of the costs 
incurred.Similar considerations apply to the costs of showering and the electricity costs of running
electric heaters. Im aware Ms N received some payment for these following Hs letter of
April 2020. But if she incurred any further such expenses after that and up until November
2021, RSA should pay the expenses during that period with interest at 8% from the dates
she paid them until reimbursement. Ms N should be prepared to produce receipts or bills.
failing to issue a final response letter
I think this is part of the complaint about the claim rather than a separate issue. RSA did
advise Ms N several times in 2022 that it would be issuing a further final response letter. As
far as I know it hasnt done that. I know this must have been irritating for Ms N. But I dont
think it held up our investigation as I believe RSAs position remained the same. So I wont
award any further compensation in respect of this.
In respect of Ms Ns points in response, as listed above:
I understand Ms N believes RSA should be paying all her costs up to the present day. But 
the reason I used the 8 November 2021 date up to which RSA should pay costs and interest 
is because that is the date Ms N received her settlement. She could have used that 
settlement to get the main repairs under way. I bear in mind that at the time of receiving the 
settlement she was being advised by solicitors.
Im sorry to see that H delayed in acting on Ms Ns instructions  that a matter she should 
take up with them
I know Ms N preferred for RSA to carry out the work. I should explain that most household 
insurance policies allow for repairs to be carried out by or on behalf of the Insurer. If that 
cant be done the Insurer will offer a cash settlement based on what it would have paid its 
contractors. In this case, RSA attempted to get the repairs done using two contractors firms. 
In light of what I said in my provisional findings, I think the arrangements broke down through 
no fault of RSA or its contractors. It wasnt able to offer a third contractor, and although I 
understand Ms N doesnt believe this, I have no evidence to show otherwise. I cant 
reasonably tell RSA to use a contractor unknown to it, as it would be responsible for all the 
repairs. Equally I dont think it would be reasonable to expect it to pay private contractors 
rates when it had attempted to use its own contractors.
So regrettably the only choice in this case was for RSA to pay the cash settlement as it did. I 
understand that this is not sufficient for all the costs private contractors might charge, but this 
in line with the terms of the policy.
Ms N has sent an email exchange between H and RSA for the period June to October 2021. 
Its clear that because of backlogs caused by the Covid 19 pandemic, RSA had difficulty in 
appointing an assessor to review the surveyors report. I dont propose to take any more 
action concerning this period, as I have addressed the delay in offering a settlement in my 
provisional findings.
I addressed RSAs delay and its failure to issue a further final response letter in my 
provisional findings. I dont think this caused any additional delay in getting the complaint 
considered.
Lastly I am sorry that there was delay by the Financial Ombudsman Service, I believe our 
Investigator went through that with Ms N at the time.
I have reviewed all the other information sent in by Ms N, including photos, up until todays 
date. I confirm that they dont give me a reason to alter my provisional findings.So I remain persuaded by my provisional findings, which are now final and form part of this 
final decision.
Putting things right
RSA should:
pay 8% simple interest* per year on the settlement of £4,548.82 from 1 May 2019 until 8
November 2021.
pay any VAT, up to the amount due on its cash settlement, within 14 days of receiving an
invoice showing the amount of VAT payable. If unpaid after the 14 days, then add 8%
simple interest* per year until reimbursement.
pay Ms Ns laundry costs incurred from 26 January 2018 until 8 November 2021 together
with 8% simple interest* per year from the dates Ms N paid any such costs until
reimbursement.
pay any extra electricity costs for electric heating and any costs not already paid for
showering over the same period together with 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date(s) Ms N paid any such costs until reimbursement.
after any further site visit, consider payment for any additions to the scope of works.
pay an additional £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require RSA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Ms N a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited  to provide 
the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman