DRN-3460885
The complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) provided her with credit she couldnt afford 
to repay.
What happened
MBNA approved a credit card application for Miss M in January 2019. They provided a credit 
limit of £2,800.
Miss M says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for her.
MBNA disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they used a 
combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported information to 
assess the application. They say that Miss Ms credit file demonstrated that she was 
managing her credit commitments well; there were no County Court Judgments against her, 
no arrears on her accounts, no defaults and that she was working within the credit limits of 
her agreements. They said they estimated that she would have enough disposable income 
to be able to sustainably pay the credit they were offering. 
Our investigator thought the checks MBNA had carried out were proportionate but she didnt 
think they demonstrated that the agreement was sustainably affordable for Miss M, as she 
noted Miss M has substantial credit available to her which if shed used would make the 
repayments on this new credit facility unsustainable.
MBNA didnt agree. They said they were required to consider Miss Ms level of debt but not 
her potential debt and that there was nothing in the application to suggest the credit wasnt 
affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think MBNA completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Miss Ms credit file and gathered some information from her about her income and 
circumstances. 
The information Miss M provided suggested she was in stable employment and earning 
£28,000 per year. The credit file demonstrated that Miss M didnt have any defaulted 
accounts or County Court Judgments on her file. But Miss M did have access to significant 
credit. She already had several other credit cards and mail order accounts and the credit 
limit available to her at the time of application was in the region of £28,800. 
The overarching requirement on the lender is to ensure that any new credit it is looking to 
provide isnt going to cause financial hardship for the consumer. If the consumer has access 
to revolving credit but hasnt used it so far, they potentially have that credit available to them. 
So, it is reasonable for the business to consider what the consumer can afford should they 
max out those credit facilities as that could literally happen in one day. 
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated 
activities. CONC 5.2A.27 says a lender has to calculate affordability based on the maximum 
limit. It says that they have to make assumptions on the full amount of borrowing available. 
MBNA should therefore have considered the full amount of borrowing available to Miss M.
The borrowing available to Miss M once this application was completed would have been in 
excess of £31,000 and the investigator has calculated that even on a minimum payment this 
would mean Miss M was paying over 40% of her net income on revolving credit debt, before 
her other credit commitments and expenditure.
I think this should have led MBNA to conclude that the credit wasnt sustainably affordable 
for Miss M and that they were therefore wrong to approve the credit card application.
Putting things right
As I dont think MBNA ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss M should pay 
back the amount she has borrowed. Therefore, MBNA should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (which have 
not already been refunded) that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss M along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. MBNA should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Miss Ms credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, MBNA should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss M for the remaining amount. Once Miss M has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
If MBNA has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt from 
the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly. 
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MBNA Limited to put things right in the manner set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman