DRN-3666470
The complaint
Mrs M complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her three credit  
accounts that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs M entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with three separate 
credit card accounts. The first, a Marbles account, was opened for her in February 2017 with 
a credit limit of £600. The credit limit was then increased several times, reaching £5,000 in 
May 2019. The second account, with Debenhams, was opened for her in May 2019 with a 
credit limit of £1,000. The third account, with Amazon, was opened for her in October 2019 
with a credit limit of £1,000.   
Mrs M contacted NewDay in March 2020 and agreed payment plans for the Amazon and 
Debenhams accounts and in April 2020 agreed a payment plan for the Marbles account. 
Mrs M says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened each 
of these accounts. She says if it had, it would have seen that they werent affordable for her 
as she didnt have enough income to make the repayments and was experiencing financial 
difficulties. 
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mrs Ms financial circumstances before granting her each of the accounts. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the Marbles account be partially upheld and that Amazon 
account be upheld from opening. NewDay agreed that the Amazon account should not have 
been granted. But it didnt agree that the Marbles account should be partially upheld. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting each of these accounts, NewDay needed to look into Mrs Ms financial 
situation. 
Marbles Account
Before opening the Marbles account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mrs M about her ability to repay. This included completing a 
credit check that gave an indication of her financial situation. This showed she had an 
annual income of around £26,000 and around £6,600 in unsecured borrowing. I note the 
checks showed that Mrs M had had two defaults in the past, the most recent of which was 
55 months earlier. Im satisfied that this default could be treated as historical and not 
something to prevent the new credit being granted. So from what Ive seen, I think these 
checks look to have been proportionate. 
I also think NewDay likely made a fair lending decision based on its checks, given Mrs Ms 
annual income and the financial history it had seen. Ive also kept in mind that the opening 
credit limit of £600 was relatively modest. 
Looking at the credit limit increases on the Marbles account, I agree with our adjudicator that 
it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more about any 
changes to Mrs Ms income, as well as the level of committed expenditure she had at that 
time. I say this especially having seen that the data available to NewDay at the time showed 
she owed around £6,600 in unsecured debt at the time she opened the account. Ive noticed 
that she went on to rapidly use up the available opening credit limit and then the additional 
credit granted to her in the first two increases. 
I dont disagree, as NewDay has pointed out, that Mrs Ms overall unsecured debt remained 
at around the level of £10,500 from August 2017 up to the third credit limit increase in 
August 2018. But Ive also noticed that during this period the frequency and size of her cash 
withdrawals continued to increase. At the point of the January 2018 limit increase, she had 
made three consecutive increases, although I accept this doesnt necessarily show a 
concerning trend. But she then went on to take a further four cash advances prior to the 
further credit limit increase in May 2018. I think this suggests an increasing reliance on cash 
advances to manage her debt and daily outgoings. And whilst I agree that on the face of 
things Mrs M was managing to meet her monthly payments and pay over the minimum for 
the account, I dont think that alone is enough to demonstrate her financial position was not 
worsening. It follows that I think had NewDay completed better proportionate checks, it likely 
would have seen these issues. 
I therefore I agree NewDay acted unfairly in granting Mrs M the credit limit increase to 
£3,250 form May 2018. 
Debenhams Account
At the time of granting the Debenhams account, Mrs M had an annual declared income of 
around £29,000. Ive seen that by now she had around £11,900 in other lending. The checks 
NewDay carried out didnt show evidence of her getting into financial difficulty elsewhere, 
such as having defaults on other lending or having to take out pay day loans. But given that 
this account would have brought the total amount of credit Mrs M had with NewDay to 
£6,000, I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in 
order to understand Mrs Ms financial situation. This would include finding out more about 
Mrs Ms daily spending commitments, including her regular living costs. 
But I also think that had NewDay carried out further checks, it would likely have found that 
she had enough disposable income available to meet her existing financial commitments 
whilst maintaining her new account. I say this having looked at bank statements Mrs M has 
provided from around this time, showing she was managing to meet her monthly minimum 
payment requirements. I agree with our adjudicator that at this time she would be committing 
around a third of her income to her existing debt commitments, including her Marbles account and other unsecured borrowing. If NewDay had completed proportionate checks by 
looking at these, I think its likely it would have found this to be the case and that the opening 
credit limit of £1,000 was likely to have been affordable. So I agree that NewDay didnt act 
unfairly in giving Mrs M this credit. 
Amazon Account 
At the time of granting the Amazon account, Mrs M had an annual declared income of 
around £29,000 with unsecured debt of £17,000. Taken together, the three NewDay 
accounts would now give Mrs M a total available of credit limit of £8,000. So I think by this 
point it would have been proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order to 
understand Mrs Ms financial situation. 
The information Mrs M has provided about her financial situation at this time shows she was 
now committing almost half her income to NewDay plus her other debt commitments. I am 
therefore in agreement with our adjudicator that this is unsustainable and having the use of 
this credit wouldnt have left Mrs M with enough to meet her essential living costs, committed 
expenditure and other unsecured debt repayments. I therefore agree that NewDay ought to 
have been aware that Mrs M was not in a position to take on and manage this additional 
credit. 
I note that Amazon has already agreed that this account should not have been granted. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
Rework Mrs Ms Marbles account to ensure that all interest and charges 
should be removed from the Marbles account for balances over £2,500, being the 
previous credit limit increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed; and
Rework the Amazon account removing all interest and charges that have been 
applied. 
If an outstanding balance remains on the Marbles and/or Amazon account 
once these adjustments have been made, NewDay should contact Mrs M to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan for the account. Once Mrs M has repaid the 
outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs 
Ms credit file from 14 May 2018 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms 
credit file from 14 May 2018.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation in 
respect of the Marbles and Amazon accounts as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman