DRN-3591326
The complaint
Mr C complains a payment he made using his mobile banking app with National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), didnt arrive at the bank account he had instructed. 
What happened
Mr C says in June 2019 and July 2019 he made three payments of £250 each using a new 
Paym feature on his mobile banking app with NatWest, for his rent. Mr C says for some 
reason these showed on his statement as being paid to his late partner who had passed 
away some three years earlier. Mr C says he had made similar payments before without 
problems, but these payments where never received by the intended recipient. 
Mr C says when he asked NatWest to investigate the matter, it advised him the payment had 
been sent to another bank, to a payee and location he knew nothing of. Mr C says NatWest 
were unable to retrieve the payments and he feels that this is a technical problem with the 
app and NatWest should refund the £750, sent to the incorrect payee. 
NatWest says the Paym system is different to the standard mobile banking app and 
payments used this way are connected to a registered mobile phone number of the recipient, 
which would have been input by Mr C. NatWest says given this, the payment was made 
using Mr Cs instructions, it was unable to refund the £750. 
Mr C wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt the payment was initiated by Mr C and couldnt see any evidence to show 
NatWest had made any errors. The investigator says NatWest had attempted to retrieve the 
payments Mr C had made from the recipient bank and realistically thats all he could ask of 
them. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr C to have sent payments via his mobile 
banking app, only to discover they were sent to a recipient he had no knowledge of. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest were at fault for the three payments 
Mr C sent via the Paym system on his mobile banking app, being sent to the wrong recipient.
Mr C says he had previously made payments using this method for his rent, but when the 
recipient hadnt received the monies he tried on another two occasions and for some reason 
the payments appeared on his bank statements payable to his late partner, not her son as 
intended. Mr C says after NatWest had investigated the matter, following him contacting 
them, it established the payment was sent to a recipient unknown to him or listed in his 
contacts in Paym, and to a bank in another region of the country. Mr C says NatWest have 
been unable to retrieve these monies on his behalf. 
I understand the points Mr C makes here but from the information I have seen Im not fully 
persuaded by his argument. I say this as after referring to NatWest and having looked at Mr 
Cs bank statements, I have established previous payments made to his late partners son, 
show a payment reference of PYC  which means this was paid by using the beneficiaries 
bank account details already saved on his online banking facility. However the three 
payments made in June 2019 and July 2019 which Mr C refers to, show a difference 
payment reference of PAYM and this reference means Mr C selected a payment method 
using the recipients telephone number, not stored bank account details like the previous 
payments he made. 
For clarity Paym is a system designed to send money through a banking app to someone 
else, using only their telephone number  not using stored bank account details. It requires 
both the sender and the beneficiary to register for Paym for this to operate successfully. So, 
to initiate the three payments in June 2019 and July 2019 Mr C would have needed to select 
the person he wished to pay from his telephone contacts, enter a reference and the amount. 
From the information I have seen, this wasnt the method Mr C used to make the previous 
payments as I have explained before, these seem to have been sent using stored bank 
account details of the recipient, not purely based on a recipients telephone number. 
What is important here is NatWest were not directly involved in making these payments that 
must be done by Mr C, but any payments here would be  connected to the registered 
telephone number in Mr Cs mobile phone contact list. 
While Mr C may not agree and some time has of course passed now, I am satisfied from the 
information I have seen, the recipient telephone number, being Mr Cs late partner was in all 
likelihood selected by Mr C when he made the three payments in June 2019 and July 2019. 
Its not clear why that recipient telephone number, had the bank account details it did, but I 
am satisfied that was not NatWests doing - those bank details must be input by the 
beneficiary into the Paym system via their own bank. 
I can see NatWest attempted to retrieve the monies Mr C sent but without success as it 
seems the recipient bank contacted its customer, who failed to acknowledge this. 
Unfortunately, and while I can understand Mr Cs frustration, I cant say theres much more I 
could reasonably expect NatWest to do. I understand Mr C has been provided with the 
account and address details of the recipient and if he hasnt already exhausted those 
avenues, then that is an option still open to him and thats for Mr C to take forward.  
While I do have some sympathy with Mr C here, I cant see any evidence to suggest 
NatWests Paym system is faulty or it had any direct involvement in inputting the contact 
phone number or payee details, so I cant say it was at fault here. 
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman