DRN-4170004
The complaint
Mrs A complains on behalf of her late husband, Mr A. She feels that Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Advice Services Limited (LV) mis-sold him a single-life annuity.
Mrs A is represented in this complaint. But Ill only refer to her and Mr A in my decision. 
What happened
Mr A had a personal pension with another provider Ill refer to as provider A. I understand 
that he was looking forward to his retirement. But that he was diagnosed in 
August/September 2020 with an incurable illness. And that aggressive treatment started 
immediately, with Mr A being hospitalised for seven weeks initially due to the problems his 
illness had caused. 
Provider A wrote to Mr A in February 2021 about his upcoming retirement date. It sent him a 
retirement pack which recommended that as he was about to make an important financial 
decision, he should access free support through a service like PensionWise, or take 
independent financial advice. It also referred to a step-by-step guide that could be used to 
help Mr A to understand his options.
Provider A also referenced a booklet: Helping you to make the most of your pension pot 
that would tell Mr A more about its own retirement product, and how he could: use it to take 
advantage of pensions flexibility. 
On 19 March 2022, Mr A called LV, provider As partner, to discuss taking his pension. 
During the call, LV told Mr A he had had a number of options. He chose to take 25% of his 
pension pot as Tax-Free Cash (TFC) and then use the rest to buy a level single life annuity. 
He also explained that he was suffering from a serious medical condition. LV said it would 
send out medical forms for Mr A to complete.
LV called Mr A on 1 April 2021 to discuss his medical condition further. 
On 16 April 2021, LV called Mr A with the quotes hed asked for. The best quote was with a 
provider Ill refer to as Provider B. It was based on a pension fund value of £120,065.37. And 
said that Mr A could receive a TFC lump sum of £30,016.34 and an enhanced annual 
income of £7,401.96 on a single life basis with no spouse benefit or guarantees. 
LV said that it would be happy to run alternative quotes if Mr A wanted. But he said he was 
happy with the quote hed been given. 
LV called Mr A again on 26 April 2021 to tell him that it had received the completed 
application. But that it still needed a signed letter of authority and medical form. I understand 
that the process completed on 2 June 2021. At this point LV called Mr A to confirm hed 
received the policy documents from provider B. LV also called Mr A on 9 June 2021 to 
confirm that everything had gone through as required. Mr A confirmed that it had. I 
understand that 3.5% commission was paid to LV. 
Mr A sadly died in February 2022.
Mrs A complained on Mr As behalf to LV on 5 October 2022. She felt the annuity had been 
wholly unsuitable for Mr A due to his medical condition and likely limited life expectancy. And 
that LV was responsible for the losses Mr As estate had suffered as a result. 
Mrs A said that Mr As medical treatment had caused him to be impatient, short tempered 
and to be confused. She said this limited his ability to read and concentrate. 
Mrs A felt that LV was responsible for Mr As estates losses as it had: 
Arranged and accepted the business for and from Mr A, who was an unsophisticated 
retail client.
Facilitated the purchase of an annuity for Mr A when LV knew, or ought to have 
known, he hadnt received proper unbiased advice on the suitability of an annuity due 
to his likely terminal clinical prognosis.
Failed to carry out any due diligence about Mr As circumstances and medical 
prognosis.
Failed to advise Mr A that the purchase of an annuity with no dependant provision 
wasnt in his best financial interests in light of the medical diagnosis.
Failed to advise and to make any adequate investigation with Mrs A in light of Mr A's 
diagnosis.
Mrs A said that LV shouldve refused to accept such business as it was aware of Mr As 
medical diagnosis and prognosis. She also felt that LV had failed to advise Mr A adequately 
or at all. 
LV issued its final response to the complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
said that Mr A had contacted LV first, rather than the other way around, to arrange to take 
his TFC lump sum. It said hed needed income from his pension as well. It said it had 
recommended that Mr A should speak to PensionWise and to seek independent financial 
advice, but that he had declined to do so. And that its agent had told Mr A he was 
proceeding on a non-advised basis.
LV acknowledged that it was clear at the time that Mr A wasnt well and unlikely to get better, 
it said he was receiving treatment and there was no indication that his life expectancy would 
be less than a year. 
LV also said that Mrs A had been present for all the phone calls between it and Mr A. And 
that shed played an active part in those calls. So it didnt agree that shed been unaware of 
the decision Mr A was making. It felt Mrs A was helping Mr A to deal with the paperwork to 
get the lifetime annuity set up.
LV also said that the other available pension options were explained to Mr A. But that he 
wanted to proceed with the lifetime annuity. It said it was sorry to hear he had recently died. 
But felt that at the time hed approached LV for the annuity he had expected to live longer. 
LV also said that it might be the case that Mr A wasnt concerned about the consequences of 
his decision as he had other pension provision in place. 
Mrs A was unhappy with LVs response. She made the following points:Mr A hadnt understood pensions at all, even before his illness. Hed just wanted to 
sort his pension out quickly.
The medication and treatment Mr A had been on during the time he was making his 
retirement decisions left him feeling very poorly. And affected his personality, mood 
and concentration.
She hadnt been present during all the calls between Mr A and LV. She had only 
listened in occasionally and spoken a few times. 
Neither she nor Mr A had been clearly made aware that his pension with provider A 
was being changed to a lifetime annuity. And that after his death his pension pot 
would simply vanish. 
Mrs A felt that LV had led Mr A to believe that a lifetime annuity was his best option. 
And that it didnt make him aware of his other options. And that if LV had provided 
quotes for all types of pensions Mr A wouldve chosen one that wouldve continued 
after his death.
She questioned whether LV wouldve earned such a high commission if a more 
suitable option had been sold. 
Mrs A brought Mr As complaint to this service. She said Mr As estate had suffered a 
substantial financial loss, for which she wanted to be compensated.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that LV had 
completed the annuity application correctly. And that it had provided sufficient information for 
Mr A to make an informed decision.
Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator. She provided this service with further testimony 
about Mr As complaint. She made the following new points:
Mr A had signed up for the annuity not knowing or understanding its implications.
He was clearly very ill. So LV shouldve done more than just providing a description 
of the annuity product without any strenuous warning that other more eminently 
suitable products were available. His medication had affected his decision making. 
Although Mr A had said his pension was small, it wasnt. It was his most significant 
private pension. 
If Mrs A had had any idea that Mr As pension would die with him she wouldve 
stepped in. She was completely shocked when she found out there was no spouses 
pension, as she was absolutely certain that Mr A wouldnt have wanted her to get 
nothing. Mrs A said she hadnt seen any of the annuity paperwork. And felt that Mr A 
had probably not read any of it. 
Mrs A acknowledged that the LV agent her husband had spoken to hadnt given him 
advice. But felt that if hed fully understood Mr As health condition, where his lifespan 
was severely limited, he wouldnt have suggested a lifetime annuity. She felt LV had 
known her husband was dying.
She felt that LV should have some sort of responsibility where a customer may not 
have fully understood the options being presented. For example, by telling Mr A it 
would be a good idea for someone else to look at the options with him. Mrs A didnt think LV had provided enough warning that Mr A wasnt making a good decision. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be extremely disappointing to Mrs 
A. I understand why she feel so strongly about this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Id first like to offer my sincere condolences for the loss of Mr A. 
In order to be able to make my decision on this complaint, Ive listened carefully to all the 
calls between Mr A and LV. Ive also listened in full to the testimony Mrs A kindly provided to 
this service.
Ive also considered all the other documentary evidence both sides have provided. And the 
points theyve separately made to this service.
I first considered the discussions between Mr A and LV. 
Calls between Mr A and LV
Our investigator, in her view, and LV, in its final response, have both detailed what was said 
in a number of calls. So Ill only provide a summary here.
19 March 2021:
First Id like to note that Mr A called LV on 19 March 2021, after hed received a retirement 
pack from provider A, to ask about taking his TFC and the rest of his pension pot as a 
monthly payment for life. 
LVs agent told Mr A he was providing a non-advised service. So he would provide Mr A with 
information, but then Mr A would be responsible for whatever decision he made.
Ive listened to the call on 19 March 2021. In it the agent confirmed he was providing a non-
advised service. This meant hed take Mr A through all the information so that he could then 
make his own decisions, but that hed be responsible for his decisions. 
Mr A confirmed to the agent that hed not received any financial advice and had no intention 
of doing so. The agent said he didnt have to take advice, but that LV did recommend it for 
annuities, as they couldnt be changed once they were set up. And that it could be provided 
if needed. Mr A also confirmed that he hadnt spoken to PensionWise. The agent explained 
that PensionWise could provide guidance, and that LV recommended the use of this service.
I consider that this clearly shows that LV explained to Mr A that it wasnt providing advice. 
But that it recommended that Mr A looked for guidance or advice, given the importance of 
the choice he needed to make. This is also confirmed in Mr As annuity application form, 
which he signed in April 2021.  
Near the start of the call, the agent asked Mr A if he was looking for a joint or single life 
annuity or any other sort of pension. Mr A asked what the difference was between the two. 
The agent explained how a joint life pension worked, stating that if Mr As spouse or partner outlived him, theyd receive an income for the rest of their life.
Mr A said he just wanted his 25% TFC lump sum and the rest as a monthly payment for life. 
The agent confirmed that this meant: just for yourself  you dont want a spouses pension.
Later in the call, after provider A had spoken to Mr A, he asked the agent to explain again 
what a joint pension was. And if it would cost more. I believe that Mrs A can be heard in the 
background at this point. After the agent explained that taking a joint pension would reduce 
Mr As initial income, but then continue for the rest of his partners life, Mr A said: Thats ok 
we wont bother with that thank you.
Mrs A can also be heard helping Mr A answer some of the lifestyle and medical questions he 
was asked. The agent apologised to Mr A because the medical questions he had to ask 
about Mr As condition didnt fit it very well. 
LVs agent also asked Mr A how he wanted his annuity to be paid. Mr A said he wanted the 
pension to be paid in arrears, and to be level. 
The agent also asked Mr A if he wanted to add any death benefits to his policy. He 
explained: without them, then the pension would be lost on early death and would not be 
passed on to anybody else. He also explained that Mr A had two options for death benefits. 
He could either add a guarantee period, or add value protection. He gave details about both 
of these options, stating that both would potentially reduce the level of income Mr A would 
himself receive. Mr A said he didnt want to add a death benefit as the pension was so small. 
Near the end of the call, the agent gave Mr A a summary of his options. This included the 
option to leave his pension pot with provider A for now, and access it in the future. The agent 
also asked Mr A why he wanted the annuity. Mr A said it was because he wanted the 
guaranteed income.
At no point during the call did Mr A explain that his life expectancy was expected to be 
significantly reduced due to his medical condition. 
Based on what Ive heard, Im satisfied that the agent clearly explained to Mr A that a single 
life pension would end on his death. But that he had the option of buying a joint life pension, 
or adding death benefits, if he wanted the benefits from his pension to continue in some way 
after his death. Im also persuaded that Mrs A wouldve heard at least some of the 
information Mr A had been given here. 
Therefore Im satisfied that LV gave Mr A both the information, and the opportunity to 
consider, whether to include dependent benefits, during this call. But he decided not to due 
to the impact those additional benefits would have on his own pension.
1 April 2021 call
LV called Mr A to further discuss his medical condition. The agent confirmed with Mr A that 
he still wanted a single life annuity. And explained that he would pass all the medical details 
across to possible annuity providers and ask them to provide manual quotations given the 
circumstances. 
Mrs A also provided the agent with information about Mr As medical condition and the 
treatment it would require. 
Having listened in full to this call, neither Mr nor Mrs A told the agent that his medical 
condition was likely to mean he wouldnt live very long.16 April 2021 call
LVs agent called Mr A to discuss the best enhanced annuity quote hed received. Both Mr 
and Mrs A were on the call.  
After telling Mr A the single life quote, the agent told him he was happy to run alternative 
quotes. But Mr A refused and confirmed he was happy to proceed on the single life basis. 
The agent confirmed Mr As choice, and again stated that it: wouldnt be paid out to anyone 
else at all as there were no death benefits. The agent also explained that the annuity 
couldnt be cashed in, but that Mr A would have 30-day cancellation rights. 
26 April 2021 call
LVs agent called Mr A about the progress of his annuity application. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that LV provided Mr A with enough information 
about his options to enable him to make an informed decision about his pension benefits. Im 
also satisfied that LV passed on the correct medical information for the enhanced annuity 
quotes. 
I say this because LV gave Mr A all of his options, and clearly explained them. It also told Mr 
A why advice was important. And was clear that the benefits from Mr As annuity would stop 
on his death. 
I acknowledge that Mrs A felt that LV should have some sort of responsibility as she didnt 
think Mr A fully understood the options being presented. And that she didnt think LV had 
provided enough warning that Mr A wasnt making a good decision, as she felt the agent 
mustve known he was dying. But I cant fairly agree. 
I say this because I dont consider it was clear from the phone calls Ive listened to that Mr A 
had any problem understanding the information hed been given. Or that there was any issue 
with his decision-making. And while I can see that LVs agent did have a great deal of 
information about Mr As medical condition, Ive not seen any evidence that he had any 
information about Mr As prognosis. For example, as I noted earlier, at no point did Mr A 
indicate that he didnt expect to live very long.
In any event, LVs agent couldnt have recommended that Mr A might want to consider a 
different option, as he didnt have the right to. He wasnt advising Mr A. And wouldnt have 
known what was and wasnt suitable for him. He was simply making him aware of all of his 
options and drawing his attention to the differences. 
I can see that Mrs A felt that Mr A signed up for the annuity not knowing or understanding its 
implications. But the evidence shows that he was given all of the information he shouldve 
been given. And that he made his own mind up about the benefits he wanted to take. 
I can see that Mr A was clearly very ill. So I understand why Mrs A didnt understand why Mr 
A made the choice he did. And felt that LV shouldve done more  for example by warning 
Mr A that other more suitable products were available. But Ive cant fairly say that LV didnt 
make Mr A aware of all of his options. And, as I noted above, LV had no right to question the 
decisions Mr A wanted to make, it simply needed to provide him with all of the information he 
needed to make an informed choice, as it did.  
I also acknowledge that the pension pot Mr A used to buy his annuity wasnt small, although 
he told LV it was. But I cant fairly say that if Mr A had told LV this was his most significant 
pension it wouldve made any difference to the information it gave him. Im so sorry that Mrs A had such a shock when she found out that Mr As pension stopped 
on his death. I appreciate that she feels she wouldve stepped in during the process if shed 
understood the choices Mr A was making. And that she wasnt able to be on all the calls 
between Mr A and LV, or read all the paperwork Mr A had been sent. But I cant fairly hold 
LV responsible for this.
I can also understand why Mrs A felt that Mr A wouldve wanted her to benefit from his 
pension after his death. But I cant fairly say that LV has done anything wrong. I say this 
because it did what it was supposed to do, as Ive outlined above.
In summary, I agree with our investigator that LV didnt provide Mr A with any advice about 
his pension. And that it did provide adequate information for him to make an informed 
decision about how to take his pension benefits. Im also satisfied that LV completed the 
enhanced annuity application correctly. As Ive found no evidence that it did anything wrong, 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman