DRN-3116127
The complaint
Ms V complains about the way Phoenix Life Limited (hereafter Phoenix) handled her 
income protection claim.
What happened
As both sides are aware of the background to this complaint Ill only provide a brief summary 
of what happened. 
Ms V held an income protection policy with Phoenix. The policy was designed to pay a 
regular benefit in the event of Ms V becoming incapacitated and unable to work due to ill 
health, and in 2020 she claimed on it.
At the time, Ms V explained she was unable to work because a lack of sleep was impacting 
her mental capacity, thinking ability and professional skills. She said it was exacerbating her 
osteo arthritis too.
Phoenix declined Ms Vs claim, and said the available medical evidence did not demonstrate 
an incapacity in line with the policy terms. So, Ms V complained about the way Phoenix had 
handled her claim, as well as the outcome it had reached and the continued premiums shed 
been paying towards the policy. 
Phoenix acknowledged it could have been clearer during some of its claim handling and paid 
£50 compensation to reflect any trouble and upset that might have been caused. But it didnt 
think it had delayed matters, and it maintained that the decline of Ms Vs claim was in line 
with the policy terms. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but didnt think the medical evidence 
demonstrated an incapacity in line with the policy terms. They didnt think Phoenix had 
caused avoidable delays either. And they explained Ms V would have been expected to 
continue paying her premiums. So, they didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Ms V disagreed with our investigators opinion at length. Briefly, she reiterated her concerns 
about the way Phoenix had dealt with matters and how her ill health had impacted her ability 
to work. She said shed asked Phoenix what additional medical evidence was needed to 
support her claim, she raised concerns about an independent medical examination that had 
taken place, and she said there were avoidable delays throughout her claim. Ms V asked 
that matters be reviewed, so as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations Phoenix has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably. 
The declined claim
As I noted above, Ms Vs policy was designed to pay a regular benefit in the event of her 
becoming incapacitated and unable to work due to ill health. The policys terms and 
conditions define incapacity as meaning:
a) the insured is totally unable by reason of illness or injury to follow his own occupation as 
defined in condition 19, or
b) the insured is totally unable by reason of illness or injury to follow his own occupation as 
defined in condition 19 and there is no other occupation to which he is suited by reason of 
his education, training or experience which he is able to follow, or
c) routinely and not exceptionally the insured meets three or more of the following criteria
So it wouldnt be enough for the evidence in this complaint to show that Ms V was unwell. It 
would need to show that she was totally unable to perform her occupation because of how 
unwell she was. 
Having looked at the available medical evidence Ms Vs GP medical records show that in 
November 2019 she approached her GP with snoring symptoms. Consequently, a referral to 
a sleep clinic was made in December 2019 and in February 2020 Ms V was seen in clinic.
A letter from that clinic dated 24 February 2020 says that Ms V was previously diagnosed 
with mild obstructive sleep apnoea and lists her reported symptoms. It explains Ms V would 
take part in a two-night oximetry study in order for the clinic to reaffirm her diagnosis, and to 
decide whether to arrange a new mandibular or a continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP) device.
In May 2020 the GP medical records reference a phone consultation that took place with 
Ms V. Part of that entry reads:
Patient struggling with her work, sleep poor, concentration not good, fibromyalgia has flared 
up again, lethargy. 
Unable to work currentlyworried about making mistakes. Is going to apply for insurance 
cover for through health in insurance
On 21 August 2020 a second letter from the sleep clinic says Ms V had been referred to the 
clinics dental team, for a new mandibular device, and was due to be reviewed again in six to 
eight months time. 
Stopping briefly, I think it fair to say that the available medical evidence so far does show 
that Ms V was suffering with mild obstructive sleep apnoea. I think it also shows that she 
was undergoing investigations to decide what treatment/equipment might be most suitable 
for her. And the symptoms Ms V says she was suffering from are documented throughout.  
However, I dont think the evidence so far sets out that Ms V was considered totally unable 
to work because of her ill health, and as I highlighted above, it is this that needs to be 
shown.
Moving forward I can see that Ms V underwent an independent medical examination (IME) 
on 28 August 2020. The findings of this were set out in a report dated 2 September 2020. I 
wont recite everything the IME summarised as both sides are fully aware of its content, but I 
will highlight what the executive summary says:It is the opinion of the assessor that (Ms V) would be able to return to work as a (xxx) or, in 
a similar self-employed role, in some capacity be it on part time hours or hours to enable her 
to manage any symptoms of fatigue which may include working from home or working in 
hours in line with her optimal functioning timeframes. It is probable, in the opinion of the 
assessor, that with appropriate treatment such as CPAP, (Ms Vs) sleep would be improved 
therefore improving her symptoms of fatigue thus positively impacting her wok ability.
So, similarly to the finding I made above, this does not suggest that Ms Vs ill health was 
rendering her totally unable to work either. 
I am aware that Ms V is unhappy with the IME but aside from her comments about it, I 
havent been provided with any evidence to substantiate Ms Vs claim that the IME was 
inappropriate and the examiner incompetent. 
There is another letter from the sleep clinic dated 22 October 2020, which provides a 
summary of the clinics involvement in Ms Vs care. In setting out the background to Ms Vs 
attendance it says:
(Ms V) attended the sleep clinic on 24 February 2020 having been referred by her GP for 
symptoms of snoring and apnoeas, although she also reported sleep disturbance, 
unrefreshing sleep, daytime hypersomnolence and insomnia.
The same letter also says:
The symptoms described above by (Ms V) are typical in patients with OSA. (Ms Vs) 
Epworth Sleepiness Score was 16/24, indicating a significant degree of daytime sleepiness. 
Other symptoms reported by (Ms V) include concentration difficulties and por memory. It is 
well recognised that uncontrolled OSA is associated with impaired quality of life, cognitive 
impairment and poor concentration.
I think this letter certainly reiterates that Ms V was suffering with the reported symptoms of 
obstructive sleep apnoea and it does explain that such symptoms are typical for this 
condition. But again, I dont think it indicates that Ms V was considered totally unable to work 
because of this. 
Further, I think the commentary the letter provides around the impact obstructive sleep 
apnoea can have on sufferers is general in its nature and not specific to Ms V and her 
particular ability to work. So despite the strength of feeling Ms V has about her inability to 
work and the wider commentary shes provided about the impact of her condition, Im not 
persuaded that the medical evidence shows that she was totally unable to work because of 
her ill health. 
Because of this, I cant fairly conclude that it was unreasonable of Phoenix to find that Ms V 
had not demonstrated incapacity in line with the policy terms. 
The delays 
Ms V has clearly been frustrated by the time taken to decide her claim and I note that she 
says Phoenix deliberately delayed, misled and misinterpreted her. 
Whilst I agree that there were some delays, I am not persuaded that I can fairly hold Phoenix 
liable for all of them. And where I can hold Phoenix liable, I am not persuaded the delays 
were unreasonable. Again, I wont recite every event that happened throughout the course of 
Ms Vs claim, but the following are examples of why I have reached this finding:When Ms V sent her completed claim forms in at the beginning of May 2020 one of 
the pages she returned was unsigned. Unfortunately, that missing signature was 
needed to show that Ms V consented to Phoenix approaching her GP for further 
evidence. Phoenix had to re-request this from her which did delay matters slightly, 
but I cant hold Phoenix liable for this.
Phoenix requested further evidence from Ms Vs GP on 5 June 2020, but this wasnt 
returned to Phoenix until 14 July 2020 and I cant hold Phoenix liable for this. 
Phoenix also asked the GP to send the information itd requested by email, given the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19, but the information was returned to Phoenix by 
post. The GPs information was received by Phoenixs post team on 16 July 2020. It 
wasnt made available for a member of staff to review until just over two weeks later, 
on 29 July 2020. This was clearly frustrating for Ms V, and I note that she posted 
another copy of the GPs information to Phoenix too. But given the restrictions that 
were in place because of Covid-19 (which saw many businesses having to adapt to 
different ways of working, often with the majority of their staff working from home), I 
dont think it was unreasonable of the information from Ms Vs GP to have taken just 
over two weeks to make its way from a post room to a member of staff to review.
Ms V was told it would take around 2 weeks for the results of the IME to be made 
available. This timeframe wasnt adhered to because the examiner requested further 
information. Again, I appreciate the frustration Ms V has about this, but I cant hold 
Phoenix liable for the examiner requesting further information. 
Premiums
In addition to the above matters I am aware that Ms V was unhappy about paying premiums 
throughout some parts of her claim and she wanted Phoenix to refund these to her, given 
her concerns about delays. 
Our investigator has rightly explained the terms of Ms Vs policy set out that premiums would 
be waived during periods in which benefit was being paid. But outside of this particular 
waiver, Ms V would have been expected to continue paying premiums towards the policy 
whilst it was active. And so it would not be fair of me to direct Phoenix to refund the 
premiums Ms V was paying during the period in which her claim was being considered and 
decided. 
I am aware that Ms V has also told this service that outside of the declinature of her claim, 
Phoenix took premiums from her after shed cancelled her policy and breached the Data 
Protection Act by sending correspondence to an old address. But Phoenix has not yet been 
given the opportunity to respond to these points. And as I understand matters our 
investigator has since passed these on to Phoenix to address in the first instance. 
Ms V has set out her position at length and its clear that she feels very strongly about whats 
happened. I empathise with the position Ms V has explained she is in and I do of course 
wish Ms Vs health well, but for the reasons given above I cannot fairly direct Phoenix to 
accept this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman