DRN-2109477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy in 2003 in one of the banks branches at the same time
as they applied to re-mortgage. The policy was in Mr Ks sole name and gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they were told they had to take out PPI, they were never advised it was 
optional. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented to Mr and 
Mrs K. So I have thought carefully about their comments and looked at the available 
paperwork. The bank says they would have had to complete a separate PPI application, but 
it no longer has a copy of it, just a sample. But it has provided their mortgage application 
control sheets confirms a completed a PPI application form was received. And I can see 
from the sample form that this set out the options to select or decline PPI, asked a number of 
eligibility questions if it was selected. It also included a separate direct debit mandate for the 
PPI.  Ive found no wording on that form that I think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs K 
to think they had to take out PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage offer said The Borrower has instructed the Bank to provide 
Loanguard with full accident, sickness and unemployment payment protection insurance. 
This also suggests to me it was presented as optional to Mr and Mrs K. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ks points, but I also have to take into account how long ago it 
was and how that might affect what they remember. Overall, given the balance of the 
evidence, I think RBS made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs K agreed to take it 
out.
Mr and Mrs K say RBS recommended the PPI, the bank disagrees. And I havent seen any 
evidence that it considered their individual circumstances before advising them to buy PPI. 
So I think its most likely they didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. This means it 
didnt have to check the policy was right for them. However, it had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so they could make a properly informed choice.
I agree its possible RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs K as much information as it shouldve done. 
But I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this 
because:
Mr K was eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
things not covered by the policy.
Mr K told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was 
sick, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits for up to 12 
months. It would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living 
expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for future needs. Mr and Mrs K 
were borrowing quite a large sum over a number of years secured against their 
home, so given the consequences of missing mortgage repayments I think the PPI 
couldve been useful if Mr K was sick or lost his job.
The PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it provided and it was apparently 
affordable.
So, based on what I know about his circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I dont
think Mr and Mrs K wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because:
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because RBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman