DRN-1489631
Complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
provided him with a number of high-cost short-term credit instalment loans.                        
Background
This complaint is about twelve high-cost short-term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr W between April 2015 and September 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans 2 to 12. Sunny didnt agree. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr W, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr W was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the time it provided Mr W with loan . I say this because I think that proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
that Mr W was unlikely to be able to sustainably make his payments because he was in 
financial difficulty as a result of gambling significant sums of money. 
Sunny continued lending to Mr W despite the fact that it ought to have been aware of this 
and in circumstances where it also ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans 
were more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr W had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans 2 to 5 and 7 to 9;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loan 6 and loans 10 to 12 from the outset. 
The payments Mr G made, either to Sunny or any third party debt purchaser, should 
then be deducted from the new starting balances. If after all adjustments have been 
made any outstanding balances remain, Sunny can only deduct this from what it now 
needs to pay Mr G if it owns the debt. If it doesnt it cant make any deduction;
 
remove any adverse information recorded about loans 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 from Mr Ws 
credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right in the way I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman