DRN-2952295
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to switch her pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
Mrs A, through her representative, complained to Alexander David Securities Limited in 
November 2018. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the 
complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us and it was passed to one of our 
investigators to consider.
The investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it 
wanted us to take into account. However no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator therefore sent his assessment of the complaint to both parties based on the 
evidence that was available.
The investigator noted that Mrs A had said that she was cold called by someone who 
promoted the Just Loans investment to her and said it would be to her advantage to invest.. 
An adviser then came to her house to sign her up. In September 2016 just over £18,000 was 
transferred from her personal pension to a SIPP. Of this £15,000 was then transferred to a 
stockbroking account to be invested in the Just Loans debentures. Mrs A took £2,059 out of 
the SIPP in October 2016.
The investigator said that although Mrs A had signed an indemnity which said that she 
hadnt sought advice, she had subsequently stated that she had been advised. He noted that 
the promotional material he had seen relating to Just Loans debentures said, An investment 
in the Company is only suitable for investors capable of evaluating the risks and merits of 
such investment and who have sufficient resources to bear any loss which may result from 
the investment. The investigator said that Mrs A had little investment experience or 
understanding.
The investigator said that even if St Pauls Marketing hadnt recommended the investment he 
believed the appropriateness rules in COBS 10 applied, and those rules said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable 
security, derivative, or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought to 
have been aware, that the application or order is in response to direct offer financial 
promotion.
The investigator said he understood from the evidence that St Pauls Marketing had arranged 
the investment for Mrs A. And that St Pauls Marketing promoted the investment by direct 
offer. He said his understanding was that the investment was a non-readily realisable 
security. He said COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs As knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is 
appropriate.
The investigator said Mrs A had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of 
making investments of this nature. He concluded that the investment wasnt appropriate for 
her. 
The investigator also noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect 
consumers, and its rules reflected this objective. He said the Principles required St Pauls 
Marketing to, amongst other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them 
fairly. He said St Pauls Marketings interactions with Mrs A had directly resulted in her, as an 
inexperienced investor in her late 50s, investing a large proportion of her pension in illiquid, 
high risk bonds. He said in his view, St Pauls Marketing had failed to act in accordance with 
the Principles or in Mrs As best interests.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. And he went on to set out how 
he thought fair compensation should be calculated. He also said Mrs A should be paid £250 
in addition to any compensation resulting from that calculation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused her. 
The investigator subsequently contacted Alexander David saying he thought it was likely that 
Mrs A hadnt actually suffered a financial loss. And that it might be possible to resolve the 
complaint if it completed the relevant calculation to show the actual position, and offered to 
pay Mrs A the £250 payment for distress and inconvenience.
Alexander David replied saying it was happy with that decision. And it provided calculations 
showing that Mrs A hadnt lost out financially. 
The investigator subsequently responded to Alexander David saying that he didnt think it 
had completed its calculations in accordance with the methodology he had outlined in his 
assessment. However, he had completed his own calculations and agreed that, ultimately, 
these showed that Mrs A hadnt lost out financially. 
The investigator wrote to Mrs A and her representative explaining that Alexander David had 
accepted his assessment but that it thought the calculation of compensation showed no loss. 
Although he thought Alexander Davids calculations werent strictly correct he provided a 
copy of his calculations which ultimately showed no loss had been incurred. And therefore 
he thought only the £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
matter was payable to Mrs A, which Alexander David had agreed to pay.
Mrs A accepted this on 10 February 2021, and Alexander David were notified of her 
acceptance on that same date. However Alexander David havent settled the matter, and 
therefore the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mrs As original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
However both parties accepted the investigators assessment that Mrs As complaint should 
be upheld. However that Mrs A hadnt actually lost out financially as a result of the firms 
failings as shown by the investigators calculations, but that she should be paid £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience the matter had caused her.Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available and having done so have come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator that the complaint should be upheld, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
St Pauls Marketing was involved from the outset and following its input Mrs A transferred her 
pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for 
someone of Mr As background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in 
order to invest in this type of investment without some external prompting. I think it was 
unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it 
initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment 
was going to be made and facilitated it. 
I think the evidence shows it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were 
a non-readily realisable security. COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs As 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or 
service offered, so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her. 
Mr A said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. 
The debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mrs A 
given her knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing. 
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the 
debentures werent appropriate for Mrs A. And like the investigator, I dont think St Pauls 
Marketing paid due regard to Mrs As interests by arranging the transfer and investment 
when the debentures were clearly inappropriate for her. Accordingly, taking all the above into 
account, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr A to transfer and invest in 
a product that was inappropriate for her and she would otherwise not have invested into. So 
I think Mrs As complaint should succeed. 
However, having said all that, Im also satisfied that, in the particular circumstances, Mrs A 
hasnt lost out financially as a result of St Pauls Marketings failings. But I do agree that its 
likely that she suffered a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of the matter. 
Alexander David agreed to pay her the £250 for this as recommended by the investigator, 
and I think that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to pay Mrs A £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman