DRN-2019622
The complaint
Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss H took out three PPI policies at the times as she applied for three secured loans in 
meetings with the bank. The sales took place in October 2000, and February and August 
2001. She paid a monthly amount for the cover and the policies gave her accident, sickness 
and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H says she didnt feel she had a choice. And her representative says the loan 
agreements show the bank had pre-populated the tick boxes selecting PPI. But based on 
what we know about the banks sales process at the time, Miss H would have first 
completed loan application forms. The bank no longer has copies of her forms, which is 
not unreasonable given the time since the sales, but it has provided a sample document. 
This shows it gave the option to accept or decline PPI and Miss H would have needed to 
sign in the Yes box if she wanted it. This would be why the Yes box is pre-printed on 
the agreements. Miss H would, by this stage in the sales process, already have indicated 
on her application form that she wanted PPI, and signed separately to confirm this. And 
Ive found no evidence that for these three sales Halifax didnt follow its standard 
process.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss H said, but based on the documentation Ive seen 
I think its most likely Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Miss H chose to take 
it out for each loan.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss H. And it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She has confirmed there were no 
changes to her circumstances between October 2000 and August 2001. She wasnt 
entitled to any sick pay from her employer, just statutory sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid 
out for up to 60 months for accident and sickness claims and up to 12 months for 
unemployment claims. Miss Hs representative argues the cover wasnt right for Miss H 
as she had no way to cover the 30-day deferral period, but based on her circumstances I 
think she would have been more concerned about being able to make the repayments in 
the longer term. Given her lack of other means, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if 
Miss H was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss H all the information she needed before deciding to 
buy PPI. The cost was clear on the loan agreements. But I dont know if the bank pointed 
out the main things the policies didnt cover. However Miss H doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the 
policies wouldve changed her mind about buying them.
It follows I dont think Miss H has lost out because of any problems with the sales.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman