DRN-3442992
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account. Mr M also complains about the 
time taken and service provided by Santander when completing its review.
 
What happened
On 29 April 2021 a payment for £3,700 was made to Mr Ms account with Santander. The 
payment was flagged by Santanders systems and referred for review. Mr M contacted 
Santander on the same day and was told the payment had been held for further checks. Mr 
M has provided an invoice to show the transfer was linked with a holiday payment he 
needed to make. Santander explained that if Mr M wanted to access cash he would need to 
visit a branch with identification. 
Mr M complained and Santander issued a final response explaining what had happened. It 
took around a month for Santander to review the payment and remove the account block. Mr 
M has explained that during this period he regularly called Santander to obtain an update 
and move things along  
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santanders decision to place a block on Mr Ms account whilst it completed a review 
was reasonable. But the investigator thought Santander couldve completed its review 
quicker and asked it to pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Santander accepted but Mr M didnt agree the level of compensation was fair and asked to 
appeal. As a result, Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it was a shock when Santander placed a hold on the payment Mr M received 
and blocked his account. But the account terms and conditions allow Santander to put a 
block in place in order to review a payment. Santander said the amount Mr M received was 
unusual for his account history. Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements and agree, although I 
can see other instances where significant sums have been received. Im satisfied Santander 
reasonably highlighted the payment for further investigation. I havent been persuaded 
Santanders decision to apply an account block was unfair. 
That being said, I agree with the investigators view that the review appears to have taken 
longer than necessary. The account block was in place for around a month and I understand 
that was inconvenient for Mr M. 
I note Mr M was given information about how to withdraw funds in branch and I understand 
he withdrew £175 whilst the account was blocked. Mr M has told us he asked to withdraw 
larger sums but was denied. But whilst Mr M was able to take out funds from his account, 
the payment he received on 29 April 2021 remained on hold until Santanders review was 
completed. So even if a larger withdrawal had been approved, Mr M wouldnt have had 
access to the transfer funds until Santander released them. 
Ive considered the impact of Santanders delay on Mr M. Looking at his bank statements, I 
cant see any returned regular payments or unpaid bills. And, as noted above, Mr M was 
able to access cash during this time. So whilst I agree the time taken caused Mr M 
inconvenience Im satisfied it was reasonably limited in nature. Mr M has told us he 
repeatedly had to call Santander to chase updates and call backs werent received as 
promised. I can understand how frustrating the service provided was for Mr M and I dont 
doubt it caused some distress. 
Santander has agreed to pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Whilst I 
understand my decision may come as a disappointment to Mr M, Im satisfied that £150 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by the way Santander completes its review. 
As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay him £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman