DRN-1770236
 
The complaint
Mr and Ms P say that Cheshire Building Society mis-sold them a regular premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Nationwide Building Society (NBS) have taken responsibility for the sale so to simplify 
matters it is this business I will refer to throughout my decision.
In 1992 Mr and Ms P took out a mortgage with NBS. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The policy covered their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr P wasnt able to 
work due to accident or sickness or lost his job. 
Mr and Ms P say they were told that taking the policy was a condition of the mortgage. Due 
to the length of time that has passed and lack of sales documentation NBS have not been 
able to confirm this - but accept that it was a possibility that having PPI was a condition of 
the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt enough information to show that Mr and Ms P didnt make an informed choice about 
taking out the policy and that it wouldve provided a useful benefit.
Mr and Ms P disagree. They say that although they were aware of a number of individual 
payments that made up their mortgage payment, they didnt know that PPI was part of the 
package. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ps complaint.
It is not clear whether PPI was condition of the mortgage, but Mr and Ms P say that they 
were told they had to sign up for a package or they couldnt have the mortgage. Ive seen a 
copy of a mortgage statement and can see that the mortgage was an interest only mortgage. 
In this situation from what I understand about lending at the time, I think its fair to say that it 
was not uncommon for businesses including NBS to sell mortgages with a condition that PPI 
was taken. 
This is not unfair or mis-selling  the business is entitled to decide on what basis they wish to 
lend to customers. And it is up to the customer to decide if they are happy with the terms and conditions of the lending on offer  if they are not they are free to go elsewhere.
That being said NBS should have made Mr and Ms P aware that PPI was a condition of the 
mortgage. Understandably due to the passage of time NBS no longer has any of the 
mortgage documentation from Mr and Ms Ps sale. So Ive had make my decision based on 
what information I have and what I think is more likely to have happened. 
The mortgage was taken out during a meeting. Based on what Mr and Ms P have said and 
the type of mortgage they had, I think its likely PPI was a condition of the lending. I think this 
condition wouldve been discussed and an explanation of what PPI is given, because it 
provided important cover for one of the biggest financial commitments one can make during 
their lifetime. 
I can see that PPI and the cost was shown separately on their annual mortgage statement 
under the description Mortgage Care premium. I accept it may not have been clear from 
this description to Mr and Ms P that this was PPI but I wouldve thought if they didnt know 
what this premium was for they wouldve raised this with NBS as they would want to know 
what they were paying for. 
So on balance, at the time of the mortgage was taken out and the policy sold, I think Mr and 
Ms P wouldve understood that they had a PPI policy as part of their mortgage package and 
they agreed to this because they wanted the mortgage. Though I can understand given the 
amount of time that has past why they might not remember this.
From what we know of NBS PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think it was any different here. What this means is that 
NBS didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Ms P, it just gave them information about PPI. This 
information needed to be given in a way that were clear, fair and not misleading so they 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I think 
Mr and Ms P wouldve still taken the mortgage with PPI if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
Mr P was eligible for the PPI.
 
It doesnt look like Mr P wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Mr P says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay, had savings and didnt need 
the policy. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and covered their mortgage 
payments for potentially longer if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or if he lost his job. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Ms P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment and in the midst of starting a family. Given the implications if 
they were unable to meet their repayments I think they wouldve been interested in 
protecting them.  
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Ms P. 
 
This means Mr and Ms P arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by NBS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ps complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman