DRN-3599501
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt carry out her annual boiler 
service or attend to her boiler breakdown.
What happened
Mrs M bought a HomeCare Four home emergency policy with BG in January 2020. The 
policy provided cover for her boiler, controls and central heating, plus repairs to plumbing, 
drains and home electrics. The policy also provided an annual boiler service.
In February 2020, BG completed the first annual boiler service. In November 2021, Mrs M 
realised shed not had her next annual service, so she contacted BG. BG said it was her 
responsibility to book the appointment. Mrs M complained because, having checked her 
policy it said BG would try three times to book an appointment with her before it became her 
responsibility to book one.
Mrs M also complained that BG hadnt attended to repair her boiler when she reported a 
problem in May 2021. She felt let down and asked BG to refund her payments and start the 
policy up again only once it had completed an annual service for her.
BG looked into Mrs Ms complaint and agreed that it hadnt provided the service it shouldve 
done. BG explained that the reminder date was incorrectly set up on its system, so it hadnt 
booked an appointment for Mrs Ms annual boiler service. While it did book an appointment 
when Mrs M complained, it was rescheduled taking it into the following policy year. Because 
BG had missed the boiler service for that policy year, it refunded £65 to Mrs M in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
BG also looked into Mrs Ms complaint that it hadnt attended when her heating failed. It said 
the engineer had needed to move the appointment from an all-day appointment to one in the 
evening, then again to a night-time appointment. Mrs M cancelled the appointment in the 
early evening because a neighbour had resolved the problem. Although BG said it was 
sometimes necessary to move appointments in busy periods, and it referred to the ongoing 
pandemic issues around that time, it offered to increase its payment to Mrs M to £100.
Mrs M didnt think that was enough and continued to complain. BG went on to make a final 
offer of £100 compensation for the shortfall in service, which was in addition to the £65 
refund.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He said BG 
had done enough to acknowledge the missed boiler service and its offer of compensation 
was fair in light of the rescheduled repair appointment.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said shed paid for a service BG didnt provide and she considered it 
a breach of contract. She asked for a refund of her payments. Mrs M also commented on 
other customers experience of home emergency policies.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mrs M hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute about what happened, so I wont repeat everything. 
Instead Ill focus on explaining why Ive reached the decision I have.
Annual boiler service
Mrs M is unhappy that BG didnt complete her second annual boiler service within around 12 
months of the first one. Looking at page 4 of the policy, an annual service is defined as:
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or 
central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and 
regulations.
The period of agreement is defined in the policy as:
the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on your 
statement.
This means BG should carry out a boiler service in each policy year rather than within 12 
months of the last service. Mrs Ms policy started in January 2020 and her first service was 
in February 2020. The policy year renewed in January 2021, so BG shouldve completed a 
second service some time between January 2021 and January 2022  not necessarily within 
12 months of the first service.
So, when Mrs M complained to BG in November 2021 that it had missed her annual boiler 
service, that wasn't the case. BG arranged an appointment which fell within the policy year 
and that wouldve meant BG provided the service within the contract term.
However, due to high demand, BG rescheduled the annual service taking it beyond January 
2022. That meant BG wouldnt have met its responsibility under the contract to complete the 
service within the policy year. Looking again at the policy, on page 33, if a policyholder 
cancels before the end of the agreement but after having an annual service, BG will charge 
£65. BG refunded £65 to Mrs M for the missed boiler service. Im satisfied thats a fair sum 
given it reflects the value BG places on the service within the policy documents.
In summary, although BG hadnt missed the boiler service when Mrs M first complained, it 
did fail to complete the service within the policy year. However, its my view that BG put 
matters right by refunding to Mrs M the amount she paid for the annual service.
Appointments process
I understand Mrs M wouldve been upset and frustrated to hear BG say she shouldve 
arranged her annual service appointment. She rightly pointed out that the policy clearly says 
BG will first make three attempts to arrange an appointment. BG also said it made a mistake 
by failing to set the reminder on her account correctly. So, if Mrs M hadnt chased up an 
appointment, its not clear when that wouldve happened. However, Mrs M did chase up an appointment, as Ive addressed above. But that doesnt put 
right the issue of BG giving Mrs M incorrect advice about the appointment and the time taken 
to look into her concerns and explain why the mistake had happened. 
BG offered Mrs M £100 compensation by way of apology for the service shortfalls. Having 
considered all the evidence, Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Thats because BG caused Mrs M inconvenience and upset but its advice didnt cause any 
material loss. I wouldnt have required any more than BG has already offered so I wont be 
asking it to increase its offer.
Central heating failure
Mrs M asked for a refund of her payments because she said BG simply didnt provide the 
service shed paid for after she reported a fault with her central heating. While I understand 
that the service wasn't offered as Mrs M wouldve liked, BG did make an appointment to 
attend to her central heating fault. The appointment was moved to later in the day and then 
again to overnight. I accept that Mrs M might not have found that acceptable, but BG 
wouldve met its responsibility under the policy. Page 28 says:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
During epidemics or pandemics, we will adhere to Government guidelines concerning 
restriction of non-essential travel and may have to reschedule your repair or visit until 
such time as the restrictions have been eased.
So, although BG rescheduled the appointment, Im satisfied that it was in line with the policy. 
Mrs M subsequently cancelled the appointment because her neighbour was able to resolve 
the problem for her, so it would be unfair to say BG failed to meet its responsibility in respect 
of the repair appointment. Mrs M didnt need any further appointments, thankfully, so there 
wouldve been no reason for BG to attend. But that doesnt mean it should refund the policy 
payments to Mrs M. The service was available to her and thats what she paid the premium 
for. I wont be asking BG to refund the payments.
As a final point, Mrs M commented on media coverage about the service provided under the 
home emergency policy. Its not within my remit to consider other policyholders complaints 
in my consideration of Mrs Ms complaint. Ive looked at the evidence relating to her 
complaint only, and in the circumstances Im satisfied that BG has done enough to put 
matters right. 
In summary, BG refunded £65 to Mrs M for the missed boiler service and it offered £100 for 
the service shortfalls. The offer is in line with what I wouldve required had BG not already 
made the offer. Therefore, I wont be asking BG to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman