DRN-3297923
The complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) increased 
the interest rate for his credit card around the same time it increased the credit limit. 
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Amex. In May 2021 Amex contacted Mr K and advised it had 
taken the decision to increase the credit limit. Mr K was given the choice to opt out and 
advised the increase would take effect from the beginning of July 2021. 
Around a month later, Amex contacted Mr K to say it had completed a review and was giving 
two months notice of its intention to increase the interest rate from 22.2% to 29.1%. Amexs 
letter explained Mr K had the option of opting out of the interest rate increase but that would 
have the effect of closing his account to new spending. 
Mr K complained and said the decision to increase the credit limit was at odds with Amexs 
risk based decision to put the interest rate up. Amex sent Mr K a final response but didnt 
agree it had acted unfairly. Amex said it had increased both the credit limit and interest rate 
in line with the credit cards terms and conditions. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint but felt Amex had dealt with it fairly. 
Mr K asked to appeal and explained that whilst he accepted Amex may have acted in line 
with its terms and condition, his main concerns related to the predatory nature of its decision 
to increase both the interest rate and extend the credit limit during the same period. As Mr K 
has asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, I understand Mr K accepts the terms cover Amexs ability to increase the 
interest rate and credit limit for his credit card. I wont repeat the relevant sections here. Mr K 
has explained that Amexs decision to increase the interest rate from a risk perspective and 
increase the credit limit around the same time are at odds with each other. I can understand 
Mr Ks view and why hes raised concerns. Ive looked at each decision to see if Amex acted 
fairly. 
Amex has explained that the way it calculates interest rates is commercially sensitive and 
takes various factors into account. Amex says it considers the account history, credit file 
information, interest rates generally and external factors when deciding what interest rate to 
apply to a credit card. In Mr Ks case, it reviewed Mr Ks account in June 2021 and took the 
decision to increase the interest rate. I appreciate the level of explanation is basic in nature 
and understand its unlikely to satisfy Mr K. But I have to balance that against a business 
need to keep commercially sensitive information about its criteria confidential. 
I also think its fair to note that Mr K didnt have to accept the interest rate increase. There 
was an option to decline within two months of Amexs letter in June 2021. If Mr K had taken 
that option his balance wouldve been administered on the existing interest rate, but the 
credit card facility wouldve been closed to new spending. Im satisfied Amex gave Mr K 
reasonable notice of its decision to increase the interest rate and that he had the option to 
decline. I havent been persuaded that Amex acted unfairly by increasing Mr Ks interest 
rate. 
In a similar way, Amexs terms allow it to increase the credit limit and Mr K also has the 
option to decline it. Again, Amex uses information it has about Mr K available as well as 
details from his credit file when assessing what credit limit to provide. I havent seen 
anything that indicates the credit limit increase was unaffordable for Mr K or has led to a 
loss. 
I understand Mr K feels the decisions Amex made are at odds. But Im satisfied that Amex is 
able to review both the credit limit and interest rates and change them by giving notice. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent been persuaded that Amex has made a mistake or 
treated him unfairly. As Im satisfied Amex dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman