DRN-3716433
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
settled their storm claim under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Lloyds when high winds caused damage to the roof of their 
property. Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to review and validate the claim.
Based on the report provided by the loss adjuster, Lloyds accepted a storm had caused 
damage to the roof. The loss adjuster said, there is no visible deterioration to the roof 
covering which appears to have been in a sound pre-loss condition, however storm winds 
have dislodged tiles requiring repairs. Lloyds paid a settlement of £793 less £100 to cover 
the policy excess.
Mr and Mrs W commissioned their own roofer to review the roof. The roofer said it was 
evident that the main roof has become severely weakened by the recent storms. It would be 
advisable in our professional opinion for the fitting of a full new roof. Mr and Mrs W decided 
to have their roof replaced at a cost of £6,000 and they think Lloyds should cover this cost 
under their policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. Having assessed both reports, he felt 
the scope of work put forward by Lloyds assessor was more credible  he didnt think there 
was evidence the whole roof required replacement. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so the case 
has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
However, as Lloyds has accepted the claim for storm damage, there is need to consider 
these questions. I will focus on whether I think the settlement paid to rectify the damage 
caused by the storm is fair.
Ive read the report provided by the loss adjuster. I can see he thinks the damage is 
dislodged tiles. This is consistent with what Mr and Mrs W said in their complaint. Mr and 
Mrs W said, at least 12 tiles came off the roof and were destroyed when they hit the ground, 
other tiles (approximately 20) fortunately fell inside my loft as the design of my roof had no 
under felt. If the dislodged tiles were the only damage, then I think the settlement provided 
by Lloyds was reasonable. I think this would be sufficient to repair this damage.
However, Mr and Mrs W said their roofer advised a full replacement would be required. Mr 
and Mrs W have done the right thing in commissioning an expert and they have provided 
details of what he reported. However, for the full roof replacement to be covered by the 
policy, Mr and Mrs W need to demonstrate the whole roof was damaged in the storm, 
meaning it needed replacing. Unfortunately, their roofer has provided a short statement. He 
hasnt provided any photographs of the damage or hasnt provided any evidence in the form 
of a written testimony in support of why he thinks the storm has caused such widespread 
damage to the roof that it needs replacing.
I find the report provided by the loss adjuster to be more persuasive. The loss adjusters 
report is accompanied by several photographs. These photographs generally show the roof 
in a good condition. If the roof needed replacement, I wouldve expected to have seen more 
significant signs of damage to the roof beyond some dislodged tiles. Mr and Mrs Ws roof 
didnt have a felt lining which is common in more modern roofs  however, I wouldnt expect 
the policy to provide an upgrade to what the roof was like in its pre-loss condition.
The loss adjuster pointed out some deficiencies in the mortar around the chimney  but he 
didnt think this was caused by the storm. I think this is a reasonable observation, as I dont 
think this is the kind of damage you would expect from a storm. Its more likely caused by 
wear and tear which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs W of course are entitled to have their roof replaced. However, I havent seen 
evidence that Lloyds ever set the expectation this would be covered by the policy. I think 
Lloyds has settled the claim fairly based upon a report from their loss adjuster. I havent 
seen any persuasive evidence that the whole roof needed replacing. Therefore, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman