DRN-3795018
The complaint
Mrs D complains that MCE Insurance Limited mishandled her motorcycle insurance policy.
Where I refer to MCE, I refer to the above-named company and I include employees and
others insofar as I hold MCE responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mrs D took out a policy from 1 February 2022. She paid a deposit or initial payment of about
£67.00 and agreed to pay instalments of about £29.00 on the first day of each of the eight
months from 1 March 2022.
In the early hours of 1 March 2022, MCE tried to take the first instalment, but it didnt go
through. MCE applied a £30.00 charge. Mrs D contacted MCE that morning but MCE
declined to remove the £30.00 charge. Mrs D complained to MCE about that.
By a final response dated April 2022, MCE turned down the complaint. Mrs D brought her
complaint to us without delay. She asked for an apology and confirmation that her credit
record hadnt been adversely affected.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that
Mrs D had made the payment of about £29.00 and the fee of £30.00 on 1 March 2022. He
recommended that MCE should:
1. refund Mrs D the £30.00 fee; and
2. if MCE have reported a late payment to the credit reference agencies, they should 
contact them to get this removed.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs D 
and to MCE on 12 October 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt minded that MCE treated Mrs D unfairly by charging the £30.00 default fee 
and declining to withdraw it. 
Mrs D didnt make any payment. Mrs D didnt ask us to direct MCE to refund the 
£30.00 fee. So  unlike the investigator  I wasnt minded to find it fair and 
reasonable to direct MCE to refund it.
Mrs D couldve obtained her credit history and shared it with us, but she hadnt done 
so. So there was no evidence that MCE recorded a late payment. So  unlike the 
investigator  I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to contact 
any credit reference agencies.
Overall I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to do any more in
response to this complaint.
Subject to any further information from Mrs D or from MCE, my provisional decision was that 
I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct MCE Insurance Limited to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
MCE hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
Mrs D disagreed with the provisional decision in part. she says, in summary, that: 
Since she paid the deposit for the policy on her payment card, she still has the same 
card.
She stands by her bank and their advice with regards to the payment method being 
incorrect. 
On the evening of 10 March 2022, MCE sent her an email as follows:
Were moving to a new payment system on 11/03/2022 and need to take 
your card details again.
After this, she changed her card details to a card that card does not require approval 
for payments to go off.
Conveniently, its only now that MCE have changed the times the payments are 
taken.
MCE arent being completely forthcoming with their side of the story or there is a lack 
of communication between the different departments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP). One of those rules has the effect that  before we may consider a
consumers complaint  the consumer mustve complained to the financial firm and waited
up to eight weeks for a final response.
The policy documents were branded in the name of MCE. But the documents made clear
that MCE acted as an intermediary between Mrs D and an insurance company which also
provided credit under a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) credit agreement.
Im satisfied that MCE explained that a CPA wasnt a direct debit.
MCEs terms of business included the following fee:
MCE Payment Plan default fee
Administration fee for contacting you and assisting in collecting outstanding
payments £30.Im satisfied that MCE could charge a fee of £30.00 if it had to contact Mrs D to collect
payment. I dont find that unfair, as Mrs D had agreed to pay by CPA on her card.
As Mrs D had agreed to pay by CPA on her card, I dont consider that MCE did anything
incorrect by trying to collect the payment in the early hours of 1 March 2022. And  whatever
went wrong with the payment of about £29.00 MCE had to contact Mrs D about it. 
So I consider that the £30.00 fee was in line with MCEs terms. I dont conclude that MCE
treated Mrs D unfairly by charging the £30.00 default fee- and declining to withdraw it.
Mrs D rang to make the payment of about £29.00. But its common ground that MCE said it
couldnt take that payment without also taking the £30.00 fee. 
I accept Mrs Ds statement that she didnt make any payment. Mrs D didnt ask us to direct 
MCE to refund the £30.00 fee. So  unlike the investigator  I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct MCE to refund it.
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ds statement that it was later that she changed the card from 
which payments were to be taken. That change had no bearing on what happened on 1 
March 2022. 
Similarly, MCEs later change of the time of day at which it applies for payments had no 
bearing on what happened on 1 March 2022.
I dont consider that Mrs D has complained to MCE that it treated her unfairly by cancelling
her policy. So I cant deal with any complaint about that at this stage.
I would expect MCE to calculate the balance due from or to Mrs D including the insurance 
companys a pro-rata charge for her time on cover of about six weeks. But I dont consider 
that Mrs D has complained to MCE that it treated her unfairly by its calculation of any 
balance. So I cant deal with any complaint about that at this stage.
Mrs Ds complaint to us asked us to direct MCE to apologise and to give confirmation that it
hadnt affected her credit history. But I havent found that MCE treated Mrs D unfairly by 
charging the £30.00 default fee and declining to withdraw it. So I dont consider it fair and 
reasonable to direct MCE to apologise.
Mrs D couldve obtained her credit history and shared it with us, but she hasnt done so. So
theres no evidence that MCE recorded a late payment. So  unlike the investigator  I dont 
consider it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to contact any credit reference agencies.
Overall I dont conclude that it is fair and reasonable to direct MCE to do any more in
response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct MCE Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman