DRN-3496167
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited have handled 
his claim under his motor insurance policy and what theyve paid in settlement of it. 
What happened
Mr Gs campervan was damaged in an accident on 13 September 2021. He contacted 
Markerstudy to make a claim for this. He was told they didnt have an approved repairer 
within 40 miles of where he lived and they asked him to get an estimate for the van to be 
repaired. Mr G sent an estimate to Markerstudy on 17 September for £4,531.20, including 
VAT. This was based on the repairer using second-hand parts. Markerstudy made an offer 
to settle Mr Gs claim by paying cash-in-lieu of repairs on 30 September. The amount offered 
was £3,776, based on the estimate Mr Gs broker had sent, less VAT and the £100 policy 
excess. Markerstudy said they would pay the VAT once the repairs had been carried out.
Mr Gs broker then emailed Markerstudy on 5 October to say the second-hand parts 
included in the first estimate were no longer available. They attached a revised estimate of 
£6,571.20, including VAT, based on the parts needed to repair Mr Gs vehicle being 
imported from Japan. Markerstudy wouldnt increase their offer. They said there was a term 
in Mr Gs policy which said they wouldnt pay the additional cost to import parts that werent 
available in the geographical limits set out in it. Eventually, Mr Gs broker sent a further 
estimate of £8,131.50, although the garage concerned had said there could be an issue 
getting the parts and they werent sure on the cost of these.
Markerstudy still wouldnt increase their settlement offer and paid the amount they had 
offered, ie £3,776. Mr G made a complaint and kept what Markerstudy had paid in his bank 
account. Markerstudy issued a final response on 5 December 2021 maintaining their offer 
was fair. However, they did acknowledge they could have provided a slightly better level of 
service and paid £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr G complained to us and one of our investigators considered his complaint. She didnt 
think Markerstudys approach was fair. She said Markerstudy should establish how much it 
would cost to import the parts required to repair Mr Gs van. And then appoint a repairer to 
order these and repair it and cover the costs. She also said Markerstudy didnt do enough to 
help Mr G and that they should pay him an additional £200 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this.
Mr G said hed accept the investigators suggested outcome if Markerstudy agreed to it. But, 
Markerstudy didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2022 and I set out what Id provisionally decided as 
follows:
I dont think Markerstudy have handled Mr Gs claim very well and treated him fairly. Under
the terms of his policy Markerstudy does have the right to pay cash-in-lieu of repairs. But this
amount should represent the actual cost to Mr G of having his van repaired and not leave
him not being able to make this happen.
So, I dont think Markerstudy should have made a cash-in-lieu offer excluding VAT, when it
was their choice to pay cash, as opposed to Mr G refusing to use one of their approved
repairers. This left Mr G in a difficult position, with less money than he needed to get his van
repaired. I appreciate Markerstudy said they would pay the VAT once the repairs had been
completed, but I do not think it is fair for an insurer to put a consumer in the difficult position
of having to find a large sum of money towards the cost of repairs and then wait to be
reimbursed for this, when it is the insurers choice to settle the claim by paying cash.
As well as including VAT, the cost of repairs should also include the cost of any parts.
Normally parts would be available in the UK and their cost would reflect this. This is not the
case with Mr Gs van and there is a specific clause in his policy that means Markerstudy
dont have to pay the additional cost of importing parts that arent available in the UK.
However, if Markerstudy were only required to pay the cost of the repairs if the parts were
available in the UK, Mr G then wouldnt have enough money to get his van repaired. 
I can appreciate the reason Markerstudy have this clause in the policy, ie to minimise what 
they pay to repair a vehicle they are insuring and avoid what can be a significant additional 
cost for imported parts. However, I think it is going to be difficult to import the parts and the 
cost of doing this is unclear. And this may leave Mr G being unable to have his van repaired.
In view of this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Gs complaint is for Markerstudy
to write off Mr Gs van and pay him the market value, that is what it would cost to replace it in
the retail market with one of a similar make, model, specification and mileage. But
Markerstudy can deduct the policy excess from this amount. I say this, because to all intents
and purposes Mr Gs van cant be economically repaired. Therefore, it should be treated as
a write-off. This will then give Mr G the option to buy a replacement. This would be on the
basis that Markerstudy assumes possession of the damaged van.
I appreciate Mr G has said he wants to retain the van. And I agree he should have the option
to do this, although I am not sure how he intends to have it properly repaired. However, if he
would like to keep it Markerstudy will be entitled to deduct whatever they would get for it if
they sold it as salvage. Otherwise Markerstudy will be losing out, when under normal
circumstances they would get to retain the damaged van as salvage and make whatever
they can on this.
As Ive already mentioned, Markerstudy needs to pay the market value of Mr Gs van, less
any policy excess applicable. So, Ive tried my best to establish what the market value
currently is. It has been very difficult to do this, as we have only been able to find 12 similar
vans advertised for sale in the UK in the previous 12 months. And these have a wide range
of mileages and conditions. I appreciate he has sent us many adverts for what he has said
are similar vans for sale, but there is very little detail on the vans shown in these in terms of
age, mileage and specification. So, Ive worked out an average for the likely cost of replacing
Mr Gs van based on the adverts Ive seen. And I think this is £5,800. I think this is a fair
market value and Markerstudy should pay this less the £100 policy excess applicable.
I do appreciate Mr G thinks it will cost a lot more than £5,800 to replace his van, but the
adverts Ive seen do not suggest this is the case, especially taking into account the high
mileage of his van. And whilst the adverts Ive seen are from the last year, I think they are
likely to reflect what it would have cost Mr G to replace his van at the time it was damaged.
This is because the cost of second-hand vehicles has tended to go up in recent times due to
the impact of the pandemic. Especially, with regards to less common ones. I also note that
the policy schedule shows the value as £7,500.
As Ive already explained, if Mr G wants to retain his van, then Markerstudy will need toestablish what it would get for the salvage and deduct this as well. It would be helpful if
Markerstudy could let me know what this will be in response to this provisional decision, just
in case it is needed. If Mr C would rather take what Markerstudy offered in cash, without the
VAT being deducted, ie £4,531.20, he can do this instead. Hell then receive the balance
above the amount he has already received and put in his bank account.
Ive also considered the impact Markerstudys poor handling of Mr Gs claim has had on him.
I agree with our investigator that Markerstudy seem to have said they would get one of their
engineers involved. And later they said they would appoint an approved repairer. But neither
of these things seems to have happened. And their unfair approach to the claim left Mr G
with a van he had to patch up with gaffer tape so he could use it. And it seems in some
periods, due to his situation, Mr G slept in it when it was damp due to damage caused in his
accident. Therefore, although I do not fully understand the reasons why Mr G used the van
to sleep in and what his other options were, he has clearly been through a very distressing
time because of Markerstudys unfair approach to his claim. Whilst it is hard to put a figure in
terms of compensation on this, I think the £250 our investigator suggested is fair. This
reflects the fact Mr Gs van was still driveable.
I gave both parties until 18 May to provide further comments or evidence. 
Mr G has responded. He has said he thinks the market value I have suggested is way off, 
but he has no further comments to make. Markerstudy queried how I arrived at a market 
value of £5,800 for Mr Gs vehicle and asked for evidence to support this. I sent Markerstudy 
the evidence Id obtained of similar vehicles sold in the previous 12 months. It came back to 
say it would receive 18% of the market value under its salvage scheme if it took ownership 
of the damaged vehicle and that it would place a salvage category on it under the 
Association of British Insurers Salvage Code of S. This means it would be classed as 
structurally damaged but repairable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the market value of Mr Gs campervan by reference to one of the industry 
guides and theyve provided a list of likely selling costs for similar vehicles in the previous 12 
months or so. Therefore, Im satisfied that what Ive suggested is fair. 
Im surprised by Markerstudys suggestion that they would place a salvage marker on Mr Gs 
van of S if it was deemed a total loss. I say this because they were quite willing to make a 
cash-in lieu offer with no mention of the vehicle being written-off. And the repair estimate 
doesnt suggest to me there is clear evidence of any structural damage. Although, I 
appreciate their engineer is better qualified than me to determine this. 
This makes it more difficult for me to decide the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Gs 
complaint, as a total loss settlement based on a market value of £5,800, less his excess and 
an 18% deduction for salvage (£1,044) would be £4,656. This would mean Mr G could keep 
his vehicle, but it would have a salvage marker on it and he may well not have enough 
money to get it repaired. The salvage marker would also make getting it repaired and back 
on the road more difficult. 
What is clear is that due to the difficulty getting parts it will be quite difficult to repair Mr Gs 
vehicle. I also think the problems all started because Markerstudy offered an inappropriate 
cash-in-lieu settlement without VAT. And I think this has to be taken into account in 
determining what the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is. The first two estimates Mr G provided were both for second-hand parts, although the second 
one allowed an amount for the cost of importing these. The final estimate Mr G provided 
seems to be based on new parts. But, the cost of repairs in this estimate of £8,131.01 is well 
above the market value of Mr Gs vehicle. And the maximum payable under the policy would 
be the market value, less the policy excess. 
I think whatever Markerstudy has to pay as a cash-in-lieu settlement needs to reflect the 
higher cost of new parts, but also reflect the fact that the maximum payable under Mr Gs 
policy is the market value of his van at the time it was damaged, less his policy excess, ie 
£5,700. This is because an insurer  as a matter of good industry practice, would usually pay 
the cost of repairs based on the cost of new replacement parts, as opposed to second-hand 
ones. 
So  having given this complaint a great deal of further consideration, I think if I make 
Markerstudy pay £5,700 as a cash-in-lieu settlement, ie without it being classed as a total 
loss, based on the final estimate Mr G provided for the repairs to his van, it would be fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate the final estimate provided suggests that technically Mr Gs van is 
uneconomic to repair, but I think a settlement amount of £5,700 is fair and reasonable. This 
is because it reflects:
the unusual nature of Mr Gs vehicle;
the problems hes had in this case due to Markerstudys original approach;
the fact Markerstudy didnt indicate there was any structural damage to his vehicle 
originally; and
the fact it does seem his van can be safely repaired. 
Markerstudy will also still need to pay more compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor handling, as I suggested in my provisional decision.    
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said above, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is 
for Markerstudy to pay Mr G a further £1,924 in settlement of Mr Gs claim, ie £5,700 less 
the £3,776 theyve already paid. Markerstudy must also pay Mr G a further £200 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint and make Markerstudy Insurance Plc pay him what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman