DRN-1461709
 
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy with the way AIG has handled his claim under a personal accident policy.
What happened
Mr H had an accident in 2003 which led to septic arthritis in both knees. Mr H had a number 
of surgeries and treatment for his knees and was medically discharged from the army. He 
hasnt done any work since 2007. 
A number of medical opinions were sought where the doctors felt that Mr H would be able to 
do a desk-based job and so AIG said he didnt meet the definition of permanent total 
disablement (PTD). 
In February 2019, a specialist knee surgeon said Mr H would be able to carry out some work 
after total knee replacement surgery. However, in July 2019, following some tests, the 
specialist said that Mr H was at significant risk of infection if he had surgery and his condition 
could worsen. As a result, Mr H would be unable to do any work whatsoever due to his level 
of mobility and pain. And so at this stage, Mr H met the definition of PTD.
Mr H wants AIG to backdate his claim to 2007 and pay him interest as he has been unable 
to do any work whatsoever due to the medication he has been on since then for chronic post 
injury knee pain syndrome.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think AIG needed to do anything further. 
She said there was no medical evidence that Mr H couldnt work due to his PTD before 2019 
and so AIG hadnt dealt with Mr Hs claim unfairly. 
After AIG sent its final response, further medical evidence was provided which showed Mr H 
was unable to do paid work of any kind and so it paid the claim. It also offered to pay Mr H 
£5,000 interest as a gesture of goodwill. Our investigator thought this was a generous offer. 
But Mr H disagreed.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy says it will pay out:If you suffer accidental bodily injury during the period of cover which, within 2 years solely 
and independently of any other cause, results in death, permanent disablement, specified 
burns, specified fractures or hospitalisation, we will pay the total sum insured.
Permanent total disablement is defined in the policy as:
total inability to do paid work of any kind which will probably last for the rest of your life.
Mr Hs knee problems have clearly caused him considerable pain and difficulties and as a 
result, he has been unable to work. He feels that his claim should be backdated to the date 
he stopped working.  
But the policy doesnt simply pay out from the date a customer stops working. The policy 
pays out for PTD when medical evidence confirms an inability to do any paid work which will 
probably last for the rest of your life. In Mr Hs case, it was thought that he would be able to 
do some form of work after a successful knee replacement. 
And whilst Mr H hasnt worked since 2007, it wasnt until 2019 that the specialist confirmed 
Mr H wouldnt be able to do any work whatsoever as a result of the risk of infection if Mr H 
went ahead with knee replacement surgery. Prior to this, the experts thought Mr H would be 
able to do some form of work following successful knee replacement surgery and AIG were 
entitled to rely on those medical opinions in the absence of any contrary findings. 
As Mr H only met the definition of PTD in 2019 based on new medical evidence, I dont 
agree that AIG should have paid the claim in 2007 as there was no evidence at the time that 
Mr H wasnt going to be able to work for the rest of his life. 
However, AIG has offered to pay Mr H £5,000 interest as a gesture of goodwill, and it has 
confirmed that this offer is still open for acceptance. If Mr H would like to accept this offer, he 
should let AIG know. 
As AIG paid the claim once the medical expert confirmed that Mr H wouldnt be able to do 
any work, Im satisfied that it has acted reasonably here. And so, I wont be asking AIG to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think AIG has done anything wrong.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman