DRN-2913267
The complaint
Mr C has complained that One Sure Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and charged him fees when doing so. 
What happened
One Sure arranged a policy for Mr C in 2019 which renewed in 2020. Mr C paid for the policy 
premium in monthly instalments to a finance provider. Some of Mr Cs payments were late 
as direct debits failed and he also arranged a payment holiday. One Sure rang Mr C on 
21 August 2020. It reminded him that he needed to pay his outstanding balance, of around 
£174 by 28 August 2020. It then wrote to him to advise that his account was in arrears and if 
he didn't make payment by 28 August 2020 it would cancel his policy. Mr C didn't make the 
payment and One Sure cancelled the policy on 3 September 2020.
Mr C didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She thought it was reasonable for One Sure to cancel Mr Cs policy and to 
charge him fees associated with that cancellation. But she said that One Sure should record 
the cancellation as cancelled by Mr C rather than as cancelled by the insurer. She also said 
that it should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr C.
One Sure didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint, so it's been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. 
One Sure acted as an insurance broker, which means it arranged Mr Cs policy. But it didn't 
actually provide the cover, which was offered by the underwriter of the policy - the insurer - 
which is a separate business. 
Mr C took out an annual insurance policy and the insurer charged an annual premium 
upfront. Mr C chose to pay for the policy in monthly instalments. To do so, he entered into a 
separate finance agreement with a finance provider. The finance provider paid the annual 
premium to the insurer on Mr Cs behalf and Mr C agreed to repay the finance provider in 
line with the terms of the finance agreement. So, the insurer had received the annual 
premium direct from the finance provider at the outset. 
Mr C agreed to repay the finance provider by monthly direct debit payment. But those direct 
debits sometimes failed and he found himself in arrears. One Sure arranged a payment 
holiday for Mr C. It also arranged for him to make late payments by phone. But, on 
21 August 2021 it told Mr C he needed to make payment by 28 August 2020 and that it 
would cancel his policy if he didn't do so. It also amended his future direct debit dates to the 
end of the month at Mr Cs request.
Mr C said he phoned One Sure and the finance provider on 28 August 2020 in order to make 
payment. He said he couldn't get through to the appropriate department. His account is that 
he was eventually told, by an automated message, that owing to Covid One Sure was 
closing early. We asked Mr C if he had evidence of this call, for example a phone bill 
showing it, but he hasn't provided that evidence. In contrast One Sure said it has no record 
of a call from Mr C on 28 August 2020. And that, while it was busy, it didn't close early 
because of Covid. So I'm not persuaded by Mr Cs evidence that it was One Sures actions 
that prevented him from paying his premium on 28 August 2020. And I note he still hadn't 
paid it by 3 September 2020 when One Sure actually cancelled the policy. 
One Sures terms of reference, which Mr C agreed to, say that it may cancel his policy if he 
didn't make payment. It was clear from his payment history that Mr C had been struggling to 
afford his finance repayments for some time. And One Sure had taken steps to try to help 
him with those. But it's evident he continued to struggle. So, as One Sure had warned Mr C 
that it may cancel his policy if it didn't receive payment by 28 August 2020, and he didn't 
make that payment I think it was reasonable that it went ahead and cancelled his agreement.
Further, One Sures terms of business set out the fees and charges it will apply when 
cancelling a policy. And Mr C agreed to those terms when he took the policy out. So I think it 
was reasonable that One Sure applied the fees that Mr C had agreed to when it cancelled 
the policy. It follows that I think it would be fair for One Sure to take action to seek to recover 
any sums outstanding now by arranging an affordable repayment plan with him. 
But, its notable that One Sure has recorded that it was the insurer which cancelled the 
policy. But thats not right. One Sure cancelled the policy because Mr C didn't make the 
agreed payments to the finance provider. The insurer played no part in that process 
whatsoever. Mr C didn't owe any money to the insurer. The insurer had received the 
premium payment in full; and it wasn't in its interests to cancel the policy, as that would 
result in it paying a premium refund to the finance provider. So One Sure wasn't acting for 
the insurer when it cancelled the policy. Instead it was acting in its role as a credit 
broker/debt adjuster under the terms of its agreements between Mr C and the finance 
provider. 
So, given that the cancellation didn't involve the insurer I don't think its fair for One Sure to 
record the cancellation as cancelled by insurer. That's because, many insurers see 
consumers whove had a policy cancelled by an insurer as a high risk. And that can affect a 
consumers ability to source policies and their premiums for years to come. And as I don't 
think thats fair in the circumstances to say the insurer cancelled the policy, One Sure should 
amend how the cancellation is recorded to show that it was not cancelled by the insurer.
In response to our investigators assessment One Sures said that it can't do that. But I find 
that comment hard to believe. Its not uncommon for this service to instruct brokers or 
insurers to change how a cancellation has been recorded when that's been done in error. 
And I think One Sure must have a method for correcting any mistakes that it makes. So I'm 
satisfied it's fair to instruct One Sure to amend the record of the cancellation.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require One Sure Insurance 
Limited to:
Amend the record of the policy cancellation so that it no longer shows as cancelled 
by the insurer.
Offer Mr C an affordable repayment plan with the finance provider.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman