DRN-3973051
The complaint
Mr C complains AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly settled a claim hes made on his building 
insurance policy.
What happened
AXA is the underwriter of the policy, i.e. it is the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of AXAs agents which AXA has accepted its accountable for. References I make to 
AXA includes the actions of its agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr C owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
AXA. The property experienced water damage following a flash flood. Mr C made a 
claim on the policy for the damage to the property and its contents. This complaint 
focuses on the buildings claim. 
AXA accepted the buildings claim but said the property was underinsured and so it 
would only pay 62% of the claim amount in settlement. Mr C was unhappy with this 
and said AXA had provided him with guidance in deciding the buildings rebuild cost 
and so had misadvised him when he took the policy out. AXA denied this and said it 
relied on policyholders to provide true and accurate information.
It said, on annual renewal of the policy in 2020, Mr C asked to increase the 
outbuildings sum insured and amended documents were sent confirming the revised 
policy limit. And the documentation explained a claim would be settled on a 
proportionate basis if the sum insured was found to be inadequate, as it was in this 
case.
Mr C raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator requested further 
information from AXA numerous times but it failed to provide it so she proceeded with 
the evidence she had. She upheld Mr Cs complaint as she wasnt satisfied AXA had 
explained sufficiently why the rebuild cost Mr C gave was unreasonable. And 
because of this she didnt think it was fair for AXA to proportionally settle the claim. 
She told AXA it should pay the whole claim together with 8% simple interest on the 
additional amount and £300 compensation. 
Mr C accepted her findings although he thought he should receive more 
compensation. AXA provided some further information about the original application 
process but didnt respond to the Investigators request for further information about 
the rebuild value it had provided in January 2023.
So, the complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key thing for me to decide in this complaint is whether the question AXA asked Mr C 
about the rebuild cost was clear and whether Mr Cs answer to the question was reasonable. 
My starting point is the policy terms. 
The policy terms 
Im satisfied the terms allow AXA to proportionally settle the claim where theres 
underinsurance. In my experience, this is a common term across many insurance 
policies and the term is clear and not misleading. 
AXA calculated the rebuild cost as £324,000 but Mr C had only insured the buildings 
for £200,000. So AXA said Mr C was only insured for 62% of the true rebuild cost 
and so it settled the claim proportionally and paid Mr C 62% of the claim value, 
amounting to £16,772 after deduction of the excess.
Whilst I recognise the policy term allows AXA to reduce the claim in this way, I must 
also consider whether doing so would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in all 
the circumstances. AXA is applying the term because it says Mr C didnt provide a 
reasonable estimate of the rebuild cost when he took out and renewed the policy. So, 
I think its fair to consider what information AXA asked him to provide at those times  
and whether his responses were reasonable.
The rebuild cost during the 2019 sales process
Ive kept in mind here, deciding on a correct rebuild cost is not an exact science and 
its likely if a number of builders were asked to provide an estimate to build the same 
house, theyd each provide a different figure. Indeed, AXA has quoted a wide range 
of different figures in its evidence. I also have to keep in mind here, Mr C isnt an 
expert in this subject, nor is he expected to be, and hes likely to be reliant on the 
guidance he receives during the application process in deciding on the figure 
required.
Mr C used an insurance comparison site to obtain quotes. When selling a policy 
through a comparison website, AXA is responsible for the questions asked, and any 
other guidance or information provided, by the website.
Ive considered what Mr C was asked about the level of buildings cover he required 
and the guidance he was provided to help him answer this.
Theres some disagreement about the exact nature of what Mr C would have seen 
when he obtained quotes from the comparison website and whether there was a link 
to an external rebuild cost calculator.  Mr C has provided screenshots of this part of 
the comparison site quote journey including the part about what level of buildings 
cover he requires. From these, it seems to me there was a built-in rebuild cost 
calculator, but Ive seen evidence this was unable to calculate a figure for Mr Cs 
property. So Im not persuaded any disagreement about exactly what was there at 
the time makes a difference anyway as the calculator was unable to provide 
guidance in Mr Cs circumstances. 
During the quote process, Mr C was asked how much it would cost to rebuild his property but he was given little explanation about what this meant in practice. The 
question was accompanied by the following explanation (with the emphasis being 
mine): Rebuild cost is typically less than market value. Think of the property 
value without the land.  Alternatively, you could check your latest mortgage 
valuation or insurance documents. Mr C has shown this same advice is given today 
and I have confirmed this myself. 
Mr C doesnt have a copy of any mortgage valuation from when he purchased the 
property but had paid £218,000 for it. In his mortgage offer documentation from 2018, 
which I have seen, theres no rebuild cost detailed but his lender quotes the 
estimated value to be £220,000. 
Mr C says he decided on a rebuild cost of £200,000 which was slightly less than the 
market value of the property with an adjustment to reach a figure excluding the large, 
landscaped garden which he says was in line with the guidance he received, detailed 
above. 
Having obtained quotes, Mr C completed the purchase of the policy over the phone 
direct with AXA. Ive listened very carefully to this call and note AXA didnt request 
any clarification of the buildings sum insured or provide any further information about 
how this could be calculated.
Mr C says an AXA agent gave him advice on the level of cover he should take out, 
but I didnt hear this during the conversation I listened to. I know Mr C believes AXA 
must have doctored the call but hes not supplied any evidence to support this and 
Im not persuaded this belief has merit. Our Investigator asked if AXA had records of 
any other calls  apart from this and the one detailed below - but it failed to respond 
despite being chased several times.
Ive thought about this very carefully and, taking into account the question Mr C was 
asked, the guidance he was given and the information he had available to him when 
taking out the policy, Im satisfied his answer to the question - £200,000 - was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Renewal in 2020, the year of the claim
Mr C spoke to AXA in 2020 shortly before the policy was due to renew. He increased 
the sum insured for an outbuilding that had just been added to the deeds of the 
property.  The agent did mention rebuild cost calculators but there was no further 
discussion about the rebuild cost of the main property. 
Having listened carefully to this call, Mr C strikes me as a prudent individual and his 
manner is indicative of somebody taking care to give reasonable information, ie not 
somebody who acted without due care and attention when providing information, 
Revised documents were sent but there was no further guidance or explanation of 
rebuild costs included with this, just an instruction to check the information therein 
was correct and a warning about the consequences if they werent.
AXA says Mr C was provided with a link to an external rebuild cost calculator 
although there is some disagreement about this. But even if he was provided with 
this, Mr C has shown the calculator is unable to provide a figure due to the date and 
construction of his property. So, Im not persuaded it makes any difference anyway. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing here which persuades me Mr C was given new information by AXA which ought to have led him to question the rebuild cost of the main property 
or that it needed to be revised. 
Overall, was Mr Cs rebuild figure reasonable? 
AXA calculated a number of different rebuild figures between £200,000 and £460,000 
before settling on the final figure of £324,000 and this highlights to me the challenge 
of finding the correct rebuild figure. Our Investigator asked for further explanation of 
this figure but AXA didnt respond to her enquiries and from the evidence Ive seen 
its not clear to me whether this includes the outbuildings Mr C added to the policy or 
whether it relates to the main building only. 
Taking everything Ive said above into account, Im satisfied the rebuild cost Mr C 
provided to AXA was reasonable given the question it asked him and the guidance it 
provided. AXA hasnt done enough to persuade me this figure was unreasonable and 
it follows I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for AXA to proportionally settle his 
claim.
Putting things right
AXA should now settle the full extent of the claim without reliance on the 
underinsurance policy term and subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
It should also pay 8% simple per annum* on the additional amount from the date it 
made the initial settlement until the date it pays Mr C the remainder.
Its clear Mr C has found the claim stressful and hes explained the impact on him 
and his family. Ive thought carefully about this and have decided AXA should pay Mr 
C £300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused through its handling of the claim.  
I know Mr C doesnt think this is enough, but Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle the full extent of the claim without reliance on the underinsurance policy term 
and subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions.
It should also pay 8% simple per annum* on the additional amount from the date it 
made the initial settlement until the date it pays Mr C the remainder.
Pay Mr C £300 compensation.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman