DRN-2940728
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy because Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
  
What happened
Miss B had some investment experience and had used a certain trading platform. She saw a 
social media advert posted by someone Ill call Mr A who said he could make good profits 
with stocks and shares. Mr A had good reviews. Miss B got in touch with Mr A and agreed to 
invest £100 from an account held with another bank on 30 September 2020. Miss B says 
she checked that £100 was all shed have to pay, and Mr A agreed. Miss B didnt complete 
any checks before transferring £100 to the account details provided by Mr A. The account 
was in the name of an individual who wasnt Mr A. 
Mr A then asked Miss B to transfer further funds. She says she asked why as she thought 
she was making a one-off payment and Mr A said she needed to create a transaction history 
for when she received profits of £5,000 to £6,000, it was all part of the process and the funds 
would be returned by the end of the day. After a few days, and after transferring around 
£3,000 from both accounts Miss B says she was worried and told Mr A she just wanted her 
money back and wasnt concerned about the profit. Mr A told her shed lose all her funds if 
she didnt make further payments. He also asked her for her card and PIN and made cash 
withdrawals. Miss B said she saw from her online banking that profits were gradually being 
added to her account. 
I have set out below relevant transactions from Miss Bs account and included payments in 
ordinary font, credits in bold and transfers to Miss Bs other account with another bank in 
italics. 
Date Amount Payment type Recipient/Sender
01/10/20 £451.05 Transfer out Person 1
01/10/20 £750 Transfer out Person 1
01/10/20 £750 Transfer out Person 2
01/10/20 £250 Transfer out Person 2
02/10/20 £1,250 Transfer out Person 2
04/10/20 £250 Transfer out Person 3
04/10/20 £500 Transfer out Person 3
04/10/20 £250 Transfer out Person 3
05/10/20 £500 Transfer out Person 3
06/10/20 £575.52 Transfer out Person 3
08/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 4
08/10/20 £58.82 Transfer in Person 4
08/10/20 £100 Transfer in Person 4
08/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 4
08/10/20 £152.13 Transfer in Person 4
08/10/20 £411 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
08/10/20 £250 Cash withdrawal n/a
09/10/20 £471.72 Transfer in Person 4
09/10/20 £471.72 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
09/10/20 £500 Transfer in Person 4
09/10/20 £500 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
09/10/20 £950 Transfer in Person 4
09/10/20 £950 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
09/10/20 £100 Transfer in Person 4
09/10/20 £100 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
09/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 5
09/10/20 £212.33 Transfer in Person 5
09/10/20 £263 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
09/10/20 £300 Transfer in Person 5
09/10/20 £300 Cash withdrawal n/a
09/10/20 £87.96 Transfer in Person 5
09/10/20 £87.96 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
10/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 5
10/10/20 £50 Cash withdrawal n/a
10/10/20 £250 Cash withdrawal n/a
10/10/20 £70 Cash withdrawal n/a
10/10/20 £230 Cash withdrawal n/a
11/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 6
12/10/20 £195 Transfer in Person 5
12/10/20 £40 Transfer in Person 5
12/10/20 £500 Transfer in Person 5
12/10/20 £430 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
12/10/20 £268.80 Transfer in Person 5
12/10/20 £1,000 Transfer out Miss Bs account with another bank
12/10/20 £300 Cash withdrawal n/a
12/10/20 £181.35 Transfer in Person 7
There were also payments from Miss Bs other account at a different bank and same bank 
transfers between accounts held at the other bank which dont form part of this complaint. 
Miss B has explained that as time went on, she became concerned about the payments she 
was making but continued because Mr A told her shed lose all her funds if she didnt. She 
has also provided this service with a lot of messages she exchanged with Mr A.
Santander then blocked Miss Bs account on 16 October 2020. Miss B asked Mr A what to 
do and he told her to leave it and use her other account with another bank. Shortly 
afterwards the other bank also blocked Miss Bs account. Miss B says she had around 
£1,700 in her accounts at that bank which Mr A told her to withdraw but Miss B refused. She 
says Mr A stopped contacting her but when she pretended she would withdraw the funds to 
see if Mr A replied, he did. When Miss B went into a branch of the other bank and discussed 
what had happened, she realised she was the victim of a scam. 
Santander discussed the payments into the account with Miss B. She said a cousin had 
borrowed money and was paying it back when they could. She later explained that Mr A told 
her that if asked she should use cover stories involving family members. Santander decided 
to close Miss Bs account. It also applied a Cifas marker that it agreed to remove when Miss 
B explained what had actually happened and that she was the victim of a scam.
What Santander saysSantander reviewed its decision to close Miss Bs account and confirmed it had acted 
reasonably and in accordance with its terms and conditions. It didnt investigate a scam 
complaint until this service started its investigation. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who looked at Miss Bs complaint noted that the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM Code) applies to the payments Miss B 
made to third parties. But she felt Santander acted reasonably in not refunding the third-
party payments because Miss B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
making a legitimate investment or paying a legitimate investor. In summary, this was 
because the rate of return was unrealistic; the transfers, payments and receipts were 
suspicious; Miss B initially agreed to invest £100 and ended up paying significantly more; 
being asked to make transfers at night was unusual for a genuine investor; a genuine 
investor wouldnt ask Miss B to hand over her cards and PINs; Miss B knew she didnt need 
to pay money to release funds (something Mr A told her); Mr A was unable to provide proof 
of where funds came from when asked and when Miss Bs account was blocked Mr A told 
her not to sort it out but use another account with a different bank. 
The investigator considered whether it would have made a difference if Miss B was provided 
with a relevant investment warning and concluded it wouldnt. This was because Miss B had 
concerns herself but still made payments and because she followed Mr As instructions. 
The investigator went on to consider whether Santander could have prevented the payments 
from being made. She determined that from the second payment to a new payee on 4 
October 2020 the payments should have flagged and a discussion with Miss B would have 
caused Santander concern and led to it preventing further payments. But from this stage 
Miss B received more funds than she lost so hasnt suffered a loss.
Finally, the investigator said Santander acted reasonably in attempting to recover Miss Bs 
funds and in initially applying a Cifas marker before removing it once Miss B explained the 
scam. As the investigator felt Santander should also have removed a Hunter marker at the 
same time (and which Miss B was unaware of until her complaint was investigated by this 
service) the investigator awarded Miss B £150 compensation. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. In summary she said:
- She thought she was investing in a genuine investment through a genuine trader  
and would not have got involved if she didnt. She only had doubts later on in the 
scam. 
- She has traded before and knows its possible to make a good return in minutes. 
- When she became suspicious, she asked for her money back and only continued to 
make payments because she was under pressure and didnt want to lose the money 
shed already paid. 
- A warning would have made a difference. Miss B points out that when Santander told 
her funds she had received were fraudulent she stopped making payments. 
Santander accepted the investigators opinion and agreed to compensate Miss B.   
Santander is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
Santander says that it provided warnings to Miss B and that she didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making payments for a genuine investment. I am also mindful that when Miss B made these payments, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Santander should have reimbursed Miss B under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss B from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss B was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Miss B to receive a refund of the money she lost under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Miss B too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
- The customer has been grossly negligent. 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
Santander didnt identify a scam risk when Miss B made the payments I have set out and I 
consider it acted reasonably in not doing so. I also question whether it would have made a 
difference in the individual circumstances of this case if Santander had given an effective 
warning each time a payment was made. 
Miss B was asked to make multiple low value payments to a number of different payees over 
a period of twelve days. I dont think these payments were particularly remarkable so that 
they should have stood out to Santander. Im also mindful of the fact that Miss B did exactly 
what Mr A told her to as she says he told her shed lose everything if she didnt. For 
example, Miss B didnt take any action when Santander blocked her account because Mr A 
told her not to and to use her account at a different bank. So Im not persuaded that even if Miss B had been given effective warnings at the time she made each payment shed have 
acted any differently. 
I also dont believe the fact Miss B stopped making payments once shed been told she was 
receiving fraudulent funds shows an effective warning would have stopped her from making 
further payments. Miss B did as Mr A told her until the point when her account was blocked 
and she could no longer make payments so Im not persuaded shed have heeded any 
warnings given, even if I felt Santander should have provided them.  
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
B and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised are enough to 
support its position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code 
for the payment she made. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment was for a genuine service or that Mr A was a legitimate investor. Ill explain why. 
- Miss B didnt complete any checks before she first agreed to invest. She told the 
investigator who considered the complaint that shed invested before (Forex trading) 
so Id expect Miss B to have some understanding of the types of things to look out 
for. Whilst I can understand Miss B may have decided to take a risk when she made 
the initial investment of £100, I consider it reasonable to take some steps before 
investing more.
- Miss B said that initially Mr A said he was from a company and he referred to 
colleagues and being in meetings, so she thought this was the case. All the 
messages she received about the investment were from an individual (Mr A) and all 
the payments she made were to the accounts of various individuals. Miss B says she 
questioned why and was told she was paying the person who made the investment 
for her. Genuine investments are made through investment companies and 
payments are made to company bank accounts so I think Miss B should have been 
concerned about paying individuals and about the explanation she was given.  
- Miss B says she thought she was investing in stocks and shares but received no 
documentation about the proposed investment. I consider this to be unusual and 
another sign that the investment wasnt genuine. 
- Miss B has said that an investment of £100 would lead to a profit of £5,000 to £6,000. 
The timeframe isnt particularly clear, but Miss B has referred to getting funds back 
within a day, so I believe profits were expected in days and weeks rather than years. 
This is an exceptionally high rate of return which I dont consider to be realistic  and 
I think Miss B should reasonably have had concerns and asked Mr A more about the 
investment. Miss B says shed invested before and received good returns but the 
profits she received were nowhere near as high as Mr A was offering. 
- Miss B initially agreed to a one-off investment of £100 (from a bank account with a 
different bank). By the end of the next day she had transferred £2,201.05. I cant see 
that she has provided a plausible reason for continuing to make these payments. She 
has explained she needed to make further payments to create a transaction history 
but hasnt clarified why this was necessary. I accept that later on Miss B was 
concerned that shed lose everything shed already transferred but dont believe this 
was the case initially and dont consider she received a plausible reason for the need 
to create a transaction history. 
- Ive seen a large number of messages Miss B exchanged with Mr A. Miss B was 
asked to stay active, often late at night at times genuine companies wouldnt be 
operating (Be active 12am please). Miss B also made transfers on a Sunday. I dont 
believe legitimate companies/traders communicate at such times. I also consider the 
tone of the messages to be very informal and out of line with what Id expect from someone legitimately investing for a customer. For example, Mr A refers to Miss B as 
sister on a number of occasions (and Miss B calls him cuz). 
- Many of the messages involve Mr A asking Miss B to transfer funds and her agreeing 
to do so without questioning why. There is no indication in the messages that Miss B 
was under any form of pressure to make the payments. 
- Miss B says she gave her card and PIN to Mr A and the messages exchanged 
indicate Miss B gave a third party her card and asked Mr A when she would get it 
back. Whilst Miss B says she argued with Mr A about this, she hasnt given a 
plausible reason for giving Mr A her card and PIN, other than that it was the final 
stage in the process before she got her profits. Im not persuaded that a genuine 
investment manager would ever ask for these to be provided and believe this should 
have been a major cause for concern for Miss B. 
- Miss B hasnt provided a plausible explanation for why she received funds from 
multiple parties or moved these funds on to another account straight away. All she 
has said is that Mr A told her that others were doing the same. I dont consider a 
genuine investment would involve receiving funds from unknown third parties and 
immediately passing them on to other unknown third parties.   
- When Miss B made all the transfers, she said they were to friends and family. Shes 
also told this service that Mr A told her to use family, and particularly cousins, if 
asked. I dont consider a legitimate investment manager would ask someone to use 
an incorrect payment reason and believe this is aspect that should have concerned 
Miss B. 
- Miss B says she became concerned about later transactions and even argued with 
Mr A. She continued to make payments though because she was told shed lose 
everything if she didnt. I dont believe a legitimate investment manager would 
conduct business in this manner. 
Given everything Ive said I consider Miss B should fairly and reasonably have completed 
some checks before making the payments to Mr A and that overall, she hasnt met the 
required level of care to be reimbursed under the CRM Code.
Should Santander have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss B? 
Im also mindful that when Miss B made these payments, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss B made were unusual or suspicious. 
The payments Miss B asked Santander to make in the first days of the scam seem to have 
been in line with what Santander might reasonably have considered the normal operation of 
her account. I dont consider these were payments that should have particularly stood out to 
Santander as being unusual or indicative of possible fraud. They were low in value, to a 
number of payees and made over a few days. In such circumstances, I find Santander was 
obliged to make the payments in accordance with Miss Bs instructions and I do not find it at 
fault for having done so. 
As Miss B continued to make payments its possible Santander should have asked her some 
questions about them. Its hard to say what Miss B would have said if Santander had asked 
questions, as she was told to say she was paying family members and stuck to this cover 
story when Santander spoke to her about her use of the account. 
But even if some later payments had been prevented, I cant reasonably make an award to 
Miss B. This is because I consider that any award made to Miss B should be reduced by 
50% to reflect the fact Miss B contributed to her own loss, and the amount she received from 
third parties during the scam exceeds half of her loss. Ill explain why I consider any award to Miss B should be reduced by 50 per cent. I have set 
out above why I dont consider Miss B had a reasonable basis for believing Mr A was a 
legitimate investment manager or she was making a legitimate investment. For many of the 
same reasons, I consider Miss B has not taken the care Id expect a reasonable person to 
take. For example, she didnt complete any checks in respect of Mr A or the company he 
said he represented, she made payments to multiple payees with no reasonable explanation 
as to why she did so and also received multiple payments, she made numerous transfers to 
another account at another bank without a plausible reason for doing so, and followed 
instructions to transfer funds well outside of normal business hours. So, the most I consider 
Santander could be responsible for is half Miss Bs losses. 
Miss B received over £4,000 from third parties as part of the scam and half of her losses 
(from a point when Santander might reasonably have intervened) are well below this figure, 
so she hasnt suffered a loss. So, even if I consider Santander should have asked Miss B 
some questions as payments continued, and Miss B had told the truth about why she was 
making them, or Santander decided it wouldnt make further transfers, Miss B hasnt suffered 
a loss.
Recovery action
The first scam transaction was on 1 October 2020, but Miss B didnt report that she was a 
victim of a scam to Santander. It was only when Santander decided to withdraw banking 
facilities that Miss B said she was the victim of a scam. In its final response letter in 
November 2020 Santander asked Miss B to report the relevant transactions to it by calling a 
given number, but it was only when this service started to investigate in February 2021 that 
Miss B identified the transactions. That long after the transactions were made, I consider it 
very unlikely that any of Miss Bs funds remained in the recipients accounts. This is 
particularly so given that Miss B was told to move funds that were credited to her Santander 
account immediately, so it is likely that other parties were asked to do the same thing. 
CIFAS and Hunter markers
Miss B says shes been unable to open a bank account after Santander closed her account. 
I consider Santander acted reasonably in applying a Cifas marker as Miss B received and 
passed on fraudulent funds in to her Santander account and wasnt able to prove she was 
entitled to the funds. When Miss B explained the circumstances of the scam Santander 
agreed to remove the Cifas marker and I consider that Santander acted reasonably in doing 
so. 
During the investigators review it emerged that Santander also added a Hunter marker that 
wasnt removed at the same time as the Cifas marker. I consider that it should have been 
removed at the same time as the Cifas marker and that Santanders failure to do so has 
caused Miss B inconvenience. She has told this service that even after the Cifas marker was 
removed she was unable to open a bank account even though her credit file was clear. I 
agree with the investigator that an award of £150 is reasonable to compensate Miss B for 
the unnecessary inconvenience she suffered. 
Overall
Overall, I think Miss B made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payments were legitimate.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above Santander UK plc should pay £150 compensation to 
Miss B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman