DRN-1244723
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS). 
What happened 
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 2003. At the same time they took out a 
PPI policy in Mr Ms sole name to protect their repayments if Mr M lost his job or was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They say they were told they needed PPI to get the mortgage and 
didnt need the additional expense. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The sale took place over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr 
and Mrs M havent provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable 
considering the amount of time that has passed. And besides the mortgage declaration form 
BOS havent given us any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know 
exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented.
But I have seen screen shots that recorded the answers about Mr Ms personal 
circumstances in relation to PPI. So I think PPI was discussed and from what I know about 
BOSs sales documentation and processes at the time, I think its likely that it wouldve made 
Mr and Mrs M aware that PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs M had PPI because they 
freely chose to take it rather than anything else.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent given a choice or that they didnt agree to buy 
it.I can see from BOSs internal records that the policy was sold during a meeting at a branch. 
So to put Mr and Mrs M in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if BOS advised 
them to take the policy. What this means is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs M could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M for the following reasons:
From what we know of the policies sold he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt 
look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he had no other means of making his mortgage 
repayments if he couldnt work and that he was the sole income earner. The policy 
wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payments for up 24 months per claim if 
Mr M was too sick to work or lost his job.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs M in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs M at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether BOS gave Mr and Mrs M information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs M has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper information.
So this means Mr and Mrs M arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman