DRN-2859073
The complaint
Mr M complains that EUI Limited trading as Elephant settled a claim against Mr Ms motor 
insurance policy as a fault claim and he believes it shouldnt have.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I will explain why.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling that he was not to blame for the accident, and feel it 
might be helpful to explain here, that my role is not to decide who is liable for the claim. But 
to decide if Elephant treated Mr M fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions when 
it dealt with the claim and decided to accept liability.
In doing so, I note the policy, like every other motor insurance policy Ive seen, allows 
Elephant to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. But it must be fair 
to Mr M if it does decide to settle the claim, by this I mean it should only do so when its more 
likely than not the claim against Mr M wouldnt succeed in court. This is reasonable because 
Elephant wouldnt want to risk all the costs and expenses in defending a claim that theyre 
likely to lose in court.
Before accepting liability, Elephant considered Mr Ms version of events when he contacted it 
to report the incident. Having listened to that call, I am satisfied, Mr Ms recollection of events 
highlights he hit the back of the third-party vehicle (while I appreciate Mr M has said the 
third-party drivers brake lights didnt show). Elephant went on to explain, that while this may 
be the case, there should have been adequate braking distance between the two vehicles.
I am satisfied Elephant enquired as to whether there was any CCTV footage of the incident 
and asked if there was any independent witness statements. As there no CCTV footage, and 
the witness statement wasnt independent (as they were a party to the accident too), 
Elephant had to make a decision based on Mr Ms recollection of events. Therefore, as Mr M 
had hit the vehicle in front, Elephant said, he had a greater duty of care. Based on all the 
information available to it, Elephant, thought it should settle the claim as it didnt believe it 
had enough evidence to defend it.
I can see how frustrating this has been for Mr M, but I dont think there is anything else 
Elephant couldve reasonably done to defend the claim. Im satisfied that it fully considered 
the available evidence before accepting liability and based on this I think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to settle the claim as a fault. So, I wont be asking Elephant to do anything 
differently. 
Mr M is also unhappy that he has been unable to claim for the injuries he sustained. 
Elephant said Mr M would not be able to claim for injury through his insurance given the 
incident has been recorded as a fault claim. And I agree that this is a fair and reasonable 
outcome as the cause of injury Mr M is liable for, as such there is no other party to recover 
costs from, so I dont think Elephant has acted unfairly in reaching that outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman