DRN-3947128
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to treat her fairly when it advised her in 
September 1992 to start paying free standing additional voluntary contributions to 
supplement her pension savings.
What happened
Ms M received advice from Black Horse Life. That firm forms part of Lloyds, so it is Lloyds 
that is responsible for dealing with her complaint. Throughout this decision, for ease, I will 
simply refer to the business as Lloyds. Ms M has been assisted in making her complaint by a 
claims management company (CMC). In this decision, again for ease, I will refer to all 
communication as if it has been with, and from, Ms M herself.
The meeting that has led to this complaint was attended by both Ms M and her husband. 
The recommendations Lloyds gave also applied to both parties. But this complaint only 
relates to Ms M. So I wont be dealing with, or making any further reference to, the advice 
given to Ms Ms husband.
Ms M was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1992 she met with 
Lloyds to discuss her pension arrangements. In that meeting she was advised to start paying 
free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a new pension plan sold by 
Lloyds. Ms M accepted that recommendation and agreed to make net monthly contributions 
of £40.
In 1997 Ms M had a further meeting with Lloyds. Following that meeting she agreed to 
increase her FSAVC payments by an additional £30 per month. I am dealing separately with 
a complaint about that sale, however as I will go on to explain later in this decision, what 
happened at that time does have a strong influence on my findings on this complaint.
Ms Ms complaint about the advice given in 1992 has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. He said that there was no evidence that Lloyds had met its regulatory 
responsibilities during the sale in 1992. But he said that he found that the meeting five years 
later had met the regulations at that time  that were more onerous than those in 1992. So 
since Ms M continued at that time to make FSAVC payments, he thought it likely that she 
would have made the same decision in 1992, even if Lloyds had provided all the information 
it should have. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms M and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advice that forms that basis of this complaint was provided to Ms M more than thirty 
years ago. So it isnt entirely surprising that much of the documentation from the time is no 
longer available. I dont draw any adverse conclusions regarding the unavailability of that 
information. But it does leave me unable to reasonably conclude that Lloyds did all it should 
have when it gave its advice to Ms M.
The advisor that met with Ms M was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Lloyds. They couldnt actively recommend any 
other products from any other product providers including the in-house options (AVCs or 
added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time 
- LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code 
said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the 
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most 
likely be available to consumers like Ms M. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic benefits of the in-house options, 
including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option.
As Ive explained earlier, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Lloyds met 
these regulatory responsibilities when providing its advice to Ms M. But that in itself doesnt 
mean that that complaint should be upheld. Id also need to be persuaded that, if Lloyds had 
given all the information it should have to Ms M, shed have made a different decision.Ive looked carefully at the information that was given to Ms M in 1997. I will deal with that 
information more thoroughly in my decision on that complaint. But, the information from the 
time does show that;
Ms M had been made aware of (or reviewed for herself) the in-house scheme.
Ms M had been given a copy of a leaflet that explained the differences between AVC 
and FSAVC plans, and in particular that the charges on an AVC plan were likely to 
be cheaper.
Before accepting the recommendation Ms M had discussed her situation with a 
pension advisor from her union.
I am satisfied that, had the above steps been taken at the time of the original advice, Lloyds 
would have complied with the relevant regulations I have set out above. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Ms Ms circumstances had significantly changed between 
1992 and 1997. So, since when she was given the compliant information in 1997 Ms M 
decided to continue with (and in fact increase her contributions to) the FSAVC plan, I have 
no reason to doubt that she would have found the FSAVC plan attractive in 1992 had she 
been given the same information at that time.
So whilst Lloyds cannot show that it complied with the relevant regulations when it advised 
Ms M in 1992, I dont think any potential failures in the information she was given caused her 
to make a different decision.
The advice that Lloyds gave to Ms M, to make additional pension contributions, appears to 
have been suitable for her circumstances. She appears to have been able to afford the 
contributions she was advised to make. And I havent seen anything to make me think that 
either the FSAVC plan, or the investments that were made with Ms Ms contributions, were 
unsuitable. Lloyds was not able to advise Ms M to make payments to the OPS AVC scheme 
instead, even if those might have been more suitable for her circumstances given the likely 
lower charges.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman