DRN-4308549
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly placed a 
marker on his credit file after he missed a monthly instalment towards his car insurance 
premium. 
What happened
Mr P says, on 1 April 2023, a direct debit payment of £45.72 didnt go through as a monthly 
instalment towards his premium. Admiral then wrote to Mr P on 5 April and said they would 
reapply for this payment in 10 days and asked Mr P to ensure funds are available for this to 
be paid. Admiral explained any late or missed payments are a breach of the credit 
agreement and a formal Default Notice would be issued. Mr P says he was on holiday when 
the payment was originally due but then paid this amount as soon as he became aware on 5 
April. Mr P complained and said its unfair Admiral will be placing a Default Notice on his 
credit file. 
Admiral responded and explained they have an agreement with a credit reference agency 
(CRA) to provide information, which includes if a customer has missed a payment. Admiral 
explained they hadnt made any errors and wont be removing the marker from Mr Ps credit 
file.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She thought Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in 
making a report to the CRA. Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Mr P says its unfair Admiral will be placing a Default Notice on his credit 
file given that he made the payment four days after it was due. He also says its unfair 
because the wording in his credit agreement says Admiral may report defaults, not that they 
always will. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps concern about the Default Notice, but I havent seen any evidence this 
has been recorded against his credit file. The letter sent on 5 April says, Any late or missed 
payment is a breach of your credit agreement and a formal Default notice will be issued on 
08/04/2023 Theres no dispute Mr P made payment on 5 April  which is before the date 
Admiral say they will be issuing a Default Notice. I can see our investigator has asked Mr P 
to provide evidence of his credit file to demonstrate whether this has been recorded on 
there. But Mr P hasnt provided evidence of this. Any Default Notice would also have been 
issued to Mr P. So, given that Ive seen no evidence he has received this, together with the 
fact payment was made before the date Admiral say this will be issued, Im not persuaded a 
Default Notice has been recorded against Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P says the letter he received dated 5 April says the issuing of a Default Notice doesnt 
affect Admiral from reapplying for payment, so this will be issued on 8 April. I acknowledge 
the letter says, Please note issuing of a default notice does not affect us reapplying for your 
missed payment. But I dont believe this proves Admiral have recorded this against Mr Ps 
credit file. In the letter, Admiral say they will reapply for the missed payment in 10 days. As 
this date falls after the date they intend to issue the Default Notice, I think what Admiral are 
suggesting here is that, if payment isnt made by 8 April  and Admiral then issue a Default 
Notice  then theyll still reapply for the missed payment on 15 April. A Default Notice is 
notification from a lender to their customer when theyre in arrears and sets out steps a 
lender may take if payments arent brought up to date. In this case, I see no reason why 
Admiral would send this on 8 April when, by that point, Mr Ps account was brought up to 
date. 
Admiral do refer to a marker being placed on Mr Ps credit file, but this appears to relate to 
the missed payment. I understand Mr P is concerned he made the payment only four days 
after it became due, so Ive thought about whether its fair for Admiral to have reported this. 
My starting point is Mr Ps car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, When you borrow from us, we will give details of your account(s) and 
how you manage it/them to CRAs. If you borrow and do not repay in full and on time, CRAs 
will record the outstanding debt. Theres no dispute about the payment being missed. So, 
given that the terms and conditions allow Admiral to report this to the CRAs, I dont think 
theyve acted unreasonably. I think its also important to add, under guidance issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office, lenders need to ensure any information they report on a 
credit file is accurate. In this case, as there was a missed payment, I cant say Admirals 
report was inaccurate or unfair. 
I understand Mr P feels the information about when Admiral will apply a default is 
ambiguous. He says the information he received from Admiral says they may report 
defaults with CRAs, but he says this is inconsistent with the approach taken by Admiral here 
when they say they will apply a default. As mentioned above, I havent seen any evidence 
Admiral did issue a Default Notice and of this being recorded on Mr Ps credit file. Ive seen 
the credit agreement, and this says, Missing payment could have severe consequences 
such asWe may report your defaults with [CRAs] I note Mr P says the use of the term 
may isnt definitive and is inaccurate and misleading because, in their correspondence with 
him, Admiral say they will report defaults. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps concern, but I dont agree the wording is ambiguous. Use of the term 
may isnt unusual or uncommon in terms and conditions. The wording suggests this is an 
option available to Admiral. There might well be circumstances where, following a missed 
payment, Admiral may not report a default to the CRAs. What we would expect though is for 
a business to make it clear in direct communication with a customer, whether that specific 
term will apply to them. And in this case, Admiral have made it clear what would happen on 
8 April. So, I cant say Admiral have acted unfairly here.   
I understand why Mr P has complained, but Im not persuaded a Default Notice has been 
issued here or recorded on his credit file. I think a missed payment marker has likely been 
recorded, which I dont think is unfair in the circumstances. I wish to reassure Mr P Ive read 
and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman