DRN-2943646
The complaint
Ms G complains that Nationwide Building Society has lost funds held in a savings account. 
What happened
Ms G has told us she wanted to close her savings account in June 2013 so visited a 
Nationwide branch with identification. But Ms G says she was turned away and told to 
contact Nationwides head office instead. When Ms G did that, she was referred back to the 
branch. Ms G has explained that she then took the decision to leave her funds in the 
Nationwide savings account. 
Ms G says in 2019 she tried to register for online banking to access her money but was 
unsuccessful. Earlier this year, Ms G contacted Nationwide and was told it had no record of 
the open savings account in her name. Ms G complained and said she hadnt withdrawn her 
money or closed her account. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint and said that due to the passage of time, it has 
limited information and records available to show what happened to her account. But 
Nationwide said Ms Gs account was closed in July 2013 by her local branch and that funds 
wouldve been provided to her. 
Ms G referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Ms Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Ms Gs representative asked to appeal and said she tried to withdraw funds in branch, 
with the relevant identification, but was turned away. They also said Ms G thought 
Nationwide should be able to provide evidence of what happened to her money. As Ms G 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred 
having taken all the available information and evidence into account. In this case, Ms G says 
after Nationwide failed to approve her withdrawal she decided not to take her money and left 
in in the account. Nationwide says that the records available show the account was closed in 
July 2013 by Ms Gs local branch but that, due to the amount of time thats passed, it doesnt 
have a direct record of how the funds were paid to Ms G. 
I dont doubt Ms Gs sincerity but as an impartial party, I have to take what information there 
is available into account. And whilst there isnt a copy of Ms Gs signature of the specific 
authority she provided to close the account, there is clear systems information available. It 
shows that Ms Gs account was closed in July 2013 at her local branch. I can see interest 
was calculated and applied to the date of closure. Had Ms Gs account remained open 
beyond that date, I think it wouldve remained so on Nationwides systems and interest 
would continue to have accrued. 
I understand Ms G feels Nationwide should have more records available. But Nationwide 
has explained it cant retain information indefinitely. Nationwide says it retains information 
from closed accounts for six years. That means the relevant information was likely deleted in 
2019, six years after the account was closed. Unfortunately, that means Nationwide cant 
provide a copy of the specific instruction and authority to close Ms Gs account. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied on balance the systems information that is still available shows Ms Gs 
account was most likely closed in July 2013 as claimed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms G as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied that, on balance, her savings account was most likely closed in branch in July 2013 
as Nationwide claims and the funds provided to her. As I havent found Nationwide has 
incorrectly told Ms G her account was closed and Im satisfied it dealt with her complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman