DRN-3467352
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim he made on his 
household insurance for storm damage.
What happened
Mr D contacted Ageas on 26 November 2021 to make a claim on his household insurance. 
The render on the outside of his property had fallen from the walls following a period of bad 
weather.  Ageas arranged for a loss adjuster to visit Mr Ds property on 1 December 2021.
 
Mr D called Ageas on 23 December 2021 and complained. He said that the loss adjuster 
had visited three weeks ago and hed not head anything back about his claim. He said the 
loss the adjuster had arrived with no card or reference and he wasnt happy that Ageas 
didnt get in touch with him to tell him the outcome of his claim.
The call handler explained that the loss adjusters report said Mr D had been told on site that 
his claim would be declined, which is why no-one had got in touch.  Mr D said hed have 
liked the outcome of his claim in writing.
 
The call handler explained Ageas wouldnt cover the claim because the damage was caused 
by wear and tear. Mr D disputed this. He said the render hadnt shown signs of damage 
before the storm and said there were houses nearby that had also been damaged by the 
bad weather. The call handler said that the render shouldnt have come down in the wind, so 
the damage would be down to wear and tear. Mr D said the weather conditions at the time of 
the damage had been the worst wind and rain hed seen.
Ageas final response letter (FRL) to Mr Ds explained that the conditions Mr D had 
experienced didnt meet his policys definition of a storm, because thered been winds of 51 
mph and not 55mph. But that despite this, and because of the bad weather across the 
country at that time, Ageas instructed an assessor to inspect the damage Mr D had reported.  
It said that the render had been damaged by wear and tear  which was excluded from 
cover - and that the high winds had highlighted this issue. Ageas said that the loss adjuster 
had made Mr D aware during the visit that his claim would be declined, so it didnt feel 
thered been any service issues with the handling of Mr Ds claim.
Mr D was unhappy with this response. He said that the building was in a good state of repair 
with no signs of deterioration on the render before the storm. He said the force of the winds 
against his home had made the render come away from the walls. And he asked Ageas to 
provide evidence that his home wasnt in a good state of repair. He said hed have expected 
better correspondence about his claim.
Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said thered been storm conditions just 
before Mr D made his claim. But that Ageas hadnt unfairly rejected Mr Ds complaint 
because render in good condition should be able to withstand strong winds. She said the 
storm had only highlighted an existing, gradually occurring problem and the only expert 
evidence shed seen said that the storm was not the main cause of the damage.
 
Our investigator said she didnt think thered been any service issues during Ageas handling 
of Mr Ds claim because Ageas had told Mr D - when he called to register the claim - that it 
would appoint a third-party to inspect the damage. And that it was clear from the loss 
adjusters report and Ageas systems notes that Mr D had been told during the visit that his 
claim would be declined.
Mr D didnt provide any comment or response about our investigators view on the service 
issues hed complained about. But he disagreed with our investigators view about the 
decision to decline his claim and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  Our investigator 
explained to Mr D that he should consider obtaining his own experts report into the cause of 
the damage, because otherwise itd be difficult to disregard Ageas conclusions about the 
cause. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D hasnt provided any comment in response to our investigators view of the issues hed 
raised about the service provided by Ageas. So it remains for me to decide whether Ageas 
was acting fairly and reasonably when it declined Mr Ds claim. 
When this service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we consider 
whether there were storm conditions on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened. We also consider whether the damage claimed for is consistent with damage 
typically caused by a storm and if so, whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage rather than something else that isnt covered by the terms of the consumers 
policy. 
Mr D said that the storm conditions were the worst hed ever seen. But Ageas didnt decline 
Mr Ds claim on the grounds that there was no storm. 
Ageas loss adjuster inspected the damage said that the renders bond to the property had 
failed and that the remaining render was also showing signs of failure. The loss adjuster said 
that the damage was not storm-related but that it would appear the high winds have 
highlighted the defect of the property". So Ageas declined Mr Ds claim because it didnt 
think the storm was the main cause of the render falling from the walls and because of wear 
and tear concerns.
Ageas conclusion that the main cause of the damage wasnt the storm was reached by one 
of its experts. So for me to be able to say - on balance - that Ageas expert is wrong, Id need 
to see a report from another expert saying that the main cause of the damage was the storm 
and not wear and tear. 
 
Our investigator invited Mr D to provide his own experts report into the cause of the 
damage, but Mr D hasnt provided any such report. 
So because the only experts report Ive seen about the cause of the damage says that the 
render was already damaged and suffering from wear and tear before the storm, its difficult 
for me to say that Ageass experts conclusions were wrong. And that the main cause of the 
damage was the storm. And because loss or damage arising from wear and tear is excluded from Mr Ds cover, it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Ageas to pay Mr Ds claim for storm damage.
 
So Ill not be upholding Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman