DRN-2901410
The complaint
Mr P complains as a director of K, a limited company, that Society of Lloyd's didnt provide 
cover for a claim on Ks legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Society of Lloyds, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
On 27 November 2020, K made a claim on its legal expenses insurance in relation to a claim 
brought against it for a debt.
On 1 December 2020, Society of Lloyds asked for more information about the legal claim. 
Society of Lloyds then advised K it would provisionally confirm cover, subject to the claim 
being assessed to confirm that the chance of success was above 51% (as required by the 
policy terms) and passed the papers to a firm of solicitors to review. 
K had been served with court papers and had a short time to reply. The solicitors said they 
wouldnt be able to assess the case before the deadline. Society of Lloyds passed the claim 
to a second firm of solicitors. On 10 December 2020, it told K the second firm was also 
unable to assess prospects and support K within the short timeframe available.
Society of Lloyds advised K to protect its position by calling the free 24-hour legal advice 
helpline provided with the policy or to instruct solicitors on a private-paying basis until the 
claim had been assessed, at which point it would reconsider the matter.
Mr P was unhappy and lodged a complaint on behalf of K but Society of Lloyds didnt 
change its position. It said K had delayed submitting the claim and it hadnt been possible to 
complete the assessment by the deadline.
K then referred the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. The investigator said that for cover to be provided, the claim had to be 
notified as soon as the insured first became aware of circumstances which could lead to a 
claim, and the claim must have reasonable prospects of success. She said K had delayed 
notifying the claim and this meant it hadnt been possible to assess it within the short 
timescale available. Mr P disagreed and, on behalf of K, has requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer should deal with claims promptly and fairly and should not unreasonably reject a 
claim. 
The policy terms say:
if an insured needs to make a claim they must notify Society of Lloyds as soon as 
possible; 
a claim should be notified by submitting a claim form with supporting documents; and
the insured must co-operate fully, give the appointed adviser any instructions 
required, keep them updated with progress of the claim and not hinder them.
The terms also say a claim must have prospects of success, which means it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. A term like this is common in legal 
expenses policies. It means insurers dont have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to 
be successful. Id expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has 
reasonable prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously 
wrong. 
K was aware of the dispute with the other party in September 2020 and received a letter 
threatening legal action in October but didnt notify Society of Lloyds of the claim until late 
November, after receiving court papers. Im satisfied K didnt notify the claim as soon as 
reasonably possible. But that doesnt necessarily mean cover wouldnt be provided, if the 
late notification didnt prevent Society of Lloyds from dealing with the claim. So Ive 
considered the impact of that delay.
Society of Lloyds confirmed it would provide cover subject to a legal assessment that the 
claim had reasonable prospects of success. It referred the claim to solicitors promptly but 
they werent able to deal with it within the very short time available. So Society of Lloyds 
tried a second firm of solicitors. It dealt with all of this promptly and there was no delay by 
Society of Lloyds. Neither firm of solicitors was able to deal with the assessment in the time 
required. And the second firm advised that Mr P wasnt prepared to accept its timescale for 
reviewing the case, or to accept their terms of business, and they couldnt act for him on that 
basis. 
K wasnt entitled to cover until Society of Lloyds was satisfied the claim was likely to 
succeed. There was no delay by Society of Lloyds and, if the claim had been notified earlier, 
its likely it would have been assessed in time for the court deadline. Society of Lloyds 
confirmed it would review matters if a prospects assessment showed the claim was likely to 
succeed and advised K on how to protect its position in the meantime. In the circumstances, 
the way Society of Lloyds dealt with the claim was fair and in line with the policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman