DRN-1204971
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc has applied unfair charges and interest to his 
account. 
What happened
Mr N has said that he is unhappy with the charges he incurred over the last six years due to 
him having an overdraft facility in place. He says Lloyds should have never authorised the 
overdraft and the charges he has received have been excessive.
He says the continuous charges has caused him distress, and he is experiencing financial 
hardship. So, he wants the charges and interest to be refunded and for Lloyds to apologise 
for the distress it has caused. Mr N raised a complaint with Lloyds. Lloyds looked into the 
complaint, but it felt that the charges had been applied fairly. Mr N remained unhappy, so he 
brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint, but he didn't recommend that it be upheld. To 
summarise he said Mr N had applied for an overdraft online and these are assessed by 
authorised credit decision systems. As a result, they were not subject to manual checks. 
He also said that he wasnt able to challenge Lloyds on the fairness of applying charges as it 
had acted inline with the terms and conditions of the account. As Mr N hadnt told Lloyds he 
was experiencing financial hardship, he couldnt have expected it to have acted positively or 
sympathetically to his circumstances. 
Mr N remined unhappy. He said, there were occasions where he had made a request online 
for his overdraft facility to be increased and it was declined. So he had to get it authorised by 
telephone. And he said his circumstances (request for short term loans) evidence he was in 
financial hardship. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had an opportunity to investigate this 
point. And so he said Mr N would need to raise that with it. Because Mr N disagreed with the 
investigators findings, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
I am sorry to hear the difficulties Mr N has had. And having reviewed a large range of 
statements, I can see that Mr N has made use of his overdraft facility and rarely exceeded 
the arranged limit. And due to his frequent use of the overdraft facility, I am conscience of 
the amount of money he has been charged in fees and charges. But as Mr N is aware, the 
Supreme Court considered current account charges. In November 2009 it made it clear bank 
charges couldnt be challenged on the basis that they were too high or unfair. So, Lloyds 
was entitled to apply charges as long as they were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And I am satisfied, in this case they were.Mr N has said he doesnt think Lloyds should have approved his request for an overdraft 
facility. And as there were several requests from him to increase his overdraft limit, he feels 
this demonstrate he was in financial hardship. But having looked at Mr Ns statements, I can 
see that there were several requests to increase his overdraft but there were also times 
when it reduced. I have looked at the day to day expenditure and how Mr N operated the 
account and I can see  there were several occasions when he didnt make use of the facility 
and operated the account in line with the terms and conditions. So, I dont think it is fair to 
say that Lloyds should have been aware he was in financial hardship based on his requests 
to increase his overdraft limit.
Lastly, I cant see any evidence to suggest Mr N had told Lloyds he was experiencing 
financial hardship. And having reviewed his statements I cant see any evidence to suggest 
Lloyds should have been aware of this. I appreciate that Mr N feels that Lloyds should never 
have authorised his request for an overdraft. But Most of Mr Ns requests were done online. 
As i have already explained these checks would be subject to automated credit decisioning 
systems. This will take into account information held on Mr Ns account history and data from 
credit reference agencies. As Mr N was operating his account in line with the terms and 
conditions and regular income was entering the account along with credit checks being 
passed, I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
So with this in mind, although it will be disappointing for Mr N, I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman