DRN-2399393
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a critical illness 
policy. Miss M says she wasnt aware of the policy and didnt want it because she had cover 
with her employer. So, she would like Halifax to refund her premiums. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the cover couldve 
been useful to Miss M, she wasnt told she had to have it and it was also clear the cover had 
been discussed and agreed at the point of sale. 
Miss M didnt accept what our investigator said and has asked for an Ombudsman review. 
She said she told the advisor at the time she didnt want the critical illness policy and that 
she felt it wasnt optional. She added the policy wasnt necessary because of the sick pay 
provided by her employer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Miss M feels strongly about this complaint, so Im sure my decision 
will come as a disappointment to her. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Miss M believes the critical illness cover wasnt optional and she wasnt aware it had been 
added to her mortgage. Halifax has provided evidence which shows a discussion took place 
at the point of sale about a critical illness policy, and mortgage repayment protection was 
also discussed. Miss M rejected the mortgage repayment protection because of her 
employer benefits. I think this shows that Miss M did have the option to decline any cover 
that was recommended at the point of sale. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence 
which shows me this policy wasnt optional. 
Halifax has also provided copies of Miss M signing and agreeing to the critical illness cover 
and has copies of the documentation being sent to Miss Ms address explaining how much 
the cover cost and how it worked. If Miss M didnt want the policy and wasnt aware it had 
been added to the mortgage, she had an opportunity to review this information and to 
contact Halifax. 
So, I dont believe I can reasonably conclude that the policy wasnt optional or that Miss M 
wasnt aware it had been added to her mortgage at the point of sale. 
Ive considered whether the policy was appropriate for Miss M given her circumstances at 
the time of the sale. Having done so, I dont think it was unreasonable to provide critical 
illness cover with a sum assured matching the balance of the mortgage. This is one of the 
areas of cover that Miss M didnt have through her employer at the time of the sale. And its 
worth mentioning here that sick pay through an employer isnt the same as critical illness 
cover. Critical illness will pay out a lump sum in the event of a serious illness with the money 
helping to pay off a mortgage and/or provide the appropriate care based upon the diagnosed 
illness. And as Miss M was taking out a mortgage with a term of forty years, I dont think it 
was unreasonable to provide protection for critical illness over this period. 
So, Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman