DRN-3650994
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement payment Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) offered him following his claim for the theft of his car, under his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen. He contacted Admiral to make a claim. It arranged for a valuation of 
his car, which he wasnt satisfied with. He says this wasnt reflective of its market value and 
he couldnt buy a similar replacement for the amount offered. 
Admiral arranged for a further valuation using an independent engineer and based on a 
slightly lower mileage. This resulted in a higher valuation of £8,260.36, which after Mr Gs 
£150 policy excess meant a net settlement figure of £8,110.36. Admiral agreed to pay 
interest on the settlement amount for the delay in providing payment. 
Mr G refers to one motor trade guide that provided a higher valuation for his car closer to 
£9,000. Because of this he didnt think Admirals offer was fair and so referred his complaint 
to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says having checked the 
motor trade guides Admirals settlement offer fell within the range of values obtained for his 
car, which he thought was fair.    
Mr G didnt agree. He says the point of insurance is to put him back in the position he was in 
before his car was stolen. He says the trade guides dont take into consideration the options 
on vehicles and that Admiral has gone with the lowest valuation. Mr G says he cant buy a 
similar car for the money he was offered. He also says he bought his car from a main dealer 
and believes a like-for-like replacement should also come from a main dealer, which costs 
more. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr Gs car was stolen, and I can understand he wants to get the best possible 
settlement offer from Admiral so he can buy a like-for-like replacement. Ive looked at the 
policy terms to understand what Admiral is expected to pay in these circumstances. 
Although I note Mr Gs comments, his policy provides the market value in the case of a total 
loss of the vehicle. The terms, under section two say:
What we will pay
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
The terms define market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our Investigator explained the approach we apply to car valuations. We dont provide
a valuation but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. To assess whether a 
reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. These 
guides are used by the industry for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to 
be persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations.
Mr G has provided a valuation from one trade guide that shows a higher value than Admiral 
offered. We dont tend to use this guide as it shows live market values not the value at the 
date the loss occurred. Mr G is also concerned that the valuations Admiral used didnt 
include the options specific to his car. This includes, metallic paint, satellite navigation, 
parking sensors, and keyless entry.
Our investigator thought the valuation Admiral proposed was fair, based on the range of 
values he obtained from the trade guides. Ive checked to see what information was used. I 
can see that he included the optional extras Mr G has mentioned together with the make, 
model, age, and mileage of his car. I can also that he looked at the retail transacted 
valuations, not the trade prices, which is what Id expect. 
The values we obtained from the trade guides were £8,175, £8,200, and £8,695. Aviva 
offered £8,260.36 less Mr Gs policy excess. The average of our valuations is slightly more 
than Admiral offered. But its offer falls within this range of values and Im mindful that valuing 
second-hand cars isnt an exact science. So, I cant say Avivas offer was unfair. 
In summary, having considered all of this, I think Admiral treated Mr G fairly in offering a 
settlement payment based on the industry trade guides. Because of this I wont require it to 
pay a higher amount to Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman