DRN-3503451
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service received from National House-Building Councils (NHBC) 
after he made a claim made under his building warranty.
What happened
Mr F purchased a new home in 2014 which came with a ten-year NHBC building warranty. 
There were around 40 issues with Mr Fs home identified so he reported them first to the 
builder, and to NHBC in 2016. Following the reporting of the issues to NHBC, they carried 
out a resolution inspection, and accepted some of the issues as valid. NHBC told the builder 
to carry out works. This complaint relates to the external mortar and pointing issues at Mr Fs 
home.
The builder started works to the mortar as directed by NHBC but didnt finish them. NHBC 
carried out an updated resolution report commenting on the original report and confirming 
which works from this hadnt been completed. NHBC ultimately took over the claim from the 
builder and completed some of the works that had been noted in the resolution reports. 
Mr F feels more extensive works to the mortar should be completed, and he says some of 
the areas and wider issues pointed out were missed by NHBC on the previous resolution 
inspections and reports. NHBC said they would consider these other areas as a new claim 
and under a different section of Mr Fs policy, section three.
Mr F is unhappy with this. He believes NHBC failed to comment on all the issues he reported 
when they carried out resolution inspections and reports. And he thinks the remaining mortar 
should be considered as part of the original section two claim. He is also unhappy with the 
overall claim handling by NHBC. So, he approached this service.
Our investigator considered things. He said that he wasnt able to comment on the original 
resolution inspections completed by NHBC or the content of the reports specifically, 
including what NHBC noted (or didnt include). He said this was outside the jurisdiction of 
this service because it related to mediation, rather than a regulated activity. 
However, our investigator said there were parts of the complaint which he could consider 
and were within our jurisdiction. For those, he said that NHBC said it would carry out any 
works noted in the resolution report specifically that hadnt been completed by the builder 
and that was fair. He also said NHBC had agreed to consider any mortar issues not 
specifically outlined in the resolution reports under section three of Mr Fs policy, and he said 
that was reasonable.
Our investigator said that NHBC had paid compensation for delays and the service Mr F had 
received overall, and that was fair in the circumstances. So, he didnt recommend anything 
further. 
Mr F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only in relation to the complaint points that are in my jurisdiction to consider. 
This is the repairs taken over by NHBC from the builder after they failed to complete works 
as directed in the resolution reports, NHBC saying they will consider issues not covered in 
the resolution reports under section three of the policy, and the level of service Mr F 
received. 
I looked at the other complaint point about the content of the resolution report separately and 
have written to Mr F after considering whether we had jurisdiction to look at it. I decided we 
didnt as it wasnt a regulated activity under the Dispute Resolution Rules in the Financial 
Conduct Authority handbook.
Outstanding works from the resolution reports
Mr Fs building warranty started in July 2014. The policy is made up of different sections and 
cover. Which part of the policy applies depends on when a claim is made. During the first 
two years of the policy, section two of the cover, the builder is responsible for rectifying any 
reported defects or damage in line with the terms. If they arent co-operating, NHBC can 
mediate and carry out a resolution service and direct the builder to carry out works. If the 
builder then fails to do so by the deadline set, NHBC can step in and take over under the 
insurance part of the policy.
The first resolution report was completed by NHBC in November 2016 which directed the 
builder to fill the identified holes in the mortar. A second report, with an update on the 
proposed mortar repairs from the first report was completed in August 2017, in which it was 
identified those works hadnt been completed and still needed to be. Ultimately the builder 
failed to complete these works by the deadline and NHBC took over the claim. That 
becomes part of the insurance and regulated activities, so is in my jurisdiction to consider.
Mr F says all the works havent been completed in line with what was outlined specifically in 
the resolution report, only some have. NHBC has said that any areas of holes shown in the 
report (which is what was accepted as valid under the resolution report) which the builder 
has failed to complete in line with that report will be completed under that resolution claim. I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with the insurance cover 
under section two, the section of the policy the claim and those specific areas were 
considered under.
NHBC considering mortar issues under section three
Mr F says NHBC failed to include some reported areas and wider issues with the mortar in 
the resolution reports they completed. But I cant consider that as its outside my jurisdiction. 
Ive written to Mr F separately about that. NHBC has said instead they will consider these 
issues as new, and under section three of Mr Fs policy.
Section three covers years three to ten of the policy. As these issues and/or wider problems 
werent part of, or specifically commented on, in the previous resolution report for the section 
two claim, NHBC has treated them as new issues that have arisen. And as these are within 
years three to ten of the policy, section three is the correct part of the policy applicable for 
that time. So, I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly by considering these under the 
corresponding policy section for the year.I recognise Mr F is unhappy with these issues being considered under section three as the 
policy cover is different and carries a minimum claim value (the minimum amount in which a 
claim would need to be in order to be valid). But I dont think NHBCs position is 
unreasonable. In the absence of them being commented on specifically in the resolution 
report or considered under section two (which is outside my jurisdiction whether they should 
or shouldnt have been), I dont think NHBC is acting unfairly by offering to consider the 
remaining mortar under section three.
Delays and service received
NHBC has addressed several complaints since the claim was first started. Mr F is unhappy 
with the length of time things have taken and the service hes received from NHBC. Across 
the claim and complaints, NHBC has paid a total of £1,150 compensation.
NHBC initially said that two of the final responses they issued were raised outside the six 
months which Mr F had to bring the complaints to us. Our investigator recognised that, but 
he also noted NHBC had actually also addressed delays dating back to 2017 in their final 
response in August 2021 and had also paid compensation for this. As that final response 
was brought to us within six months, he said we could consider things dating back to 2017 
as the latest final response had also addressed the same period. NHBC accepted what he 
said. 
Our investigator noted there had been delays and poor service during the claim, but he 
thought the compensation offered overall by NHBC was fair in the circumstances. 
I recognise the claim has been ongoing for an extended period, and a lot has occurred 
during that time. Im not going to comment on everything individually, and instead I will 
summarise some key points. Disputes have arisen in particular about the extent of policy 
cover, the policy section being claimed under, and the subsequent repairs required and 
settlement. And there were delays in appointments and visits being arranged, along with 
communication issues including Mr F not being updated and needing to chase for updates 
from NHBC. The claims handler also changed a number of times throughout which will have 
added to this. 
There were also settlement negotiations for a large number of reported issues, beyond just 
the mortar, which included extensive works to the internals of Mr Fs property. This also 
meant alternative accommodation was also needed. Mr F also obtained his own expert 
opinions on matters, including on the condition of the mortar, and settlement amounts too.
So, there were delays in the claim, and poor service, and thats been accepted by NHBC. 
That is why theyve offered compensation. Overall though, I think the compensation paid by 
NHBC is fair in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask them to increase this.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman