DRN-4349565
The complaint
Mr C complains that 1st Class Credit Union Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr C had one loan from 1st Class Credit Union in March 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue
1 30 Mar 2021 £3,000 36m £100.15 14 Apr 2024
Mr C says he was already in a lot of debt when he applied for the loan and his credit file 
would have shown a County Court Judgement (CCJ) and a number of defaults. He says that 
1st Class Credit Union cannot have carried out the relevant checks as it would have seen 
this, plus his arrears on existing credit, and would not have lent to him. Mr C says that he 
was borrowing to repay other debts and the cycle of borrowing had a severe impact on his 
mental health.
1st Class Credit Union says it reviewed Mr Cs credit file and payslips at the time. It says his 
credit file showed no recent defaults and no other credit union loans. It adds that Mr C also 
declared his monthly income and expenditure which showed a disposable income of £1,290.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he was not 
satisfied that 1st Class Credit Union had carried out proportionate checks, he found that, had 
it done so there was nothing in the information it was likely to have seen that would have 
indicated the lending was unsustainable.
Mr C responded to say, in summary, that 1st Class Credit Union did not verify his income and 
the loan was unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did 1st Class Credit Union complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did 1st Class Credit Union make a fair lending decision?
Did 1st Class Credit Union act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mr C applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show 1st Class Credit Union checked 
his credit file, asked about his financial circumstances and verified his income. These checks 
showed:
Mr Cs income varied, depending on overtime, but averaged around £1,700 in the 
lead up to the loan;
Mr C declared he was divorced, with 2 dependants and living with family;
He said he paid £350 each month for rent and £60 for a mobile phone;
A credit file with:
oNine active accounts:
Three with a zero balance;
Two up-to-date telecoms loans with a combined balance of £1,673;
Four defaulted accounts with a combined balance of £1,127;
oThree CCJs
One was satisfied;
The other two had an active balance of £941;
The most recent was from January 2017.
Based on the above, I dont consider 1st Class Credit Unions checks went far enough. I say 
that because:
The loan was for a term of three years and 1st Class Credit Union needed to be sure 
the repayments were sustainable for that period;
Mr C had clearly struggled financially in the past;
I cant see 1st Class Credit Union verified Mr Cs expenditure and the declared 
figures only included rent and phone costs.
So, I consider 1st Class Credit Union should have ensured it had a thorough understanding 
of Mr Cs financial circumstances, including his regular household expenditure, before it 
agreed to the lending.
Ive had a look at Mr Cs bank statements from the time as a reasonable proxy for what 
proportionate checks may have shown. I can see that:
Mr C had lending with two other credit unions, but those repayments were deducted 
directly from his salary;
He appeared to be paying rent of £625 up until December 2020, but this ceased, and 
he received his deposit back in February 2021;I acknowledge Mr C told 1st Class Credit Union that he was living with family when 
he applied for the loan, and I cant see any regular rental payments;  
Mr C was paying child maintenance of around £350 per month;
I can see monthly payments of about £265 towards mobile phone contracts and 
around £30 monthly on subscriptions;
The most recent default was registered in October 2019.
Im satisfied that the above analysis shows Mr C had limited regular outgoings and that 
those, plus his spend on food and petrol still left him with sufficient disposable income to 
repay the loan at £100 per month. I acknowledge Mr Cs credit file showed some adverse 
information, but as this was from some time ago, I dont find 1st Class Credit Union was 
irresponsible to have approved the lending.
So, in summary, although I dont consider 1st Class Credit Union carried out proportionate 
checks, I dont find such checks would have led it to a different conclusion about the lending. 
As such I find 1st Class Credit Union made a fair lending decision and I havent seen any 
evidence to show that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. That said, having 
looked at Mr Cs more recent credit file, I can see that his financial situation appears to have 
deteriorated since March 2021, so I would remind 1st Class Credit Union of its obligation to 
treat Mr C positively and sympathetically when attempting to agree a repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman