DRN-2255678
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her business bank account, without
giving her any advance warning and without explaining the reasons for its decision.
Miss C also complains that Lloyds closed her personal account, but I will address that
complaint separately: this decision relates solely to her business account.
Miss C brings this complaint on behalf of her business, L Limited.
What happened
Miss C says she received a letter from Lloyds on 29 June 2019, explaining that her business
account would be closed in 65 days time. And that, when she checked her business
account, it had already been blocked.
Miss C says she used her business account to get paid for her work as a freelancer. And
that the immediate closure caused her problems. She said she couldnt get paid for her work
and she had to borrow money to meet her daily living expenses. She also had to take time
off work to make new banking arrangements, which cost her money.
Miss C also said she had to withdraw almost £3,000 in cash on 10 July 2019, which made
her uncomfortable. And that she couldnt check her statements to see if her full balance had
been made available to her.
When Miss C complained to Lloyds, it responded saying it had not made an error when it
blocked and closed her account. And that it had done so because of Miss Cs third-party
connections.
Our investigator felt that Lloyds had acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when
it blocked and closed Miss Cs account. So he didnt ask Lloyds to do anything to put matters
right for Miss C.
Miss C remained unhappy, so she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. On 
28 September 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the account in question  which both Lloyds and Miss C had to
comply with  say Lloyds can close an account for any reason by giving two months notice.
Or immediately and without notice, under certain circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Lloyds has provided me to explain why it closed Miss Cs
account. And Ive thought about how that sits against the terms of the account. Ive seen a
letter from Lloyds dated 30 July 2019, telling Miss C that her account would be closed on 6
October 2019. Lloyds has confirmed that the account was closed on 12 September 2019,
which of course is less than the two months Lloyds is required to give.
But Miss C has told our service that she received a different letter on 29 June 2019,
confirming her account would be closed. So, while there may have been some confusion
with the 2nd letter Lloyds issued, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to close the account.
And that it did so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account.I also note that Miss C had withdrawn the funds in the account before the 2nd closure letter,
so the confusion wouldnt have caused any harm such that it would warrant a payment of
compensation.
Account block
While Lloyds was entitled to close Miss Cs account with two months notice, it also blocked
her account on 2 July 2019. The account remained blocked for the duration of the notice
period, save that Miss C was allowed to withdraw the funds in the account which she did on
10 July 2019.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers
accounts while they carry out a review. So, if Lloyds can demonstrate that it blocked Miss
Cs account in accordance with its obligations, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to uphold
Miss Cs complaint.
Having considered the information Lloyds has sent our Service though, I havent seen
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that it was entitled to block Miss Cs account. And
because the block remained in place throughout the notice period, Miss C didnt have
access to her account after the notice was served. Which effectively negated the notice
period Lloyds had given Miss C.
With that in mind, Ive thought about the impact the block had on Miss C and whether Lloyds
should have to do anything to put things right for her. While Miss C did have alternative
personal banking arrangements, she didnt have alternative business banking arrangements.
So, when Lloyds blocked her business account, she had to quickly make alternative
arrangements to allow her to receive payments for her freelance work.That meant Miss C had to take time off work and that she had to delay getting paid for her
work. Because she didnt have access to her money, she also had to borrow money to meet
her day to day living expenses, such as rent and groceries. And Miss C has explained that
this caused her distress.
Miss C also said she felt uncomfortable withdrawing almost £3,000 in cash (£2,580.26 of
which was from her business account) and that she couldnt access her statement, so she
couldnt verify if she had been given her full account balance.
Understandably, Miss C hasnt been able to provide evidence to demonstrate she lost out on
work. But without evidence to support the loss shes claiming, I cant make an award in her
favour in that regard. And Ive seen Miss Cs closing statement, which confirms she was
given the full account balance on 10 July 2019.
So, while I accept this would have caused Miss C concern, Im satisfied she hasnt lost out
on her account balance. And I cant reasonably say that Lloyds acted unfairly in paying Miss
Cs account balance in cash. While I appreciate Miss Cs anxiety in carrying a large amount
of money, Im satisfied that doing so was a perfectly legitimate way for Lloyds to pay Miss C.
However, I am persuaded that Miss C suffered distress and inconvenience in the eight days
she didnt have access to her money. And because I havent seen sufficient evidence to
support Lloydss actions, Im minded to tell it to pay Miss C £250 to compensate her.
When deciding on the amount Lloyds should pay Miss C to put things right, Ive balanced the
trouble and upset she experienced against the relatively short period of time she went
without access to her money. And Ive discounted the matters Ive referred to above, for the
reasons Ive explained.I asked Miss C and Lloyds to provide any further submissions or evidence by 12 October 
2020. Neither Miss C, nor Lloyds responded to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss C, nor Lloyds made any further representations or offered any further 
evidence, my findings about this complaint havent changed. It follows that I uphold Miss Cs 
complaint in part.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lloyds must pay Miss C £250 in 
recognition of the trouble and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman