DRN-1708484
 
Complaint
Mr D says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mr D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. Mr D paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
I sent Mr D and HSBC a provisional decision on 3 March 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr D had a financial review with HSBC, where they went through his circumstances and 
recommended what products he should take. These were only recommendations, not 
requirements, which Mr D was free to accept or turn down. I can see that Mr D didnt agree 
with all the recommendations, so he was aware that it was his choice. According to the 
electronic record of the mortgage application, Mr D chose PPI. Following their meeting, the 
advisor wrote to Mr D to confirm that theyd discussed taking a larger policy but decided on 
this one. Ive not seen any wider problems with HSBCs sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that it misled Mr D in this particular sale. So I think its most likely that 
HSBC made Mr D aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr D 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions. While Mr D had 
a second job, this wouldve only mattered if he worked at least 16 hours a week. And given 
his recorded income from the second job, and the minimum wage at the time, he wont have 
been working more than six hours a week on average. So it doesnt look like this second job 
wouldve affected Mr Ds ability to claim. And it only represented a small part of his income 
compared to his main job. Indeed, the documents from the time detail that Mr D only took out 
PPI to cover his main income. Of course, if Mr D can evidence that he was consistently 
working at least 16 hours a week at his second job, then I can reconsider this point.
From what Mr Ds told us and the documents from the time, it doesnt look like he had any 
work benefits from his main job, aside from the very limited statutory ones. And he didnt 
have any alternative insurance or protection, or any savings. That potentially left him at 
serious risk if hed been off sick or lost his main job. I understand Mr Ds family may have 
been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. 
And this mortgage was Mr Ds sole responsibility  I dont think it wouldve been suitable for 
HSBC to advise him to rely on other people to pay it. Ultimately, the mortgage was a 
significant, long-term commitment, and if Mr D had fallen behind on it he couldve lost his 
home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his home.It is possible that the information HSBC gave Mr D about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr D chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mr D wasnt significantly affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks 
like it wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr D 
could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
So I have not found that this policy was mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
31 March 2020. Mr D and HSBC let me know they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman