DRN-3735674
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclaycard (Barclaycard) defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card from Barclaycard. He suffered an accident and a brain trauma, and 
subsequently was affected by depression and anxiety. In April 2020, his Barclaycard 
account had fallen into arrears of £7,413. He had been in touch with Barclays who had 
agreed a hold on his current account debt of £4,192, and his house was sold in September 
2020 to repay his Barclays mortgage. He called Barclays special support team on 1 May 
2020 and on 5 June 2020 about his current account but the calls also went into his 
Barclaycard debt. No further payments were made to his Barclaycard account and the 
account was defaulted in July 2020.
Mr G complained. He explained he suffered a skiing accident which had resulted in long 
term brain injury. This also led to bad depression and anxiety; and a long period of 
unemployment. He had told Barclays and Barclaycard all about that. He said that all his 
creditors, including Barclays (for his current account and mortgage) had been sympathetic 
to his situation and hadnt defaulted his accounts  and had agreed standstill positions. He 
recognised that his debts had to be repaid and would be. But Barclaycard had placed a 
default on his account - which was now on his credit record for six years. He said he had 
spoken to Barclays in May 2020  about his current account - and was told that the 
standstill agreement he had on his current account would also apply to his Barclaycard. So 
 he said the default wasnt fair.
Barclaycard said theyd received the information about Mr Gs health issues when he sent it 
to them in March 2020. They had suspended interest. As his income was more than his 
expenditure, his account was moved into a zero offer process. This still meant that arrears 
accrued and eventually a default notice was sent to Mr G on 4 May 2020 and a default then 
registered on his credit file - in July 2020. They said the agents Mr G spoke to on the calls 
didnt refer to the possibility of a default being registered, and they should have. The 
Barclays call handler shouldve transferred Mr G to Barclaycard to discuss his Barclaycard 
account in detail but didnt. For the poor handling of the calls, Barclaycard offered 
compensation of £150.
Mr G didnt accept this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard 
acted reasonably. He accepted that Barclays verbal communications on the calls couldve 
been clearer, but theyd set out everything clearly in writing  which he felt was enough.
Barclaycard had sent a default notice on 4 May 2020, and when the payments it asked for 
werent made a default was registered. So  on balance, he didnt think Barclaycard should
do anymore.
I reached a provisional decision where I said I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I said:
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that he was told by call handlers in Barclays (not 
Barclaycard) that the agreement he had on his current account would apply to his 
Barclaycard.
Mr G suffered a skiing accident some years before which he thinks was the cause of his 
subsequent health problems. He told us he had debts of £1.3 million but was dealing with 
them. He had come to standstill arrangements with all his creditors, including his Barclays 
current account  and he had put his house on the market to repay his Barclays mortgage 
(which Barclays told us was then repaid in September 2020). He had written to 
Barclaycard in March 2020 and showed medical evidence from his doctor which confirmed 
he had suicidal tendencies; a history of mental health issues; poor concentration and 
demotivation; severe anxiety and depression; and a likely low capacity to deal with 
financial affairs. As a result, he hadnt worked for eight months. Ive seen that medical 
evidence.
It's important for me to record this information as it shows that Mr G was vulnerable  as 
he has said he couldnt easily engage with his financial situation, or to make rational 
decisions. Ive seen that Barclaycard recorded receipt of the medical evidence in their 
notes in March 2020. So  they were aware of his health issues. The Financial Conduct 
Authority says, a vulnerable customer is someone who, due to their personal 
circumstances, is especially susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm is not acting with 
appropriate levels of care". It seems to me that Mr G was in such a position and had a 
lower than normal ability to engage with his financial situation. And in those 
circumstances, firms such as Barclaycard should adjust their actions to take this into 
account.
There is no doubt that Mr G was in financial difficulty  as he hadnt worked for eight 
months. His income and expenditure form (sent to Barclaycard in March 2020) showed he 
had monthly outgoings of £6,600 and no income. But he was engaging with Barclays and 
Barclaycard to sort his debts out. By April 2020, he was in arrears on his Barclaycard 
account. Barclaycard then agreed to a zero-interest arrangement. On 6 April 2020, they 
confirmed this in an email to Mr G which said We will support you with suspended 
interest and charges and although a Default will register on your credit file, we are still here 
to support you for as long as you need it. After this time, you will stop receiving monthly 
statements and arrears letters. In the meantime, I am sorry that I cannot prevent these 
from being sent, as we are obliged to keep you informed of your account position. But 
please do not worry as we are not expecting you to respond and I cannot reassure you 
enough that we will not expect you to make payments that are not affordable. And so  
to be fair to Barclaycard, they set out the agreement and said a default may well be 
registered on Mr Gs credit file.
Ive also seen the Default Notice dated 4 May 2020  which said that the arrears of 
£7,412 had to be paid by 7 July 2020 - and their letter dated 7 July 2020  which said the 
default had been registered. So  Barclaycard did set out their position in writing.
But equally, I have to consider that Mr G was in a vulnerable position  and on balance, 
its unlikely that he was able to come to terms with his financial situation  and 
Barclaycard shouldve been aware of that, and adjusted how they acted.
And - Mr G had come to an agreement with Barclays on his current account which had a 
debt of around £4,200. He called Barclays special support team about that on 1 May 
2020 and I listened to the call. Barclays Bank call handler was very empathetic and 
confirmed to Mr G that given his situation, Barclays would charge no interest or fees on 
his current account, nor would they take any action. He said that because of Mr Gs 
situation, Barclays were not going through the banks normal collections process. And  
given Mr Gs vulnerability that was the right thing to do. The call handler said no payments 
were needed, but if nothing had changed by September 2020, a letter of demand would be sent, but because youre under special support, it doesnt go anywhere. By this - I 
take it to mean that no further action would be taken (such as a default).
Mr G then asked about his Barclaycard  he said it was impossible to get through to them 
to speak. Barclays call handler said Barclaycard can do exactly the same on the credit 
card side. There is no need for two conversations. He went onto say that Barclaycard 
would close off Mr Gs account in two months, but then no payments would be needed for 
12 months, with no fees or interest charged. He said again the same as on the current 
account side. Mr G showed us the notes he made of the call  and they were the same.
Mr G called Barclays again on 5 June 2020, and I listened also to that call. The call handler 
detailed again the arrangement for Mr Gs current account  as on the call on 1 May 2020. 
Mr G then asked again about his Barclaycard account as he was still getting messages 
from them. Barclays call handler checked Mr Gs Barclaycard records and (referring to the 
conversation on 1 May 2020) said hes put it on  a nil payment arrangement. Mr G asked 
again so theres nothing for me to do?. The call hander said no.
There wasnt any mention on the calls of a default or effect on Mr Gs credit file on either 
call.
Barclaycard have said to us that Barclays call handlers cannot speak for the credit card 
business. That maybe the case, but we cant expect Mr G to have known that  and 
Barclays call handlers (in the special support team) shouldve said so  and transferred Mr 
G to Barclaycard. But they didnt  and they confirmed that Mr G didnt need to do anything 
with his Barclaycard, and that the same arrangement applied on his credit card as on his 
current account. So  I think it was reasonable for Mr G to conclude that he didnt need to 
take any action on his Barclaycard account, nor make any payments to it. This was 
especially so considering his vulnerable situation.
And so, in the circumstances of Mr Gs case, I intent to uphold his complaint, and ask 
Barclaycard to remove the default from Mr Gs credit file and come to a mutually 
satisfactory agreement for the repayment of the outstanding debt. Barclaycard have 
offered to pay compensation of £150  and I agree with that, although Mr G has said he 
just wants the default removed.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr G accepted my findings but made the point that he had repaid his credit card debt, as 
well as his current account debt. Barclaycard agreed with the provisional decision and 
confirmed both debts had been repaid.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr G and Barclaycard agreed with the provisional decision, I am not going to 
change it in my final decision  other varying it to the extent that the debts have been repaid and therefore there is no need for a repayment schedule to be put in place  so that 
part of the remedy is no longer needed.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Remove the default dated July 2020 from Mr Gs credit file.
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman