DRN-2556750
Complaint
Mr D complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr D bought the policy in September 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
The policy cost 77p per £100 of Mr Ds outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint passed to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 2021 and explained that I agreed with the 
outcome reached by our adjudicator, but I provided some further clarification and gave Mr D 
and NatWest an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr D that the policy was optional, and it had to get his 
consent before applying PPI to his account. Our adjudicator said that Mr D signed separately 
for the policy, but we dont have a copy of an application form to confirm this. The sale took 
place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much information. That 
means, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of NatWest cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr D would have been sold his PPI. Using what I know 
generally of NatWests sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr D would 
have been given an option to take out the PPI and that NatWest would have gained his 
consent before adding it to his credit card account. 
In addition to this, I can see the PPI appeared on Mr Ds credit card statements as CREDIT 
CARD REPAYMENT PROTECTOR and I think this is quite prominent. So, I think its likely 
Mr D would have seen this and if he wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected him 
to query the transactions with NatWest much sooner. 
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mr D was aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time. 
NatWest says it didnt give Mr D any advice and Mr D hasnt said anything to make me think 
it would have. So, NatWest didnt have to check the policy was right for Mr D, but it did need 
to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And based on what I know about 
his circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to him, so I dont think 
better information would have stopped him buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest 
the policy wasnt affordable for Mr D at the time of sale.
Mr D says he was entitled to 12 months full sick pay, had some savings and two endowment 
policies. He also says he had access to a union hardship fund and that he could have asked 
his parents for help.
Our adjudicator asked Mr D if he could provide any evidence of his sick pay entitlement, but 
he wasnt able to. So, Ive thought about whether I think its likely Mr D had the level of sick 
pay he says he did, considering the industry he worked in and the job title he held. 
Its very unusual for an employer in the industry Mr D worked in to offer such generous sick 
pay to its employees. So, in the absence of anything persuasive to support what Mr Ds told 
us, I dont think the likely sick pay he would have been entitled to would have meant the 
policy wasnt useful to him. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr D 
received and he could have made repeated claims subject to a requalification period, so I 
think the PPI could have been useful to him if he fell on hard times. 
While Mr D says he had some savings and two endowment policies  the PPI would have 
enabled him to use his savings for any other financial commitments he may have had at 
what could be a difficult time. The PPI also avoided a situation where hed need to surrender 
his endowment policies early and potentially lose out on future earnings, just to cover his 
credit card repayments. And while his family may have wanted to help, their circumstances 
could change which means their help could not always be relied on. So, again, I dont think 
this meant the policy would not have been useful for him.  
Finally, Ive thought about what Mr D has told us about the union hardship fund he says he 
could have made use of. While I dont doubt what Mr D has told us, I dont think this would 
have meant that the PPI wasnt useful. Usually, the sums offered by these types of funds are 
limited and wouldnt be enough to cover of all of Mr Ds basic expenses and other financial 
commitments. 
So, based on what Ive said above, I dont think better information would have changed 
Mr Ds decision to take the policy.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision and said he regrets that he didnt record the 
exchanges he had with NatWest  he believes this would have been helpful to me. But he 
hasnt provided anything further for me to consider. And NatWest has confirmed it has 
nothing further to add. 
As Ive not received any new evidence or information, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. That means I dont think Mr Ds 
PPI policy was mis-sold. So, NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr D.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint because the PPI policy wasnt mis-
sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr D. 
National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman