DRN-3028404
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance
policy. Where I refer to Ageas, I include complaints-handlers and others insofar as I hold 
Ageas responsible for their actions. 
  
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a hatchback first registered in late 2017. For the year
from April 2020, Mr H was insured to drive the car under a comprehensive telematics policy.  
Ageas was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. The policy 
documents also named another company (or strictly speaking two sister companies).
In late August 2020, Mr Hs car suffered accidental damage beyond economic repair. In mid-
September 2020, an engineer reported that the car had been worth £10,020.00 before the
accident damage. But in late September 2020, Ageas said the car had been worth £9,634.00 
and offered Mr H that amount less the policy excess.
With help from his father, Mr H complained to Ageas that it hadnt offered him enough. By a
final response dated early October 2020, Ageas turned down the complaint. Mr H brought
the complaint to us in February 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
approach Ageas took was reasonable. She said that the value Ageas offered was within the
range of the three guide valuations she had got, so she thought the outcome was fair.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Ageas on 3 August 2021. I summarise my findings:
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one 
insurance company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision, 
we name the firm, but we dont identify any other party.
For a vehicle like Mr Hs at the time of the accident, the trade guide figures were:
Glasss £  9,650.00
Cazana £  9,897.00
CAP £10,098.00
The range of those figures is quite narrow. Ageass valuation of £9,634.00 is less 
than the lowest of the three figures - £9,650.00. So I didnt understand why the 
investigator thought Ageass figure was within that range. The average of those three 
figures is about £9,882.00.
Ageas should increase its valuation to £9,882.00. That would require that Ageas 
should make a further payment of £248.00. As Mr H has been out of pocket in that 
amount since he made his claim, I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Ageas to pay interest at our usual rate from 24 September 2020.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Ageas, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £248.00 more for his car;
2. simple interest on £248.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 24 September 2020 to 
the date of its payment. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ageas hasnt responded to the provisional decision. At our request, it has provided a 
certificate of insurance and a policy book.
Mr H disagrees with the provisional decision. His father says, in summary, that:
They reported the accident to the other company on the day of the accident. They 
were under the impression it was their insurer, that is who they paid their premium to.
That company told them the case would be handled by an accident company on their 
behalf. It did not explain why  they assumed this was the usual course of events and 
that the accident company must deal with all of the other companys claims.
The accident company instructed the engineers report, they had no involvement. 
The accident company was acting for the other company.
From a press release dated 28 May 2019, Ageas had signed a new three-year deal 
with the other company to provide motor insurance products to young drivers. The 
other company and Ageas are associated companies, and so the other company 
instructed the accident company on behalf of Ageas.
The engineers report should be relied upon by Ageas, and the ombudsman.
The engineers report was instructed, albeit indirectly, by Ageas through companies 
acting on their behalf in settling the claim.
The accident company told them in late September it was passing the case to Ageas, 
without any explanation. This was the first time Ageas had been mentioned  the 
accident company did not mention the other company.
They didnt refer the case to Ageas at all.
 Any interest payments should be from August, not 24 September.
In late September, they asked the accident company why the case was being passed 
to Ageas. It said it deals with the straightforward cases for the other company but as the third partys insurance company had not responded to correspondence, it had 
passed it to Ageas to deal with directly.
Ageas ignored the engineers report and the day after they called, contrived a 
desktop valuation.
Neither the other company, the accident company or Ageas are being transparent.
A professional valuation was completed (maybe indirectly) on Ageass behalf and this 
lends more weight than a rather suspicious desktop valuation, or industry guides 
to value, that are not definitive assessments of true worth.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision, we name the firm,
but we dont identify any other party.
Our approach to vehicle valuation complaints is published on our website. We consider all
evidence to decide whether the insurance company has treated the policyholder fairly.
We expect insurance companies to use retail valuations from the trade guides. We usually
find such valuations persuasive because they are based on extensive research of likely
selling prices.
From the certificate and policy booklet, Im satisfied that it was clear that Ageas was the 
insurer with whom Mr H had his policy.
The policy covered accidental damage to the car up to its pre-accident market value. Any
claim was subject to a policy excess of £750.00.
Mr Hs car and a left-hand drive lorry collided on a roundabout. From the circumstances I
find it likely that Mr H considered that the third party had been at fault.
Mr H contacted the other company. Ive seen a letter from that company to Ageas with a 
heading to the effect that Mr H was reporting the accident for information only and had opted 
not to claim on the Ageas policy. So I accept Ageass statement that the other company put 
Mr H in touch with the accident company. I dont share his fathers view that the other 
company  and the accident company were acting on behalf of Ageas.
A qualified engineer inspected the car. He referred to one of the trade guides (Glasss) and
he gave a pre-accident market value of £10,020.00. His report was verified by a declaration
of the type that would be required in an experts report for use in court proceedings. I place
some weight on his valuation.
As Ageas hadnt instructed that engineer, I dont share Mr Hs fathers view that Ageas was
responsible for the valuation of £10,020.00. So I dont accept that Ageas was responsible for
any reliance Mr H or his family placed on that valuation when they decided to buy a
replacement vehicle. And I dont share Mr Hs fathers view that Ageas was responsible for
that valuation but then changed its mind about it.
From its claim notes, I dont think Mr H made a claim to Ageas until about 24 September2020. Ageas didnt inspect the car. It did a desktop valuation using the following figures:
Glasss £  9,660.00
CAP £  9,608.00
The average of those valuations is £9,634.00 and thats what Ageas offered in its letter
dated 30 September 2020. Its not clear to me why Ageass accident damage report is dated
the day after that letter. But that report shows that Ageas had the appropriate details of the
car, with photographs of the damage and of the odometer showing about 18,000 miles.
Our investigator and I have checked three trade guides. For a vehicle like the one Mr H was 
driving at the time of the accident, I find that the trade guide figures were as follows:
Glasss £  9,650.00
Cazana £  9,897.00
CAP £10,098.00
In my view the range of those figures is quite narrow. Ageass valuation of £9,634.00 is less
than the lowest of the three figures - £9,650.00. So I dont understand why the investigator
thought Ageass figure was within that range. The average of those three figures is about
£9,882.00. I dont consider that Ageas acted fairly.   
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable that Ageas should increase its valuation to £9,882.00. That 
would require that Ageas should make a further payment of £248.00. As Mr H has been out 
of pocket in that amount since he made his claim, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas 
to pay interest at our usual rate from 24 September 2020. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr H:
1. £248.00 more for the car;
2. simple interest on £248.00 at the yearly rate of 8% from 24 September 2020 to 
the date of its payment. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman