DRN-3673256
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) has unfairly declined 
a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr M tells us that he sold some equipment to a club, where he was a member. He didnt 
receive payment and on recovery of the equipment, he found some items were missing and 
some were broken. So he made a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy to take 
legal action against them. 
UKI instructed a panel firm of solicitors, whose advice was that the claim didnt fall within the 
scope of cover available under the policy. This is because they werent satisfied there was a 
contract to sell goods and that it appeared to be connected with a business and / or venture 
for gain  which is excluded under the policy.
Mr M didnt agree so he raised a complaint, which he brought to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She was persuaded that UKI had dealt with the claim in 
accordance with the policys terms and conditions and that its decision wasnt unfair. 
But Mr M disagreed. He says UKI initially accepted the claim and he followed all the advice 
he was given. But he was later told the claim wasnt covered and he doesnt feel that the 
solicitors were suitably qualified or independent. He says UKI has already acknowledged 
failings in the service provided as hes received payment by way of an apology. 
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators view of his complaint, its been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say it will cover contract disputes defined as 
breach of contract claims forselling goods. It goes on to exclude any contract dispute 
claims arising from or related tocontracts connected with a profession, business, trade or 
venture for gain. 
So in order for Mr Ms claim to be covered, it needs to be shown that he was 1) selling the 
equipment to the club, and 2) entering into the contract in a personal capacity and not as a 
business venture or a venture for gain  i.e. he wasnt looking to obtain anything more than 
the value of the goods.
I should be clear that its not my role to decide whether or not Mr Ms claim is covered by his 
policy. Instead its for me to decide whether UKIs decision on the claim was made in line 
with the policy terms and fair, based on the evidence it had available at the time. So Ive 
reviewed the evidence available, which Ive set out below:
In the panel solicitors letter to Mr M dated 16 April 2021, they say theyd received a 
statement from the clubs manager which led them to believe that instead of 
receiving consideration (money) for the rental of the equipment, [Mr M] would be 
receiving shares in the business if the business became viable and profitable. 
 
Mr M responded to the solicitor by email on 13 May 2021 which said I would have to 
have been part of a business arrangement with [the club] for that to have happened, I 
was not, the terms were that as far as I was then aware [the club] loaned the 
equipment The possible gratuity that may have been given to me might have been 
use of the room for free or a small discount against my fees, nothing had been 
agreed, just discussed as a thank you from the club. My terms with [the club] were 
that they hired/ loaned the equipment and what they did with it was for them to 
generate their business for themselvesterms were should [the club] generate 
income to enable growth and success of the club and its facilities I was happy to 
support the club without receiving any payment. Benefit of a healthy club is always 
passed down to its members.
In an email to UKI dated 10 September 2021, Mr M says I probably may agree with 
you that the club may not be a viable claim due to the fact that it seems loaning of the 
equipment did not go through the committee. 
In an email to UKI dated 11 October 2021, Mr M says [the clubs manager] asked if 
they could loan my conferencing equipment and wanted to trial it at [the club] in order 
to see if a viable use or business case could be made by the club to run a 
conferencing suite facility in the area.no mention of payment was made at this time 
or of any gain to me, it was a straight can you lead in discussion I mentioned that 
rather than or before [the club] actually bought their own equipment should 
conferencing suite be successful, I may be, and I stress may be, offered a small 
token of thanks, it might come in the reduction in part fees or if ever I run a training 
session again, I may not have had to pay for the room hire. It was a loose verbal 
gesture without any concrete backing[the club] would either have bought new 
equipment for themselves or possibly purchased mine if I deemed I no longer needed 
it, there is nothing than confirms I would receive any gratuity.
In a further statement dated 14 March 2021, the club manager says we spoke 
aboutusing his equipment to trial prior to purchase. [Mr M] was happy to advance 
to us the equipment and enable us to use it subject to: that if or when it became 
viable an interest an agreed fee would be paid to purchase the conferencing 
equipment, non-viability it was to be given back.
In an undated statement to the court (which was created on 6 April 2022 according to 
the document properties), Mr M says it was agreedthat the equipment shall be 
used by [the club] under terms of a purchase and that when the business was viable 
and profitable payment would be made to me. 
Looking at the information above and the file as a whole, Mr M consistently refers to 
lending his equipment to the club with no mention of payment. This isnt a contract for 
selling goods, so its understandable why UKI concluded, based on the legal advice, that the 
claim didnt fall within the scope of cover. It appears Mr M makes no mention of selling the 
equipment until after his claim had been declined, in his statement to the court.Its not clear whether UKI has seen the further statement from the clubs manager and it 
appears to say something different to the statement he provided to the solicitors. However, 
this statement says the clubs use of the equipment was a trial prior to purchase. So again, 
this points back to it being a loan and that the club were a potential future purchaser with any 
sale only taking place subject to various conditions being met (which were not)  which 
doesnt show that a contract for sale had been entered into at the time the equipment was 
handed over. This is further evidenced by the lack of information showing that Mr M had 
chased the club for payment, but instead the return of the equipment  indicating a loan. 
There is inconsistency over what remuneration Mr M was expecting to receive from the club. 
Its unclear whether he was to receive a share in the business or the profits, or some 
additional benefits to his membership, or anything at all. What I cant ascertain from any of 
the documentation is an actual agreed sale price for this equipment.
Overall, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr M wasnt selling these goods, and if he 
was it was for other benefits rather than a payment for the goods themselves. As cover 
under the policy is only for a contract of sale and not for business purposes or a venture for 
gain, Im satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim was in accordance with the policy 
terms and fair in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns that his claim was initially accepted. But whilst UKI may initially 
have been satisfied that the claim met the policy terms, it later established through legal 
advice and gathering further information that it was not  and Im satisfied that decision is fair 
for the reasons Ive explained. 
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments that the solicitors werent suitably qualified or 
independent. But Ive seen no evidence of this. Whilst the firm is on UKIs panel of solicitors, 
they are independent from UKI and are obligated to comply with the rules and regulations 
that govern solicitors. From the information Ive been provided with, the individuals in 
particular that have assessed Mr Ms claim are located in the firms civil litigation department 
with the relevant experience for a breach of contract claim. Im aware that Mr M has received 
compensation payments previously, by way of an apology, from UKI under previous 
complaints. But these appear to relate to the solicitors delays and customer service rather 
than anything that would lead me to believe their advice cant be relied upon.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman