DRN-2967149
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of his income protection policy by First Complete Ltd.
What happened
Mr H took out the policy through First Complete in 2012. The aim of the policy was to 
pay benefit if Mr H couldnt work in his occupation because of illness or injury (known as 
own occupation cover). However, after 12 months of a claim being in payment, the 
cover then changed and benefit would only continue to be paid if Mr H couldnt do three 
out of six listed activities (known as activities of daily work cover).
In 2020, Mr H complained to First Complete about the sale of the policy. He said hed 
thought hed taken out own occupation cover, and hadnt known the cover would 
switch after 12 months.
First Complete didnt uphold the complaint. It thought Mr H couldve made a 
successful claim under the policy, and so didnt think it had been mis-sold. Unhappy 
with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr H had 
been given sufficient information from First Complete which showed that the cover 
switched after 12 months.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 August 2021. Heres what I said:
Ive looked at the time of sale documents, to see whether First Complete made Mr 
H aware of how the policy worked.
The adviser obtained a quote from the insurer dated 6 November 2012. This said: 
Income Protection Benefit (Initial Own Occupation definition). Though it didnt 
explain what that meant.
The adviser then wrote to Mr H on 7 November 2012, and set out his reasons for 
recommending income protection cover. The adviser explained that income 
protection insurance aimed to give Mr H an income if he couldnt work in the event 
of illness or disability. The adviser then went on to say that hed identified that Mr 
H had a need to protect his income in the event of his inability to work due to ill 
health.
The adviser didnt mention anything in his letter to Mr H about the definition of 
incapacity changing to activities of daily work after 12 months. I think the advisers 
letter made it clear that he was recommending that Mr H take out cover that provided a 
benefit in the event he couldnt work (own occupation cover). Mr H accepted the 
recommendation on that basis.
The insurer accepted the application, but due to Mr Hs job, that meant the insurer 
classified him as having a class 3 occupation. For that occupation class, the insurer 
had taken a decision to only offer own occupation cover for the first 12 months of a 
claim, and then the cover would switch to activities of daily work.
The policy schedule issued to Mr H by the insurer said the following in respect 
of the definition of incapacity:
Incapacity Definition Own Occupation (then switch to Activities of Daily Work).
I wouldnt have expected Mr H to understand what that meant. Hed been led to 
believe by First Complete that he was taking out own occupation cover, and had 
applied for the policy on that basis. Therefore, not only did the policy work differently 
to how First Complete had described it to Mr H, but also the activities of daily work 
definition is quite restrictive (much more so than own occupation cover), and so Id 
have expected the adviser to have made that very clear to Mr H.
Consequently, I think the policy was mis-sold. However, I dont think that Mr 
H experienced a financial loss as a result. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr H wanted own occupation cover. He had this under the 
policy, though only for the first 12 months of a claim being paid. Therefore, the switch 
to a different definition of incapacity would only become an issue after 12 months of a 
claim being in payment.
As I understand it, Mr H didnt make any claims under the policy. And so he hasnt 
experienced a financial loss as a result of the change to the definition of incapacity 
after 12 months. Mr H has now cancelled the policy, and so we know he wont 
experience a financial loss in the future either.
When we find a policy has been mis-sold, our aim is to place the consumer in 
the position they wouldve been in, if not for the error.
I could require First Complete to refund the premiums Mr H had paid for the policy. But 
the policy did give him own occupation cover (which is what he wanted), even if this was 
only for the first 12 months of a claim. So the policy was partly suitable for him.
Its also the case that if Mr H hadnt taken out this policy and had instead taken out a 
income protection cover on a fully own occupation basis, this wouldve likely been more 
expensive than the policy he took out (as own occupation cover is more expensive than 
activities of daily work cover). And so I think Mr H was most likely financially better off 
by taking out this policy than one that only provided own occupation cover.
I therefore dont intend to require First Complete to pay Mr H any compensation, as 
although I think the policy was mis-sold, I dont think hes experienced any financial 
loss as a result.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
First Complete responded. It said that, in the main, it agreed with my provisional 
decision. Though it said that Mr H was sent documentation by the insurer a week after 
the application was submitted, and this made it clear he should read the information to 
make sure it was suitable. First Complete thinks the activities of daily work explanation 
was made clear in that documentation, and says that Mr H had a 30-day cooling-off 
period in which to change his mind.Mr H responded to say he disagreed with my provisional decision. He made the 
following main points:
I have acknowledged that he was mis-sold this policy. He says he paid 
approximately £8,500 over 96 months, yet I have said that he isnt entitled 
to a refund of his money that was paid towards a policy that wasnt fit for 
purpose.
He thinks I have missed the point entirely, as he has paid approximately £8,500 
for something that he didnt consent to purchase. And that if hed needed to 
make a claim, this wouldve caused his family a lot of hardship and pain, 
because it wouldnt have covered him for what he had wanted.
If First Complete had been honest, he wouldnt have taken out the policy 
and wouldve found a suitable policy elsewhere.
He would like a refund for all the premiums he paid after the first 12 months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Complete says that Mr H was sent documentation by the insurer after the sale 
took place, and that this information explained what activities of daily work meant.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
requires insurance intermediaries to give customers appropriate information about a policy 
in good time, so that a customer can make an informed decision about the proposed 
arrangement. That information should include the main benefits, exclusions, limitations and 
conditions.
I would expect an insurance intermediary to provide the relevant information to a consumer 
when recommending a product so that they can make an informed decision before 
agreeing to take it out. It isnt appropriate for an insurance intermediary to fail to do so, and 
instead expect a consumer to make an informed decision after the sale has taken place, 
based on product information sent by the insurer to the consumer.
Mr H says that the policy wasnt fit for purpose, but I disagree. The policy would have 
provided the cover he wanted for the first 12 months of any valid claim. The issue would 
only arise after a claim had been paid for 12 months.
I accept Mr Hs point that if hed needed to claim, then he may have been at a 
disadvantage (after 12 months). Though as Ive said, Mr H hasnt made any claims under 
the policy. If he had needed to make a claim and was disadvantaged as a result of the mis-
sale, then I wouldve required First Complete to put matters right. However, that hasnt 
happened. And as the policy has now ended, he wont be disadvantaged by the mis-sale in 
the future either.
I also accept that if Mr H had understood how the policy worked, he wouldve taken out a 
suitable policy elsewhere. However, as Ive explained, a policy that only provided own 
occupation cover (which is what Mr H wanted) wouldve likely been much more expensive 
than this policy. Therefore, to put Mr H back in the position he wouldve been in if hed 
taken out an own occupation policy, would mean that he wouldve paid more in premiums than he actually paid.
Mr H says he wants a refund of premiums paid after the first 12 months. To be clear, the 
cover under the policy didnt change after the first 12 months of the policy being in force. If it 
did work in that way, then I wouldve required First Complete to return his premiums 
because the policy wouldnt have been suitable for him after 2013 (a year after hed taken 
out the policy). However, as Ive said, the policy didnt work that way. The cover would only 
change to the activities of daily work definition after Mr H had made a valid claim and the 
insurer had paid that claim for more than 12 months.
I therefore remain satisfied that, whilst I think the policy was mis-sold, it was still 
partly suitable for Mr H and he hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman