DRN-2176169
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the amount of compensation Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) paid her 
after it in correctly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs M had a home emergency insurance policy with Aviva, covering plumbing and electrics. 
She made a claim to Aviva because her heating and hot water werent working. Aviva 
declined her claim, explaining that the policy didnt cover her boiler.
Mrs M cancelled her policy and took out cover with another company. She paid the new 
company £99 to repair a faulty timer. 
Mrs M was unhappy that Aviva hadnt covered her claim and asked it to pay her back for the 
repair. She also wanted Aviva to refund the premiums shed paid. Aviva told Mrs M that it 
had made a mistake and the timer was covered under her policy, so it shouldve accepted 
her original claim. It offered £80 compensation by way of apology and agreed to reimburse 
the £99 repair cost on receipt of proof of payment.
Although Aviva understood this resolved Mrs Ms complaint, she decided that £80 wasnt 
enough to address the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Aviva had done enough to put 
matters right and that the compensation already paid was fair. However, he thought Aviva 
should pay the repair cost without waiting for evidence of payment.
Mrs M didnt agree. She thought £3000 was a more appropriate amount. She also wanted 
Aviva to take her off its mailing list, and she thought something more should be done about 
its actions after becoming aware of a similar complaint in the news.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise that this is not the outcome Mrs M had hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold 
her complaint. Ill explain why.
The facts of the matter are not disputed, so the remaining issue is whether Avivas offer of 
compensation is enough.
I dont doubt that it mustve been frustrating for Mrs M when Aviva rejected her claim for 
cover which she, rightly, believed was in place. And I can understand why she cancelled the 
cover and moved her custom elsewhere. Aviva made a mistake and, as it happens, Mrs M 
was able to get cover elsewhere, quickly, and the matter was resolved within a couple of 
days. So the impact of being without heating and hot water was limited, albeit not because of 
anything Aviva did.
I see that Aviva offered to send an engineer as a paid for service, which Mrs M declined. I 
can understand why she did that. But it does tell me that Aviva didnt just ignore the problem 
and it wouldve tried to restore her heating and hot water. And, had it done so, I think its 
likely it wouldve realised its mistake and covered the repair under her policy. That said, I 
think is was reasonable that Mrs M declined its offer and went to another company.
Aviva accepted its mistake as soon as Mrs M complained. It paid the £80 shed agreed to 
and offered to cover the repair costs. I think that was fair. When she brought her complaint to 
this service, Mrs M hadnt received the £99 repair cost because Aviva hadnt received proof 
of payment. I agree with our investigator here  I think in the current climate, and given 
Avivas mistake, its fair to pay Mrs M the repair cost without waiting for the proof of payment. 
As a point of fact, Mrs M has provided this service with the receipt for £99.
Mrs M no longer thinks this resolves her complaint and she has asked for more 
compensation. In support of her request she mentioned a news report of a similar complaint. 
Although Mrs M may think the reported complaint is like hers, my consideration is about the 
specific circumstances of her complaint. A complaint reported in the media is unlikely to 
include all evidence from both sides and it wouldnt be fair or appropriate for me to take that 
into consideration here. Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ms specific circumstances, but I 
dont think Aviva needs to pay any more than it offered.
As a final point, Mrs M wanted Aviva to stop sending her marketing material. Although this 
didnt form part of her original complaint, and I havent looked into it here, Aviva has told us 
that it removed her details from its mailing list.
In summary, I agree that Aviva made a mistake when Mrs M made a claim under her policy, 
but Im satisfied that its offer to resolve the complaint was fair and reasonable. I wont be 
asking Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman