The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim under 
their buildings insurance for damage caused by escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had Essentials Plus buildings and contents insurance with Aviva. The policy 
was in joint names but, for ease, I will refer only to Mr D throughout my decision.
Three months after the start of his policy, Mr D reported an escape of water to Aviva. It sent 
a plumber to investigate under the home emergency element of his policy and the leak was 
fixed. However, Aviva declined his claim under his buildings insurance because it believed 
the damage had been caused before the start of his policy. Mr D disputed this. 
Water damage was still evident in several parts of Mr Ds home. A second plumber identified 
a leak from the boxed-in toilet cistern in the downstairs en-suite. Following that visit, Mr D 
challenged Avivas decision again. It maintained its decision to decline his claim because the 
condition of the bathroom suggested that the water damage had been ongoing for some 
time.
As a resolution to his complaint, Mr D would like Aviva to put him back in the position he was 
in before the leak.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that it was fair for Aviva to rely on 
the loss adjusters (LA) report which said the damage was caused by a long term escape of 
water likely to be from before the policy started. The LA referred to the presence of black 
mould, cracked floor tiles and the damaged floor as evidence to support the opinion. Our 
investigator thought it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions which state that gradual damage over a period of time isnt covered.
Mr D made further comments in support of his complaint. He said a leak wasnt wear and 
tear as defined in his policy and mould could develop quickly. He also provided photos of 
cracked kitchen floor tiles and mould in other parts of his home. He explained that his home 
is poorly ventilated and the conditions could be due to that rather than long term water 
damage. Mr D asked for the second plumbers report to be obtained and considered as 
evidence.
Our investigator considered the additional evidence but remained of the view that Aviva 
hadnt been unfair in its decision to decline Mr Ds claim.
Mr D disagreed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
DRN-1611681What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should point out that Mr D also complained about the work completed by the 
plumbers from the home emergency company. That complaint is being dealt with separately 
so I wont refer to their actions here.
Buildings insurance is there to provide cover for loss caused by a one-off, insured event. 
Damage caused by a one-off escape of water would be an insured event provided that the 
terms and conditions of the policy are met. Aviva declined Mr Ds claim because it believed 
the damage was caused gradually over time so I must decide whether its decision was fair.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ds home was damaged by escape of water. The dispute is about 
when  that damage occurred.
Aviva relied on a LAs expert opinion that the damage occurred over a long period of time, 
and likely started before Mr D bought the policy. Ive looked at all of the evidence, which 
includes the LAs report; photos provided by both the LA and Mr D, and the home 
emergency report from the second visit. In doing so, Ive thought about whether the LAs 
opinion is supported by reference to the documented conditions. Im satisfied that it is. 
The LA refers to extensive black mould visible in several areas which mustve built up over 
time. The report also refers to the cracked floor tiles which are consistent with long term 
water damage. The report concludes that:
in my considered opinion, there has been a long term escape of water from the cistern 
area there were lots of mould marks and tiles starting to come away around the cistern. I 
doubt that this occurred recently and the policy has been incepted just over 2 months ago.
Ive also looked at the report provided by the second plumber. It confirms there was a leak 
behind the toilet and that the boxing is badly damaged and falling apart. But it doesnt give 
any indication of when the leak mightve started. 
Mr D says he didnt see any mould before and, even if it was there, it can build up in as little 
as 24 hours. He also thinks that the mould couldve been caused by poor ventilation. I 
accept what he says. But the photos show extensive mould growth, cracked floor tiles, and 
tiles falling away from the wall. And the opinion of a qualified professional is that the damage 
was caused gradually over time. I have not identified anything which would lead me to doubt 
the expert opinion. 
I can understand that Mr D feels there are other explanations for the extent of the damage 
and I accept that there might be. But, in the absence of an independent expert opinion 
offering an alternative view, I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on the only expert opinion it 
had.
Ive decided that it was fair for Aviva to rely on the LAs opinion so now Ill look at whether it 
was fair to decline the claim for the reasons it gave. The terms and conditions of the policy 
state:Your policy  does not cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a 
period of time. 
The LA concluded that the damage was likely to have happened gradually over a long period 
of time. Therefore, Im satisfied that it was fair for Aviva to apply this exclusion clause and 
decline Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman