DRN-3068735
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she acquired through a conditional sale 
agreement financed by Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
What happened
In December 2019, Miss S acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement. She 
noticed the engine management light was illuminated in February 2020, and took the car to a 
local garage, who diagnosed fault codes relating to the camshaft and starter motor. The 
dealership extended Miss Ss warranty period, no repairs were completed, and the car 
remained drivable. 
Miss S complained to Moneybarn in October 2020 about a recall notice that was issued prior 
to her acquiring the vehicle, and about the faults found at the earlier inspection. Moneybarn 
sent Miss S their final response to her complaint in March 2021. They said the faults 
appeared to be as a result of normal wear and tear, and they didnt uphold her complaint. 
They paid Miss S £50 compensation for the delay in answering her complaint. 
In June 2021, Miss S complained to Moneybarn. She said that the car had broken down and 
was no longer drivable. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service as she was unhappy with the lack of response 
from Moneybarn. In August 2021 Moneybarn sent Miss S their final response to her 
complaint. They said there wasnt any further evidence to show the faults were present at 
the point of sale, they thought the faults were a result of wear and tear, and they thought the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to her. They didnt uphold her 
complaint. They paid Miss S £75 compensation for the delay in answering her complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss S. He thought Moneybarn should arrange for an 
inspection of the vehicle, as Miss S had first raised concerns with the dealer two months into 
the contract period. This inspection was completed, and our investigator reviewed the 
resulting report. He thought that, considering the age and mileage of the vehicle, and the 
result of the inspection, the vehicle was likely to have been of satisfactory quality at the time 
it was supplied to Miss S, so he didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything further. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said the fault codes were evident shortly after she acquired the 
vehicle, and the car was faulty at the time it was supplied to her. She didnt expect to need to 
replace an engine in a car so soon, regardless of how old it was. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement  so we 
can consider a complaint relating to it. Moneybarn as the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £8,000. It was six years old and 
had travelled approximately 115,000 miles at the time of supply. 
When a person acquires a used car with an age and mileage like Miss Ss, its reasonable to 
say that the expectation of quality is lower than that of a new or younger/lower mileage 
second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective of the fact that the 
car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a serious issue sooner, is higher. 
Ive seen evidence that Miss S told the dealership about the engine management light being 
illuminated in February 2020, around two months after she acquired the vehicle. I havent 
seen any evidence of any repairs carried out, and Miss S appears to have continued to use 
the vehicle until it broke down in June 2021. 
The vehicle passed an MOT test in October 2020, and Miss S had been able to drive it 
approximately 10,000 miles in the 10 months between acquiring it, and the MOT being done. 
An inspection of the vehicle was completed in September 2021. That inspection recorded 
the mileage of the vehicle, and Miss S appears to have travelled approximately 15,000 miles 
during her ownership of the vehicle. I understand she hasnt driven it since it broke down in 
June 2021. 
The inspection highlighted faults with the vehicle. There was damage to a cylinder bore, and 
an evident misfire. The exact cause of the fault wasnt determined, but the report goes on to 
explain that the damaged parts are subject to in service wear and tear during the use of the 
vehicle. A number of possible causes of the damage are explored in detail in the report, and 
the report concludes that the faults werent present at purchase and are wear and tear or 
maintenance that have developed since. 
I appreciate the strength of Miss Ss feeling, that there was a problem with the car when she 
acquired it, but Im persuaded by the findings of the report, that is that the current faults have 
occurred as a result of wear and tear of the vehicle over the course of Miss Ss ownership of 
it. Miss S has explained that there was an outstanding recall notice on the car that she wasnt 
aware of when she acquired it. I understand that repairs were completed as set out by the 
manufacturer, and I havent seen any evidence that the recall, or the repairs, have affected 
the faults identified in the report. 
I think, that at six years old and having covered 115,000 miles, Miss Ss car was around the 
age when a reasonable person might expect that some serious repairs may be needed. 
Whilst what has happened is unfortunate, it is the risk of owning an older and higher mileage 
second-hand car like this one. I appreciate that having a car that may need a new engine is 
stressful, and may be an expensive, experience for Miss S. That doesnt mean that 
Moneybarn are responsible for the cost of repairs. 
I find that, on the balance of probabilities, it is more likely than not that Miss Ss car was of 
satisfactory quality at the time that it was supplied. Therefore, although Miss S has 
experienced a fault with her car, Moneybarn are not responsible for the cost of repairing the 
fault.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman