DRN-2343660
The complaint
Mr D complains Gain Credit PLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D took three instalment loans between November and December 2019. Ive included
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan 
NumberLoan Amount Received Date Actual Repayment Date
1 £100 12/11/2019 outstanding
2 £230 11/12/2019 outstanding
3 £200 24/12/2019 outstanding* 
*From what Lending Stream has told us, it has proposed a repayment plan for each loan.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted the first two loans. He also didnt 
think Lending Stream needed to improve upon the offer it had made for loan 3 in its final 
response letter (FRL). In the FRL, Lending Stream accepted that loan 3 shouldnt have been 
lent and agreed to refund any interest and fees Mr D had paid towards this loan together 
with interest at 8% per annum  and then to offset this amount against Mr Ds outstanding 
balance.  
Lending Stream has told us that this offer is still available. 
Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, he has said that:
Lending Stream shouldnt have given him any of the loans because he was in an 
insolvency arrangement at the time; and
Mr D isnt happy to pay anything back to Lending Stream as it didnt check his full 
financial history. Had it done so, it wouldve seen that he shouldnt have been 
granted these loans.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the 
amounts he was asking to borrow without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments, and Mr Ds income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors 
include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his 
instalment loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his 
repayments. Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator 
that Mr D was able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this 
is the case. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£100) was due to be repaid through six monthly instalments with a highest 
repayment of around £34. Mr D declared an income of £1,250 for this loan and when asked 
about his expenses (including any relating to credit) he declared expenditure of £550. 
Lending Stream also carried out a credit check and included any undeclared credit 
commitments it saw, together with additional expenses it felt were reasonable, as a buffer. 
For loan 1 this meant Lending Stream used an overall expenditure of £854 when carrying 
out its checks. Leaving Mr D with around £396 of disposable income.
For loan 2 (£230) Lending Stream carried out similar checks, which suggested Mr D had a 
disposable income of £492 to repay both loans (which had a combined highest repayment of 
around £110).
Considering the level of lending and it being early in the lending relationship, I think the
checks for these two loans went far enough. And based on the income and expenditure that 
Lending Stream considered, Im satisfied that each loan wouldve seemed affordable and 
sustainable for Mr D.Lending Streams credit checks did reveal that Mr D had defaulted on one account in the 
previous 12 months and on 6 accounts in the previous 36 months. There were also over ten 
active accounts although there didnt appear to be any active accounts in arrears within the 
previous twelve months. Whilst the results show some adverse information, I dont think at 
this stage in the lending relationship, and considering what else Lending Stream knew about 
Mr Ds circumstances, the information was significant enough for Lending Stream not to 
have lent, or for further checks to have been carried out prior to lending. 
I appreciate (as Mr D has explained) that he was in an insolvency arrangement when he 
applied for the loans. I can understand why he would question why the loans were lent. This 
activity though isnt shown in Lending Streams credit results. It is important to explain that 
when the loans were lent there wasnt a requirement for Lending Stream to carry out a credit 
check, or where it did complete one, for this to be of a certain standard able to reveal detail 
of a consumers financial difficulties such as an insolvency arrangement.    
The information a consumer might see when they request a copy of their credit file might be 
different to that seen by a lender at the time of application. A lender might only see a small 
portion of the credit file; some data might be missing or anonymised; or the data might not 
be up to date. So, this might explain the difference between what Mr D says about his 
circumstances and what Lending Stream could see in its own credit check results, but I cant 
see how Lending Stream could or should have known about Mr Ds insolvency arrangement.
Im sorry to hear that Mr D was struggling financially and repaying his loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mr Ds full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in 
either the information he provided, or the other information Lending Stream may have seen 
in its credit checks. And it might be that Mr Ds actual financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information, such as bank statement been obtained.
But I dont think it had yet reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on
what Lending Stream knew about Mr D, that meant it needed to complete further checks to 
reveal the information that Mr D says Lending Stream ought to have known about his 
circumstances. So, I dont think that it could or should have known that Mr D was having 
financial difficulties at the time.
So, overall, I dont think it was wrong for Lending Stream to have lent loans 1 and 2. 
loan 3 
I can see that because Lending Stream accepts that it shouldnt have lent loan 3, it has 
agreed to refund any interest and fees Mr D has paid towards the loan together with interest 
at 8% per annum  and then to offset this amount against Mr Ds outstanding balance. It 
should now arrange to do this, if it hasnt already done so.  
It may help if I explain our approach to putting things right for a consumer. If a business has 
made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we decide something has 
gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer should be put back into 
the position they wouldve been in had the error not been made. However, that is not always 
possible, especially in cases that involve lending money.
 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as here, this service must acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. So normally, wed 
expect the consumer to have to repay at least this sum, and we may ask the lender to refund 
any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, for example interest and charges. We might 
also direct an additional interest payment to the consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This has the effect of providing the consumer with an interest free loan. I understand 
this is what Lending Stream has agreed to do for loan 3. 
As Ive said I think it is fair that Mr D repays at least the sum he has been lent. Ive also not 
found that Lending Stream was wrong to lend loans 1 and 2. So for these loans I think 
Lending Stream can pursue the outstanding balance which is owed.   
So, overall, I dont think I can fairly ask Lending Stream to do anymore. Im not clear if Mr D 
has made further payments since Lending Stream made the offer in its final response letter 
but it would be helpful if Lending Stream could provide a breakdown of the repayment history 
for loan 3 including interest and fees paid if Mr D now decides to accept the offer.   
Although I can see in the FRL Lending Stream has agreed to extend support to Mr D through 
an affordable repayment plan, I would remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Mr D 
fairly in connection with any outstanding balance that remains after its offer for loan 3 has 
been taken into account.
Considering everything, I dont think I can fairly ask Lending Stream to do any more.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC didnt make an error when it approved loans 1 and 
2.
 
The offer Gain Credit LLC has made in relation to loan 3 is fair and reasonable and if it 
hasnt done so, it should carry out what it has agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman