DRN-4480857
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt protected him from losing money to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr A has explained that in January 2023 he made a payment of 
£500 using his Lloyds debit card as a result of what he thought was a legitimate investment. 
Mr A made the payment using his Lloyds debit card first to his Binance account, before 
moving the funds on from there to the scammers. 
Mr A subsequently realised hed been scammed. Ultimately, Lloyds didnt reimburse Mr As  
lost funds, and Mr A referred his complaint about Lloyds to us. As our Investigator couldnt 
resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Ive decided to not uphold Mr As complaint for materially the same reasons as our 
Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Let me say, first of all, I have no doubt Mr A has been the victim of a scam here. He has my 
sympathy. Ultimately, however, Mr A has suffered his loss because of fraudsters, and this 
doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from Lloyds. It would only be fair for me to tell 
Lloyds to reimburse Mr A his loss (or part of it) if I thought Lloyds reasonably ought to have 
prevented the payment in the first place, or Lloyds unreasonably hindered recovery of the 
funds after the payment had been made; and if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
Im satisfied Mr A authorised the relevant payment. Lloyds would generally be expected to 
process a payment a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr A is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. That said, as a 
matter of good industry practice Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made 
by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and 
check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments.
In this case, Lloyds didnt pause Mr As payment and speak with him about it before it was 
executed. So, Ive considered whether I think Lloyds reasonably ought to have done so. 
Mr A has said Lloyds did block a subsequent payment of £1,500 to the same merchant, so 
he says the fact it didnt block this previous £500 payment seems inconsistent. Hes pointed 
to Lloyds final response letter to him stating he typically made payments up to £200 only, 
and then, unfairly he says, referencing a one-off payment of £22,000 he made in 2021 as 
making the £500 not unusual. But Im afraid none of these points persuade me that it would 
be fair for me to say Lloyds did something wrong by not pausing the payment for £500 and 
speaking to Mr A before the payment was executed. 
I say this because this case isnt about whether Lloyds should have blocked the £1,500 
payment. Its about whether the £500 payment should have been paused. And whilst I 
appreciate Mr A thinks the £500 payment ought to have warranted intervention from Lloyds 
before it was executed, I dont agree this is reasonable. Mr As account statements show 
previous payments for more than £500. But in any event, as Ive already said, theres a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
allowing customers ready access to their funds. And I cant reasonably say in this case that 
the amount of the payment means Lloyds fraud prevention systems ought to have been 
triggered. I take on board the payment was to Binance. However, not all payments made for 
cryptocurrency are made as a result of a scam. And Im not persuaded this is enough here to 
change things. What this means is that Im satisfied Lloyds did not unreasonably miss an 
opportunity to prevent the payment being made. So I cant hold Lloyds responsible for Mr As 
loss for this reason. 
After the payment was made, I couldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to have done anything 
further until it was aware Mr A had been scammed. Then, because this was a debit card 
payment, the only potential avenue for recovery of the payment would have been through 
the chargeback scheme. However, Mr A made his payment to Binance (and not directly to 
the scammers). This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would be Binance 
(and not the scammers). But Binance provided Mr A with the crypto he paid for. The 
subsequent transfer of the funds onto the scammers from Binance would not give rise to a 
valid chargeback claim through Lloyds. So, I dont think this payment was recoverable 
through Lloyds once it had been made. 
I realise this means Mr A is out of pocket, and Im sorry hes lost money. I understand Mr A 
has said a different bank has refunded him the first payment he lost to the scam (from a 
different bank account). However, I must decide this case against Lloyds on its own merits. 
And Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive explained, that I cant fairly nor reasonably tell Lloyds 
to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it reasonably ought to have prevented 
the payment or been able to recover it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Neil BridgeOmbudsman