DRN-1272880
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about U K Insurance Limited (trading as Green Flag Motoring 
Assistance). She isnt happy about the way it dealt with a claim under her breakdown 
insurance policy after her camper van broke down. 
What happened
Mrs H broke down in June 2019 and called Green Flag for help. Its technician arrived a few 
hours later but as he couldnt repair the camper van he arranged for the van to be recovered. 
Mrs H was stuck at the roadside and was told by Green Flag that its recovery truck was only 
a few miles away. But they remained at the roadside, in a vulnerable position, for about six 
hours. It was eventually decided that Green Flag couldnt recover the camper van as it was 
just over seven metres long (including a rack on the rear of the campervan). So Mrs H had to 
nurse her van, in limp mode, to her sons address and arrange for the van to be repaired 
privately.
Mrs H wasnt happy about this and complained to Green Flag. It maintained that it couldnt 
do anything about the recovery of the vehicle (as it was over seven metres long). But 
acknowledged its service was poor and offered £40 compensation initially, which it increased 
to £100. As Mrs H still wasnt happy she complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her and upheld her complaint. She was of the view 
that Green Flag shouldve dealt with the claim better. It couldve advised Mrs H that the van 
wouldnt be recovered (as it was too long) when its first technician attended. And she 
thought the rack could be removed and then the van could be recovered. Ultimately, she 
thought that £200 compensation was fairer in the circumstances which Mrs H accepted. 
However, Green Flag didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case is for Green Flag to pay Mrs H £200 compensation. Ill explain 
why. 
I know Green Flag feel that it couldnt recover Mrs Hs camper van as it was just over seven 
metres long with the rack on the back. But the actual van size was well under seven metres 
and I see no reason why Mrs H wasnt given the opportunity to remove the rack if she 
wished, especially as she was stuck at the roadside. And I certainly see no reason why she 
was told that the van could be towed, after the first technician measured it, only to be told 
hours later that it couldnt.  
I think these errors alone suggests that the compensation should be increased. Indeed, I 
understand that Mrs H never received Green Flags initial offers of compensation (£40 
initially which was increased to £100). Fortunately, Mrs H was able to get the camper van to 
a point of safety to be looked at without incurring any extra cost. But, at the very least, she 
was clearly left in a vulnerable position for far longer than she shouldve been. So, I think 
£200 compensation, as opposed to £100, feels fairer in the circumstances.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited (trading as Green Flag Motoring Assistance) to pay Mrs H £200 (total) 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman