DRN-3663165
The complaint
Mr F complains about Revolut Ltds actions when reviewing and then closing his account.
What happened
Mr F held an electronic money account with Revolut. In August 2020 they got in touch with 
him through the in-app chat to ask about a payment into his account but did not receive a 
response.
In November 2020 Revolut blocked Mr Fs account while they carried out a review. They 
subsequently took the decision to close the account. The funds that remained on the 
account  including those held in oversea currency  were returned to Mr Fs bank account.
Mr F raised a complaint  saying that the situation was frustrating and inexplicable. He 
asked for details of the exchange rates used to transfer the funds back into Sterling, as he 
no longer had access to these records. Revolut investigated but didnt feel they had done 
anything wrong. They said some of the account activity had triggered concerns, which led to 
the review and closure. They said certain aspects on his usage hadnt conformed to their 
policies and referred him to their terms. 
Unhappy with this, Mr F referred the complaint to our service. Before it was investigated, 
Revolut offered £20 to resolve the complaint, but he declined this.
One of our investigators looked at what happened but didnt feel the complaint should be 
upheld. She said Revolut have legal and regulatory obligations to meet, and they hadnt 
seen anything to suggest the decision to block and then close the account was unfair. She 
said she felt they were entitled to close the complaint immediately.
Mr F responded to say he understood Revolut have regulatory responsibilities, and that the 
location of the transactions would have raised flags. But he doesnt accept the absence of 
explanations, or the failure to engage.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I felt the complaint should succeed. I issued a provisional decision 
that said the following:
Its right that Revolut, like all financial firms, have a right to decide who they do business 
with. They are also entitled to review accounts and block transactions, in line with their legal 
and regulatory requirements. They can also close accounts for any reasonable reason and 
arent under any obligation to explain their reasons for doing so, as long as they comply with 
the terms of the account.
However, the reasoning Revolut choose to close an account should be a reasonable course 
of action based on the circumstances of whats happened. Having reviewed the evidence, 
Im not satisfied Revolut have demonstrated that this is the case. 
Mr Fs account was restricted without notice, then closed several weeks after. But as he had 
no access to the account, nor could he make any transactions, I consider it in practice to be 
closed with no notice.
Revolut havent given Mr F any details about why they restricted and closed the account, 
beyond saying certain aspects of his usage didnt conform to their policies and directing him 
to sections 23 and 24 of their terms. 
Section 23 says that Revolut can block an account to meet their legal obligations. Section 24 
says they may close or suspend an account so long as they give two months notice  which 
is in line with the regulations and general banking practice. But the terms also say they can 
block or close the account with no notice in exceptional circumstances. The terms then list 
the following examples of exceptional circumstances:
if we have good reason to suspect that you are behaving fraudulently or otherwise
criminally;
if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information we need,
or we have good reason to believe that information you have provided is incorrect or
not true;
if you've broken these terms and conditions in a serious or persistent way and you
haven't put the matter right within a reasonable time of us asking you to;
if we have good reason to believe that your use of the Revolut app is harmful to us or
our software, systems or hardware;
if we have good reason to believe that you continuing to use your account could
damage our reputation or goodwill;
if we have asked you to repay money you owe us and you have not done so within a
reasonable period of time;
if you've been declared bankrupt; or
if we have to do so under any law, regulation, court order or ombudsmans
instructions.
Ive thought carefully about these points, and Im not satisfied any of these apply in Mr Fs 
circumstances.
In August 2020 Revolut asked Mr F for information about a payment into his account, and I 
accept Mr F did not respond to these messages. But I also note the last message sent to Mr 
F, sent on 18 August 2020, read [Mr F], I have not heard from you in a little while. When you 
are ready to pick this up again, come back online and one of my colleagues or I will be able 
to assist you further. Have a great day!
A reasonable person reading this would not have taken this to mean any information 
requested was particularly urgent, or even necessary. There is also no suggestion that 
without providing this information the account may be blocked or closed, which is what Id 
reasonably expect to see.
While I appreciate Revolut arent obliged to tell their customers about any blocks or reviews, 
its usual practice for an investigation to take place including asking the customer  in this 
case, Mr F, for further information. Revolut carried out all contact through the in-app chat, 
which I understand is their preferred method. But they also had other contact details for Mr F 
that they could have tried, if they felt the information requested was urgent or essential. 
Revolut did not question Mr F any further around this issue after the account was blocked. It 
would seem unreasonable to suggest Mr F has withheld important or relevant information. 
The account was used sparingly, and there hadnt been any transactions in over a month leading up to the account being blocked. This doesnt suggest to me that any account 
monitoring would have shown there was a pressing and urgent need for the account to be 
blocked or closed.
Having reviewed the evidence supplied by Revolut, Ive seen nothing to satisfy me the 
circumstances met any of the examples given of exceptional circumstances. I cant see any 
reasonable justification for closing Mr Fs account in the manner they did. 
Ive considered further information given to our service by Revolut and having reviewed it, 
Im not satisfied they carried out an appropriate level of due diligence when making the 
decision to close the account. Had they conducted a more thorough investigation, or asked 
further questions of Mr F, Im minded to believe they wouldnt have made the decision to 
close his account. Im satisfied theyve treated him unfairly. 
However, Revolut can make the decision to not have Mr F as a customer, so I wont be 
asking them to reopen the account.
 Ive gone on to think about the impact this overall situation on Mr F. Ive no doubt this was 
an upsetting experience for him and caused him a degree of inconvenience trying to resolve. 
But this is also mitigated by the fact this doesnt appear to be Mr Fs main account  as 
previously mentioned it was used sparingly, mostly for transactions in foreign currency. 
Mr F held foreign currencies on the account, which Revolut converted to Sterling before 
returning to him. He may have been able to transfer these funds to a different currency 
account provider or exchange them at a more preferential rate. As the exchange rate can 
fluctuate over time, and its impossible for me to know when Mr F would have transferred or 
exchanged these balances, I cant say for certain whether he did or did not suffer a financial 
loss. But Mr F seems to have deliberately held the foreign currency in the expectation it 
would be used. I accept it would be inconvenient for Mr F to have to rearrange any foreign 
currency transactions he wanted to make, so while I cant fairly reimburse Mr F for a financial 
loss, I have considered this as part of the overall compensation.
I can also see Mr F requested details of the exchange rates used, and for statements going 
back to the start of 2020, as he had lost access to them when the account was closed. I 
consider these to be reasonable requests, and it seems to be unreasonable that Revolut did 
not respond adequately to them.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut werent reasonable in closing Mr Fs account, and this has 
caused him material distress and inconvenience. Because of that, I think they should pay 
him £250 compensation.
Mr F accepted the provisional decision. Revolut disagreed, saying that they dont believe 
they acted unfairly in closing the account. They said that they only offer online services, so 
they felt the methods of trying to contact Mr F were reasonable. They said that there was 
also some responsibility on Mr F to respond to the request for information, and the requests 
for information would have prompted a reasonable person to attempt to clarify the situation 
with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied with the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision, for 
broadly the same reasons. While Revolut have the right to review and close accounts held with them, they still need to demonstrate that this was a reasonable course of action to take. 
But, from what Ive seen, I dont see this is the case.
As Mr Fs account was fully restricted before the decision to close it was taken, I consider in 
practice it was closed with no notice. under the terms this can only happen in exceptional 
circumstances. Ive re-reviewed the terms, and I cant see that any of the examples of 
exceptional circumstances apply in this instance.
On reviewing the messages sent by Revolut, I agree with them that the initial messages 
make a clear request for further information from Mr F on a particular transaction. And it 
would have been reasonable for Mr F to respond to this at the time. However, it is the final 
message that was sent that I highlighted that would leave a reasonable person with the 
impression that the request wasnt urgent or essential. So, I can see why Mr F didnt respond 
to this any further.
This impression would be reinforced by the fact that it took several months before Revolut 
took any further action. If there were any urgent issues, I would expect them to act much 
quicker than this. There has also been no further comment on why they didnt ask any 
further questions when the account was restricted, which would have been a reasonable 
course of action.
Ive taken on board what Revolut have said about their communication methods, and that 
their standard process would be to contact Mr F using the in-app chat, rather than any 
alternative method available. However, I also note the term explaining how theyd 
communicate with consumer says they will usually communicated with you through the 
Revolut app. This suggests to me that while the app is preferred, there may be occasions 
another method is used. And in any case, that would have been a fair and reasonable 
course of action.
Based on the information given to our service by Revolut I cant see that a reasonable level 
of investigation was carried out before making the decision to close Mr Fs account. Im 
minded that an appropriate level of due diligence would have likely led them to a different 
conclusion. I still cant see a reasonable justification for the actions they took. Im satisfied 
theyve treated Mr F unfairly. 
Mr F didnt use the account regularly, so the disruption caused to his day-to-day spending 
was minimal. But he did hold foreign currency with Revolut, in the expectation that it would 
be used, which they returned to him in Sterling. For the reasons explained in the provisional 
decision I cant say for certain if this caused him a financial loss or not, but I accept that this 
would be inconvenient for him. Ive also seen nothing to suggest Revolut responded to 
Mr Fs reasonable request for details of the exchange rate used, and or a closing statement. 
The service provided to Mr F has fallen well short of what Id consider to be reasonable.
On that basis Im satisfied Revolut have been unreasonable in the way they closed Mr Fs 
account, and hes suffered material distress and inconvenience from this for which 
compensation is appropriate. Overall, after considering the impact on Mr F, I consider an 
amount of £250 to be reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd must:
Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.Supply him with a closing statement, showing the amounts in foreign currency held 
and the exchange rate used to return them.

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman