DRN-3172388
The complaint
Ms N complains about the service she got from Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
following a claim on her car insurance policy.
  
What happened
Ms N was involved in a car accident in March 2021 and made a claim on her car insurance 
policy. Hastings declared Ms Ns car a write-off but she said she wanted to keep the car and 
get it repaired herself.
Ms N says dealing with Hastings was a nightmare. Among other things, Ms N says she 
didnt have her car for two months, that a return phone call Hastings promised her wasnt 
made and email messages she sent went unanswered for some time. She says she wasnt 
told by Hastings shed have to pay a fee to retain her car. And she says Hastings cancelled 
her policy by mistake.
Hastings has accepted there have been failings in its service and initially it offered Ms N £50 
compensation for these. Hastings then subsequently increased its compensation offer by an 
additional £125 for its service failings, including for not telling Ms N what its retention fee 
would be sooner than it did.  
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms N brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it. He thought Hastings should pay Ms N an additional £50 in compensation for 
the impact cancelling her policy by mistake had had on her. While he didnt think it was 
unfair of Hastings to charge Ms N a retention fee, he said it shouldve made this clear to    
Ms N sooner than it did. So he thought the additional compensation of £125 Hastings had 
offered Ms N was fair.
Both Ms N and Hastings disagree with our investigators view. Ms N wants the retention fee 
waived. Hastings says the compensation it has offered Ms N is generous and sufficiently 
covers the momentary upset the policy cancellation would have caused her.
So Ms Ns complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ns complaint in part.
Ms N describes dealing with Hastings as a nightmare, maddening and time-consuming. 
Looking at the timeline of events, I can see there were some delays in assessing the 
damage to Ms Ns car and reaching a settlement figure for her claim. From what Ive seen, 
not all of these were down to Hastings  there were times when it was waiting for responses 
from Ms N or from the garage where shed taken her car after the accident. 
But there were some delays by Hastings, particularly in getting Ms Ns car independently 
valued. And Hastings says some of its communications with Ms N were poor, which caused 
further delays  it didnt make a promised call-back and some of Ms Ns emails went 
unanswered for some days. Hastings also says it wasnt clear with Ms N about the amount 
she would have to pay to retain her car after it had declared it a total loss. Finally, Hastings 
accepts it shouldnt have cancelled Ms Ns policy. But it also says it reinstated the policy 
quickly and, because Ms Ns car was being repaired at the time, the cancellation had no 
impact on her.
Dealing with an insurance claim is always going to involve a policyholder in some distress 
and inconvenience. But its clear Ms N found her experience with Hastings particularly 
frustrating and inconvenient, as Ive described. I think Hastings has gone some way to 
acknowledging this by paying Ms N compensation of £175 so far. 
But I think Hastings needs to go further. It doesnt accept the policy cancellation had 
anything other than a momentary impact on Ms N, for the reasons its given. I dont agree. 
From what Ms N has said it contributed to her overall feeling that nothing was smooth and 
straightforward with her claim. And also from what she says, Ms N had to call Hastings 
about a payment it had asked for following the policy cancellation  and this was seemingly 
another mistake by Hastings. In these circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to direct 
Hastings to pay Ms N an additional £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused her (on top of the compensation of £175 it has already paid her).
I dont, however, think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Hastings to waive a retention 
fee for Ms Ns car. Normally, when a business settles a total loss claim under a car 
insurance policy it retains the salvage (so it takes possession of the car in its damaged 
state). A business will often have some sort of arrangement with a salvage dealer for 
disposing of the salvage. And it will get a payment for the car from the salvage dealer for it 
doing this, in accordance with an agreed contract. 
But, as in Ms Ns case, there are times when a consumer wants to retain the damaged car. 
And most insurers will agree to this, as Hastings has here. When an insurer allows a 
consumer to retain a damaged car, it will usually deduct what it would have got when 
disposing of the salvage under its contract arrangement with a salvage dealer from the 
amount for which it settles the claim. In Ms Ns case, her car insurance policy says Hastings 
will pay the pre-accident market value of her car and can take possession of it if its a total 
loss. So I think it wouldve been fair of Hastings to deduct a salvage amount for Ms Ns car 
from the amount for which it settled her claim.
In Ms Ns case, a salvage amount wasnt deducted from her settlement amount. And 
Hastings didnt give Ms N a figure for the salvage as  and when  it shouldve (and for 
which it has already compensated her). I can, though, see from an email Hastings sent Ms N 
in April 2021 that it told her once shed agreed a valuation, it would let her know how much 
the buy back deduction would be. Its quite possible Ms N overlooked this while she was 
dealing with the rest of her claim  but I think Hastings made her aware there would be a 
cost to her in retaining her car. 
Taking all of this into account, I think Hastings approach in asking Ms N to pay a fee for 
retaining her car is fair and reasonable and in line both with industry practice and the terms 
of Ms Ns car insurance policy. 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I direct Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Ms N £50 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. I understand Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited has already made a compensation payment of £175 to Ms N  
but if it hasnt made this payment already, I direct that it should.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman