DRN-3435865
The complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay.
Miss M is represented by family members but for ease of reference I have referred to Miss M 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In June 2018, Miss M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Miss M made an initial payment of £830 and was required to make 59 monthly 
repayments of £624. The total repayable under the agreement was £37,657.
Miss M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. She notes that her bank 
statements showed payments to several debt collection companies and that her income was 
seasonal. It is also noted that Miss M is a vulnerable adult. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and receiving 
Miss Ms bank statements to confirm her income.
Miss M also complains that the initial loan amount was for a higher amount than the value of 
the car resulting in immediate negative equity; that Moneybarn didnt provide the information 
in a timely way in response to requests made on her behalf; and that the collection of the car 
was delayed by several months.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Miss M.
Moneybarn didnt agree that total payments of £3,826 for a vehicle Miss M had travelled 
40,000 miles in was appropriate. It said it allowed Miss M to retain the vehicle while her 
complaint was being investigated as was standard practice. It said it had instructed recovery 
agents to collect the vehicle in October 2020, but the vehicle wasnt able to be located. 
Miss M then contacted the recoveries agent to say she was intending to proceed with a 
consent order and following this information was provided to the recovery agents that this 
complaint had been raised with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My provisional conclusions
I issued provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, I thought Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Miss M about her ability to repay. It completed a credit 
check and received three months worth of bank statements. However, this didnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. 
The loan required monthly repayments of £624 over five years and I thought it would 
have been proportionate to consider the details of the income information provided in 
the bank statements. These showed that Miss Ms income came from different 
sources and varied over the three months. I thought it would have been reasonable 
for Moneybarn to have asked further questions about this. This might have identified 
the seasonable nature of Miss Ms income.
Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of the results from its credit check but did provide a 
review of Miss Ms bank statements for the months leading up to the agreement. 
These statements showed that Miss M was already struggling financially. In the three 
months leading up to the agreement, Miss Ms total debits were more than her total 
credits, she had four returned direct debits and had an outstanding payday loan. 
Miss M was also making payments to several debt collection companies. I thought 
this gave a clear indication that Miss M wasnt in a position to afford the repayments 
towards the new agreement without experiencing difficulty or having to borrow 
further. Moneybarn therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
Although Miss M agreed to voluntarily surrender the car in September 2020, this was 
put on hold while her complaint was investigated. Miss M continued to use the car 
and I understood that the mileage at the time of the provisional decision was just over 
73,000 (mileage recorded in the agreement was 24,382). This delay meant that this 
issue has continued to cause Miss M stress over an extended period.
Moneybarn responded to my provisional decision and reiterated its concerns that full 
consideration hadnt been given to the mileage of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the information gathered raised concerns 
about the reliability of Miss Ms income and had this been considered in more detail 
Moneybarn would likely have realised the variability and seasonal nature of Miss Ms 
income. The information in Miss Ms bank statements raised concerns that she was 
struggling financially. She was paying out more than she was earning, had returned direct 
debits payments, an outstanding pay day loan and was making payments to several debt 
management companies. I think this showed that providing further credit to Miss M at that 
time wasnt responsible, therefore I uphold this complaint.
I note the comment Moneybarn has made about the usage Miss M has had of the car and 
the mileage covered. I have considered this and factored it into my assessment. However, 
given the unique circumstances of this complaint, noting Miss Ms vulnerability, her financial 
situation and the distress the issue is causing, I think the redress set out in my provisional 
decision is reasonable.
Putting things right
In this case I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending. Miss M is a 
vulnerable adult and while Moneybarn may not have been aware of Miss Ms vulnerability at 
the time the agreement was provided, as I think further checks would have shown her to 
have been in financial difficulty when the agreement was provided I now have to consider the additional stress and anxiety Miss M has been caused by this irresponsible lending 
decision.
We treat each case based on its merits. One approach in this type of situation would be for 
Miss M to return the car and pay a fair usage value. However, Miss M is already in financial 
difficulty, it has been explained the nature of her income is seasonal and much lower than 
included in the assessment, and that she is already paying money to debt management 
companies. This approach would likely result in further amounts for Miss M to pay and it isnt 
clear these would be affordable given Miss Ms circumstances. What is clear is the anxiety 
this complaint is causing, and I think this needs to be considered and a solution is found that 
draws a conclusion to this situation.
I can see there have been delays in the process of dealing with this complaint and providing 
the options for Miss M and these have added to the stress this issue has caused. There has 
been a delay in the car being returned while the complaint has been investigated. Miss M 
has had the use of the car during this period but Moneybarn was aware of her financial 
difficulties and that she said she would voluntarily surrender the car in September 2020. So, 
it doesnt seem right that she is then penalised for the delay in this issue being finalised.
We have considered the amount that is likely to be received from the sale of the car and the 
amount that Miss M has paid to date and as these together total an amount around the 
original purchase price of the car, I think in this specific case the recommendation made by 
our adjudicator and set out in my provisional decision gives a fair and reasonable outcome.
Moneybarn should:
keep all the payments (including any deposit paid) that they have received from 
Miss M;
take back the car with no additional costs to Miss M;
write off any outstanding debts on the account; and
remove adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman