DRN-3725236
The complaint
Mr M complains TransUnion International UK Limited havent sent him a copy of his credit 
file despite him asking on multiple occasions.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about it. Ive 
copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr M was a victim of domestic and economic abuse. In order to put things right, he asked 
TransUnion to disassociate him on his credit file from his abuser  and while making these 
requests, asked for a copy of his credit file on multiple occasions.
I want Mr M to know that Ive carefully read all information hes provided to our service for 
this complaint  so Im aware my brief description of his circumstances doesnt come close 
to explaining what hes been through. But this decision is published on our website, so Ive 
done this out of respect for his privacy, rather than because Ive not carefully thought about 
everything hes told us.
TransUnion said no complaint regarding Mr Ms unhappiness with his credit file had been 
raised with them.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and overall felt TransUnion should provide a 
copy of Mr Ms credit file to him and pay him £150 compensation for not providing it when he 
previously asked for it.
I should add I can see a separate issue was raised against a lender, who Ill refer to as T, 
but it was previously decided as this debt hasnt been written off the account would remain 
on Mr Ms credit file. So, for clarity, this decision doesnt consider that matter.
In their initial response, TransUnion replied and simply said they dont agree with the 
outcome. Generally, its helpful if either party explains why they disagree along with any 
appropriate evidence, as this is additional information our Investigators are required to 
consider before passing a case forward for an Ombudsman to review. And, its in both 
partys interest to do this, as further information may lead to our Investigator changing their 
outcome.
After requesting clarification, TransUnion told our Investigator they didnt agree as this 
wasnt the subject of the complaint (though, theyve didnt say what was the subject of the 
complaint or provide any evidence to back up their comments here as Id usually expect). 
They went on to say they couldnt provide copies of credit reports to our service as this is a 
breach of security  and couldnt trace any contact from Mr M asking for a copy of his credit 
file.
Our Investigator found an example of when Mr M had asked for a copy of his credit report as 
part of this existing complaint  which TransUnion hadnt apparently actioned. 
In response to being told the case was being passed to an Ombudsman, TransUnion replied 
on 29 July 2022 and said theyd been unable to locate emails from Mr M to them  though 
they could see they were sent. TransUnion have accepted some emails were sent to them, 
but not received by them through no fault of their customers. As a result, they said they were 
happy to arrange for a report to be sent but wanted to reiterate this wasnt part of the initial 
complaint to them which was about disputed data on his credit file.
Our Investigator thanked TransUnion for saying theyd send Mr M a copy of the report  and 
asked for a copy to be sent to us as well so we could see what was actually being reported.
Our Investigator reiterated Mr Ms difficult circumstances, and ultimate desire to be 
disassociated from his abuser on any accounts where that was possible. She also explained 
she appreciated whats been said by TransUnion about emails not being received and the 
subject of the complaint, but we only sent one example to prove the point there were others. 
She asked TransUnion to get back about sending the report, and whether they would now 
agree to the £150 compensation as well. 
At the same time, our Investigator explained to Mr M that TransUnion were happy to send a 
copy of the report  and whether hed accept that plus £150 compensation to resolve the 
matter. Mr M replied 10 August (close to two weeks after TransUnion said theyd send him a 
copy of the credit report) to explain hed not received that yet but would accept the £150 to 
draw this matter to a close.
On 24 August 2022, TransUnion replied and said theyd sent a copy of the report to Mr M by 
recorded delivery but couldnt send us a copy of the report  saying it contained extremely 
sensitive information. They didnt make any comment on the £150 compensation wed 
awarded.
Our Investigator chased them about the £150 compensation but given how long this has 
been going on for, as they didnt reply by the latest deadline the case has been passed to 
me to decide. Im pleased to see on 1 September 2022 Mr M confirmed hed received his 
credit file.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out what Im not considering, and what I am considering.
What Im not considering
Im aware Mr M has raised the account with T on multiple occasions in his responses on this 
complaint. But, as explained by our Investigators that remains an open debt that is due, so 
unfortunately, the debt will remain on Mr Ms credit file until its satisfied. My understanding is 
the debt is in joint names, which means a disassociation for that debt cant be processed, as 
its held in the name or Mr M and the person he says is his abuser.
Likewise, I cant consider any issues regarding any other disassociations Mr M may feel is 
required having finally been sent a copy of his credit file. Thats because TransUnion, like all 
financial businesses, are required up to eight weeks in which to investigate a complaint. As 
things stand, Mr M cant have complained about any other disassociations and TransUnions 
actions, as he wouldnt have been aware of them because he hadnt received his credit file 
until recently. So, this decision doesnt address those issues  a new complaint would need 
to be set up for any remaining concerns Mr M has once hes reviewed his credit file.What I am considering  and why
Ive noted TransUnions concerns regarding the scope of the investigation were carrying out 
 and specifically that were focusing on the credit file not having been provided.
Its worth noting Mr M has provided a substantial amount of information, much of it 
duplicated, and TransUnion havent replied in full to all questions, despite reminders by our 
Investigators. Because of that, I think its unlikely Ive been provided with all of the contact 
between Mr M and TransUnion. So, Ill set out all of the contact I can see, and Ive added my 
thoughts to each contact as well:
8 May 2020  Mr M writes to TransUnion (amongst other parties) setting out the 
circumstances and providing a brief history. In this, he asks if there is further 
damage due to happen to his credit file. He lists out contact from another creditor he 
says he wasnt aware of and says apparently this was going to stay on his credit file 
for six years but he didnt know anything about it.
I think for this contact its clear Mr M is concerned about not just the current issues he knows 
about his credit file, but also about future debts he might be made aware of later on. As a 
credit reference agency, TransUnion will be better placed than Mr M to know whats needed 
to sort this out and to help guide him in what to do. Ive not seen anything to suggest they 
replied and offered to provide a copy of his credit report, which would appear to be the 
obvious next step following this email as itd allow him to know what else is being reported  
and to then take action to resolve that.
19 October 2021  Mr M replying to TransUnions email where hed asked for a copy 
of his credit file, theyd replied asking for some of his details, and this was his reply 
with his name, address history for the last six years and date of birth
At this time asking for a copy of his credit report, when itd not been provided.
23 January 2022  Mr M to TransUnion direct, and the email starts I received this 
email response from yourselves (whom I have yet to receive a credit report from, 
also I have asked)
Yet again asking for a copy of the report and expressing dissatisfaction he hadnt received it.
7 March 2022  Mr M writes directly to TransUnion, to ask for a disassociation from 
his abuser in relation to the account with T. As part of this, he says hes also 
requested a copy of his TransUnion credit report but is yet to receive one.
Another request for the credit report not acted on by TransUnion.
30 April 2022  Mr M has provided a screenshot showing hed given TransUnion 
information, and they were looking to provide an online report  something Mr M says 
he never received.
And finally, an online effort by Mr M to get the report which, as Ive said, hes told us was 
never provided.
I think its important to remember the context of why Mr M is asking for his credit file. Hes 
set out in quite clear detail in his first contact with TransUnion that hes been the victim of 
domestic and economic abuse. In such circumstances, Id expect TransUnion to have really 
stepped up to provide an appropriate level of support to Mr M.From the information Ive listed out above, its clear Mr M is complaining about the lack of 
support from TransUnion. This includes the lack of providing a copy of the credit file  which 
is key information needed for Mr M to move on with matters. I appreciate TransUnion feel 
the only issue raised to them was about disassociations, but I dont agree that is a fair 
reflection of the contacts Ive listed out above. These contacts are largely in relation to the 
credit file, and there is more, but I think these contacts are sufficient evidence of the issues 
Mr M has been having over a protracted period.
My thoughts on these issues
Having now set out why its appropriate for our service to consider these issues, I now need 
to give my thoughts on them. As a reminder, our Investigator asked TransUnion to send 
Mr M a copy of his credit file and pay £150 for not doing so earlier.
Im pleased TransUnion have now sent Mr M a copy of his credit report. At the time of this 
decision, Mr M has now received it, and raised some further concerns. As Ive set out above, 
these will need to be addressed in a separate complaint.
In relation to the compensation Mr M said hed accept the £150  and TransUnion never 
explicitly replied on to say whether they agreed with it or not (beyond disputing that we could 
look at the credit file issues).
Having reflect on this, I dont think £150 is sufficient compensation. I say that because I think 
its clear in the very first contact, Mr M needed quite a bit of support to get matters back on 
track. Id expect TransUnion to have realised this needed to include sending Mr M a copy of 
his credit report so he could determine what other action he needed to take. Instead, all I can 
see is repeated efforts by Mr M asking for a copy of the credit file, and TransUnion not being 
proactive and taking action on that.
Given the seriousness of Mr Ms personal circumstances, the amount of time its taken to get 
to this point, I think the impact is better reflected by a compensation payment of £400. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M replied and said hed read my report and was happy to proceed.
TransUnion didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ms reply as an acceptance of the outcome I reached. So, as hes accepted my 
outcome, and TransUnion didnt reply, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome Ive 
reached and still think £400 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint, and require 
TransUnion International UK Limited to pay Mr M £400 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman