DRN-3410783
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy because U K Insurance Limited, which Ill just shorten to UKI, wouldnt 
replace her sofa bed after it got ripped. She said UKI cancelled her home insurance policy. 
Even though Miss Cs policy had another companys name on it, and some other companies 
spoke with Miss C, or emailed her, Ill only talk about UKI. Thats because UKI is responsible 
for anything those other companies did about the claim. When I talk about UKI, Im including 
any company which might have looked at Miss Cs claim.
What happened
Miss C told UKI her sofa bed was ripped. UKI asked Miss C to send it some photos of the 
sofa bed.
At first, UKI didnt get anything from Miss C, so it didnt do anything about her claim. When 
Miss C sent it a photo, UKI didnt think the sofa bed needed replacing. UKI said the rip could 
be repaired.
Miss C wasnt happy about that because shed been unable to sleep on her sofa bed. She 
told UKI she had been sleeping at family and friends houses.
UKI investigated the claim some more and found out that Miss C had made other claims on 
previous insurance policies but hadnt told UKI about these when she bought the policy with 
them.
UKI looked at what it wouldve done if Miss C had told it about her other claims. UKI doesnt 
sell insurance to everyone who wants it and it told Miss C that she didnt fit its rules. So UKI 
said if Miss C had told it about her other claims, it wouldnt have sold her the insurance 
policy. 
UKI cancelled Miss Cs policy and treated it like it had never existed. 
The rules for insurance companies allows UKI to do that.
Because UKI said it was like there had never been a policy in place, it meant UKI didnt 
repair or replace Miss Cs sofa bed.
Miss C told UKI she wasnt happy that it cancelled her policy. And she wasnt happy that UKI 
didnt replace her sofa bed.
Our investigator talked to Miss C and UKI about the complaint. She told Miss C she was 
sorry about what had happened, but she didnt think what UKI had done was wrong. Our 
investigator didnt think UKI needed to replace Miss Cs sofa bed because she didnt have a 
policy.
Miss C wasnt happy about that, so Ive had a look at her complaint and made a decision 
about it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry about what happened to Miss Cs sofa bed, and the distress she felt about the 
whole claim and policy cancellation. But Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The sofa bed claim
Looking first at the sofa bed, both Miss C and UKI agree the sofa bed was ripped. But Miss 
C doesnt think UKI dealt with her claim as quickly as it shouldve done, and she didnt agree 
that it could be repaired.
I agree that UKI didnt deal with the claim quickly, but Ive seen that was because it didnt get 
the photos of the damage to the sofa bed from Miss C after it asked for them. I wouldnt have 
expected UKI to do anything about the claim until it had seen the damage and agreed that 
Miss Cs policy covered it.
I dont think it was wrong for UKI to wait until it had everything it needed before deciding 
whether it could accept Miss Cs claim.
When UKI saw the damage, it thought the sofa bed could be repaired. But Miss C asked UKI 
to replace it as she didnt think it could be repaired and told UKI she wasnt able to sleep on 
it while it was damaged, so shed been sleeping at family and friends homes, or a hotel. 
Miss C thought UKI should pay for her hotel.
UKI didnt think it was necessary for Miss C to sleep elsewhere because the rip in the fabric 
didnt mean the sofa bed couldnt be used. I think UKI made a fair comment about that, so I 
dont think it needed to pay Miss Cs hotel costs.
But Miss C still wanted a replacement.
Before UKI did anything else to settle Miss Cs claim, it noticed that some of the information 
on her policy wasnt right. UKI saw that she had made three other claims in the last three 
years, but she had said shed only made one other claim. 
The insurance policy purchase
Miss C said she bought the policy online using a price comparison website and it wasnt her 
fault that she didnt know about the other claims. 
UKI sold the policy to Miss C using the information she gave on the online form. Its 
reasonable to think Miss C couldve spoken to someone at UKI if she wasnt sure that she 
had provided all the information that was being asked. 
The information Miss C gave was wrong, but I havent seen anything to make me think she 
did that on purpose. 
Ive looked at what UKI wouldve done if Miss C had given the right information. UKI doesnt 
sell policies to anyone who has made three claims in the last three years. So, UKI didnt 
have a fair chance to say it didnt want to sell the policy to Miss C.Insurance rules allow UKI to cancel the policy and treat it like it never existed if it wouldnt 
have sold the policy in the first place. Thats what UKI did. And because of that, it meant 
Miss C didnt have an insurance policy to make a claim on. 
Because the rules allow that, and because it says the same thing in the policy papers, I dont 
think it was unfair for UKI to cancel Miss Cs policy. UKI didnt accept Miss Cs claim for her 
sofa bed because she didnt have a policy. I dont think that was unfair either, because UKI 
wouldnt have sold Miss C a policy if it had known shed made other claims.
The processing of the claim
I know Miss C was unhappy about UKI using other companies to work on her claim. Ive 
looked at whether thats something UKI is allowed to do, and it is. UKI gave that information 
to Miss C in her policy papers, so I dont think UKI treated her unfairly by using other 
companies.
Communication
The last thing Ill talk about is Miss Cs unhappiness that UKI contacted her by email. She 
struggles with emails and would rather talk, or listen, to the information. 
Ive looked at everything Miss C sent to me, and everything UKI sent to me. I couldnt find 
anywhere that Miss C told UKI she didnt want emails. In fact, Ive seen that she asked for 
emails to begin with.
I know UKI is aware now that Miss C doesnt want emails, but I dont think it was wrong to 
send them before it knew about Miss Cs preference.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
So, I wont be asking U K Insurance Limited to do anything else about Miss Cs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman