DRN-1696000
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on his car 
under his motor insurance policy after it was involved in an accident. He wants it to increase 
its settlement offer.
 What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident and Admiral deemed his car to be a total loss. Admiral 
said the cars pre-accident market value was £2,000. But Mr W said it was £5,000. Admiral 
replied that an independent assessor thought a fully restored model was worth £5,000 or 
more, but it said Mr Ws car wasnt fully restored. It said the assessor had found the car to be 
in average condition for its age. Admiral said Mr W had overpaid for his car. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt find Mr Ws 
car in the motor-trade guides following to our approach. But he saw that it was generally 
advertised online at £5,000 or more. Admirals independent assessor had also valued the 
car at £5,000. Hed reduced the valuation because of defects he pointed out. But the 
investigator thought the assessor had said the car was in average condition for its age and 
type. Mr W had bought the car a few days before the incident for £4,950. But there were 
further examples of similar cars advertised for £4,000. So the investigator thought Admiral 
should place this valuation on the car. 
Admiral replied that it had relied on the assessors report and examples of similar models. 
So it thought its offer was fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ws current personal circumstances. I can understand that hes 
unhappy with Admirals decision and that he wants a fair valuation for his car. 
Ive seen evidence provided by Mr W that he paid £4,950 for the car a few days before the 
incident. Admiral said his evidence wasnt acceptable. But I can see that Mr W valued the 
car at £5,000 when he took out his policy. He bought the car privately through a bank 
transfer. Hes been able to provide a receipt from the previous owner and evidence of the 
transfer made on the same date. So I think in these circumstances Mr W has provided 
sufficient evidence to show what he paid for the car. 
There are policies for classic or rare cars where an agreed value is provided in the case of 
total loss. But Mr Ws policy provides for the market value of his car at the time of its total 
loss. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we usually obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
In Mr Ws case, the motor-trade guides we use didnt provide a valuation for Mr Ws car. So I 
think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on an independent assessor to provide a valuation 
of the car.  The assessor noted problems with the respray of the car, some corrosion and 
missing trim. He said he regarded the car as a non-restored model for valuation purposes 
and provided advertised examples to support this. And he thought the car was in average 
condition for its age and mileage. 
The assessor said that because of these problems the car was worth much less than Mr W 
had paid for it. He said the car was worth £2,000 rather than £5,000 for a fully restored 
model, though I cant see how he priced a deduction of £3,000. However, I would usually say 
that it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the expert evidence provided by an independent 
assessor. But in the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I dont think this would be 
reasonable. 
This is firstly because Mr W paid £4,950 for his car three days before the incident. I can 
understand that Admiral feels that Mr W had over-paid for his car. But, arguably, this was its 
market value at the time. So I dont think it would fair to not consider this. 
Secondly, both Mr W and Admiral have relied on advertised examples of similar cars to 
support their arguments. Mr W said that before he bought his car he researched similar cars 
in similar condition available for sale. He said these were valued between £4,000 and 
£7,000. Hes provided further examples of advertised cars in good condition for over £4,000. 
The independent assessor said restored cars were advertised for £5,000 or more, even 
though he provided an example of one for sale at £4,000. Mr W said he thought his car was 
in excellent condition. He hadn't noticed the faults found by the assessor. So I think, 
arguably, Mr W did over-pay for his car but I cant say to what extent. However, from what 
Ive seen, similar cars would cost at least £4,000. 
Mr Ws policy provides for the cost of replacing his car with a similar one at the time of its 
loss. I think Admirals valuation hasnt reasonably taken into account all the evidence to 
establish its market value, that is, what Mr W paid for it and the cost of similar cars. 
Putting things right
So in order for Mr W to buy a like for like replacement, I think Admiral should reasonably 
offer Mr W £4,000 in settlement of his claim (less his policy excess).
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr W £4,000 (less his policy excess) in settlement of his claim for the total 
loss of his car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman