DRN-1504810
 
Complaint
Mr S complains that Virgin Money plc didnt make him aware that a payment was due on his 
credit card and then acted unfairly by applying interest and charges to the account.
Background
Mr S opened a credit card account with Virgin. He applied online for the account and then 
used it to make a purchase. He says that he didnt receive a statement from Virgin and so he 
didnt know that a payment was due. Virgin contacted him by text message after the due 
date. When he phoned Virgin it told him about the missed payment but didnt tell him that 
interest and charges had been applied to his account.
Mr S paid the missing payment. He subsequently paid the interest and charges and closed 
the account.
He complained to Virgin about what had happened. It says that when he applied for the 
credit card hed been told that statements would be made available online. It also says that 
hed been sent an email, at the time, to tell him that the statement was available. 
When he missed the payment Virgin said the terms and conditions for the account permitted 
it to withdraw the promotional rate of interest and apply its standard interest rate and the 
charges as set out in its tariff. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with this response and so he complained to our service. He says that 
he shouldnt have had to tell Virgin to suspend the interest rate while his complaint was 
being investigated. He wants the interest and charges to be refunded to him and he wants 
compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused. Mr S also says hes 
concerned Virgin may have recorded adverse information about his account with credit 
reference agencies.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought, based on the evidence shed seen, 
that she couldnt fairly say Virgin hadnt sent Mr S statements in the way thatd been agreed. 
She also said hed been informed of the interest and charges that would apply if he missed a 
payment. So, she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator, I wont be upholding this complaint.
Ive looked at the information Mr S was given when he applied for the credit card. It was an 
online application. The information on the application screen stated that the card would automatically be set up with online statements. It also said that paper statements could be 
requested after the account was set up if preferred.  
After the account was opened Virgin sent an email to Mr S to give him further information. In 
the email Virgin lists the top six questions its asked about the card. One of those questions 
is how do I make payments? The answer given sets out that the first statement will be 
available to view in the App and through the Online Service. If the card is used to make a 
purchase then the first payment will be due twenty days after the first statement date.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions provided to Mr S. They say that the statement 
can be viewed using the online service but paper statements can be requested if preferred. 
Mr S didnt request paper statements until after hed missed the payment.
So, Im satisfied Mr S was informed that statements would be made available online and he 
didnt request a paper statement until after the first statement had been issued.
Virgin says it sent an email to Mr S when the statement was produced reminding him that it 
was now available to view. Its records show that an email was sent on the day that the 
statement was produced. I can see that it held the email address which Mr S had provided to 
it and theres no evidence that any emails it sent to Mr S were bounced back. So, Im 
satisfied on balance, that Virgin sent an email notification to Mr S when the statement was 
issued.
The statement made it clear that a payment was due and what the due date was. The 
payment wasnt made on or before the due date. Mr S paid the missed payment after he 
received a second text from Virgin reminding him that a payment was due.
Mr S was told when he applied for the account and in the terms and conditions that if he 
missed a payment Virgin would withdraw the promotional rate of interest with effect from the 
start of that statement period. Although Mr S did make the payment, he paid it after the due 
date. So, I dont think Virgin acted unfairly, after the payment was missed, when it withdrew 
the promotional rate and applied interest and charges, as set out in its tariff and terms and 
conditions.
The charges and interest appeared on the next statement that was sent to Mr S. He says 
that he shouldnt have had to ask Virgin to suspend the interest or charges whilst it 
investigated his complaint. But, it did agree to do this, even though I dont think that it 
wouldve been required to suspend interest whilst the complaint was ongoing.
Ive also thought about what Mr S has said about adverse information being reported to 
credit reference agencies. Mr Ss credit report hasnt been made available to me, so I 
havent been able to look at any information that may have been reported. 
The terms and conditions state that where a payment is missed Virgin will let credit 
reference agencies know and this could make it difficult to get credit in the future. So, Im 
satisfied that the terms and conditions made it clear that Virgin could report information 
about the missed payment to credit reference agencies.
Having considered everything here, whilst I can understand that Mr S was upset by whatd 
happened and concerned about how this might affect his credit report, I dont think Virgin 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. I dont require it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Virgin Money plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman