DRN-3226172
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc wouldnt send him bank statements, and proceeded to 
close his savings account. Hed like TSB to open a basic bank account for him. 
What happened
Mr B had a savings account with TSB. 
Mr B wrote to TSB to ask for statements regarding his account. However TSB didnt provide 
the statements to Mr B  they explained the signature on the letter didnt match the signature 
they have recorded for him and the address doesnt match what they have on file. 
On 27 January 2020 TSB decided to issue Mr B with 60 days notice to close his account  
they explained that the account wasnt suitable for him. TSB advised that the linked savings 
account could only be operated in branch. And as Mr B was in custody he wasnt able to do 
this.  
Mr B wasnt happy with TSBs decision so complained to the bank. But they didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr B complained to our service. He explained he needed access to his funds, and asked if 
TSB could transfer some money to his solicitor and the rest to him in custody. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. 
He contacted TSB to see how they could give Mr B access to his funds  TSB explained that 
the only way for Mr B to access his funds was in branch by providing identification. Mr B 
asked for his funds to be paid in two cheques, one to his prison account and the other to his 
solicitor.  
Initially TSB explained that they werent able to make two payments from the account, 
however following further review they agreed to issue Mr B with two cheques on 
6 October 2020. On 20 October 2020 TSB closed Mr Bs account and issued two cheques 
as hed requested.
Mr B also requested for TSB to provide him with a basic bank account  however the bank 
explained that this is something that Mr B will need to arrange directly with the prison, and 
whichever bank the prison has a relationship with. 
Our investigator thought that TSB acted fairly in closing Mr Bs account. He thought that, as 
TSB had explained the account wasnt suitable for Mr Bs needs. Therefore the bank was 
entitled to close it. And he thought theyd acted fairly in refusing to provide Mr B with a basic 
bank account. 
Mr B wasnt happy with our investigators opinion  and he thought that TSBs refusal to 
provide him with a basic bank account wasnt fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs initial complaint to our service focused on TSB refusing to provide him with bank 
statements for his savings account. Then their decision to close his account. 
Mr B now accepts that the savings account he had wasnt suitable for him because it could 
only be operated in branch and not by phone or post. But, as a solution hed like TSB to 
provide him with a basic bank account. 
Its my role to consider whether TSBs decision to refuse this is fair and reasonable. 
I realise that Mr B will be disappointed by my conclusion, however Im satisfied TSB havent 
acted unfairly here. As Mr Bs currently in custody, he needs to apply for a basic bank 
account via the prison hes located in  and I cant say its unreasonable for TSB to refuse 
his application via different means. I understand that the prison Mr Bs currently in doesnt 
have a relationship with TSB, therefore the application cant be made. I cant hold TSB 
responsible for this, and therefore wont be concluding theyve acted unfairly. 
Mr Bs argues that the Prison Service Instruction (PSI 44/2011) shows hes entitled to a 
basic bank account. Its not my role to make a decision on this, or to judge whether his 
current prison is acting fairly in providing him access to external banking services  instead 
Im considering if TSB have acted fairly in refusing to open a basic bank account for Mr B. I 
appreciate this will disappointing to Mr B but for the reasons Ive already outlined I cant say 
theyve acted unfairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman