DRN-3715111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Santander UK Plcs been unable to locate their joint savings 
account  which was held with Santanders predecessor, Alliance & Leicester (A&L)  and 
pay them the balance they say was outstanding in the account.
What happened
In 2021, Mr A rediscovered a passbook for the account which showed a balance of almost 
£1,600 in April 1986. Mr and Mrs A said they didnt close the account or transfer the money 
out of it and asked for access to the money along with a payment of the interest to date.
Santander said it checked its records and couldnt find the account details. It said if the 
account with A&L had a balance, a new account with Santander would have been created 
and it would have been able to trace details relating to the account closure or the funds 
would remain in an open, dormant account. Santander said neither of those things 
happened.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs A complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They were satisfied Santander 
had carried out appropriate checks to locate the account and they didnt believe it had 
treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, they said theyd spoken to a 
long-serving police officer who was of the opinion that the passbook proved the account 
remained open. Mr and Mrs A also told us theyd encountered similar situations with other 
financial businesses who  unlike Santander  had agreed to settle with them. As such, the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A have provided evidence showing they had a joint account with A&L. The 
passbook shows the balance in April 1986 together with some other details. 
Whereas Mr and Mrs A think the passbook also shows that the account remained open 
beyond that time (and to this day), I dont consider on balance that the evidence indicates 
that. Im satisfied that Santander tried to locate the account using the details provided by 
Mr and Mrs A, and the relevant address. Despite that, Santander was unable to locate the 
account details Mr and Mrs A wanted.
Santander said it only keeps customer account information for a certain number of years 
which I dont consider to be unusual or unreasonable in the light of relevant data protection 
requirements. Businesses arent expected to keep customer records indefinitely. Given the 
entry date showing in the passbook was so long ago and what Santanders said, Ive 
concluded that its likely the account didnt remain open and that it wasnt dormant either.
If the account was still active in some way, Id have expected to have seen a record of that 
with Santander. Or that it would have continued to correspond with Mr and Mrs A about the 
account. As its been unable to identify any significant details about the account or an 
outstanding balance, I consider it likely the account was closed some time ago and the 
outstanding balance paid or transferred to Mr and Mrs A.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A say thats not the case but, given the passage of time, its 
possible they might not recall this. Ive no doubt the claims been made in the genuine belief 
that they still have an account with Santander, but I havent seen sufficient evidence with 
which to make that finding.
I realise that Mr and Mrs A would like more conclusive evidence to show that they arent 
owed any money. But, understandably given the time thats passed, there are gaps in the 
information thats still available. As such, Ive had to reach my findings based on what I 
consider to be more likely than not to have happened given the available information.
Mr and Mrs A highlight the agreement of other financial businesses to repay them money 
held in old accounts and press reports they believe support their case. However, Im 
required to consider each case on its own merits. Having done that here, I dont conclude 
that Santanders treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman