DRN-3028954
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr J says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold that PPI policy.
I know that when PPI was sold to Mr J, Barclays was trading as Egg. But Ill refer mainly to 
Barclays in this decision because thats the business responsible for answering this 
complaint. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Js 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, and they subsequently thought 
Barclays offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr J paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Js representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr J online. So Im satisfied he would have been able 
to complete that application in his own time and at his own pace. I havent seen a screenshot 
of exactly how Mr J completed the application. But I have seen a sample copy and so I can 
be reasonably satisfied that I know what Mr J would have seen during the application 
process. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Barclays made it clear that PPI was 
optional and Mr J didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. I can see from the screenshots 
that Mr J would have been presented with two equally prominent options to select  one to 
mark to say he wanted PPI and another to mark to say he did not. I dont think Mr J would 
have been able to progress his application without selecting one or the other. And it looks as 
though he selected the PPI policy. I think he would have reasonably known to select no if 
he didnt want cover. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J. That means it didnt have to check that the cover 
was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely information about the 
cover so he could decide if it was right for him.
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mr Js credit card balance 
would have been repaid for up to a year if he was off sick from work, or if he was made 
redundant. Mr J told us that he didnt have any contractual sick pay from his employer, so I 
think the PPI would have lasted longer than his work benefits. Mr M told us that he didnt 
have any other means to fall back on to make his repayments if he wasnt working. So I can 
see how the cover could have been helpful to Mr J if he was out of work. 
Mr J told us that hed had problems with repeated tonsillitis as a child. But as these problems 
occurred 20 years before the cover was taken out, I dont think hed have been affected by 
any of the exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions. Certainly, the evidence before 
me doesnt suggest that Mr J had difficulties with tonsillitis in 2007 when this cover was sold.
While the policy contained some limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, those limitations didnt render the policy fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. I 
dont think Mr J would have reasonably thought hed be able to make a claim without 
providing some form of medical evidence to support that claim. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
 
Ive found that Mr J chose to take PPI out, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover, and it 
wasnt too dissimilar to what I think he reasonably thought he was buying from the 
information he was given. 
I havent seen anything that was unusual about Mr Js employment circumstances that would 
have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. From the 
information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. And as I set out above, I can 
see how the policy could have been helpful to Mr J at what would have no doubt been a 
stressful time for him if he was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mr 
J would have declined the cover had Barclays given him more or better information about it. 
Mr Js representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclays offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mr J about the high levels of commission and profit share he paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr J was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr Js representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr J should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Mr J about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr J wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr J in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Js representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclays  failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr J paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr J with 
the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Barclays had done everything 
it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Barclays payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As Barclays paid Mr J compensation on this basis in or around November 2017, I dont 
consider it should do anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Js complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Mr J an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it 
should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman