DRN-4034149
The complaint
Ms C complained because Santander UK plc didnt agree that shed paid in £12,000 cash. 
Santander said the amount shed paid in was £10,480.
What happened
On 21 September 2022, Ms C went to a Santander branch to pay in old £20 and £50 notes. 
Theres a conflict of evidence about what happened.
- Ms Cs version is that there were two brown envelopes each containing £5,000, and 
one white envelope containing £2,000. She says that the cashier took all the money 
from the envelopes, and took the contents of the two brown envelopes to the cash-
counting machine, leaving the contents of the white envelope aside. Another 
customer then came up to the till where Ms C was standing, and interrupted. The 
cashier told the other customer to wait, but Ms C said this distracted her. The cashier 
told Ms C that the total of the cash shed paid in was £10,480, not £12,000. Ms C 
said she accepted this because she thought hed meant this was the total just from 
the brown envelopes, and because shed been distracted by the other customer. Ms 
C went home.
- Santanders employees version is that when Ms C came to the till, he asked her how 
much money there was in the envelopes and she said £10,200. After counting the 
cash in the counter machine, there was more than that: £10,480. Ms C was given the 
chance to have the money back and count it herself, but Ms C said she must have 
made a mistake when counting, and was happy to deposit the higher figure. She 
confirmed the amount by chip and PIN using her card. He said another employee 
also checked the amount counted by the machine, and confirmed the amount as 
£10,480. He completed the deposit, gave a receipt to Ms C, and she left the branch.
Later that afternoon, Ms C rang Santander and said shed paid in £12,000. Santander asked 
the branch manager, who was the person whod served Ms C, to phone her. He rang her 
straight back. He told Ms C that shed said there was £10,200 and in fact there had been 
£280 more than that. He pointed out that while in the branch, Ms C hadnt disagreed, and 
that there had been no excess in his float and that his till had balanced. Ms C says he was 
extremely aggressive and defensive, and she complained. She told Santander that her 
money had been stolen.
Santander investigated, and sent Ms C its final response to her complaint on 23 September. 
It said it hadnt been able to establish any discrepancy. It told Ms C that it had checked 
CCTV and couldnt see any unusual activity by branch staff. It had also obtained witness 
evidence from two staff who had seen Ms C deposit the money, and both had said that the 
machine had counted the money as £10,480. 
Santander also pointed out that when Ms C had deposited the money, shed approved the 
amount as correct, with her card using chip and PIN. And the branch had given Ms C a 
receipt, which she had accepted as correct.
Ms C wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. He said that he hadnt been able to obtain 
CCTV, but Santanders record has confirmed what was counted, and there had been no 
excess in the end of day float. He pointed out that Ms C had had the chance to cancel the 
planned deposit and recount it, shed left the branch having accepted that the amount was 
£10,480. The investigator thought it was most likely that Ms C had made a mistake.
Ms C didnt agree. She said that it concerned her that the investigator hadnt been able to 
see CCTV, because she thought that would be the main evidence in her favour. She asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When theres a conflict of evidence, as there is here, I take my decision on what I think it 
most likely to have happened, taking into account all available evidence.
First, its very rare that we have CCTV, and even more unusual if it actually helps in 
determining the outcome of a dispute like this. It would need to have shown Ms C, the 
cashier, the other employee who said they witnessed the machine counting, and every 
single note in detail to an extent that it would be possible to count exactly how much there 
was. I think its extremely unlikely that CCTV would have shown all this. So in practice its 
nearly always necessary to look at the other evidence anyway.
Ive seen the written evidence from Ms C, the cashier, and the other cashier who says they 
witnessed the machine counting. 
Ive also seen Santanders computer records about the deposit. This shows that 200 x £50 
notes, and 24 x £20 notes, were what was recorded as paid in. This totals £10,480. The fact 
that there were 200 x £50 notes also tallies with Ms C saying the two brown envelopes 
contained £5,000 each. I recognise that Ms C says that there had been £2,000 in the white 
envelope and that the cashier had left this to one side. She also told Santander her money 
had been stolen. But the disputed amount isnt £2,000. Ms C says there was £12,000 and 
Santander says there was £10,480. Thats a difference of £1,520, and doesnt equate to 
£2,000 having been in the white envelope and not having been credited by the cashiers.
Most of all, however, I have taken into account that Ms C didnt raise any objection when she 
was in the branch. The computer records, which Ive seen, show that to approve the amount, 
she keyed in her PIN using her genuine card, as evidenced by the chip in the card. This is 
recorded at 12:22 on 21 September. I cant see why Ms C would have done this if she 
believed the cashier(s) had stolen £1,520 of her money.
Ms C was also given a receipt which showed the amount credited. Again, if she didn't think 
this was correct, Id have expected her to have queried it at the time.
Similarly, Ms C then left the branch and it wasnt until some hours later, after 4pm, when she 
disputed the amount. 
Ms C said that she was distracted by the other customer coming up to the till during the 
counting. But I dont think another customer coming up to the till during the machine 
counting, and being told theyd have to wait by the cashier, would explain Ms Cs later actions in agreeing the £10,480 figure. She also said that when she first went to the till, the 
cashier had asked her where shed got the money and said it wasnt safe to keep so much 
cash, which made her feel as if shed done something wrong. I think this would have been 
reasonable safety advice for the cashier to provide, but in any case I cant see why it would 
explain her later actions. I dont think either of these reasons is enough to explain why Ms C 
might then use her card and PIN to agree the amount; take a receipt without querying it; and 
leave the branch and not query the amount until some four hours later.
Taking all these factors into account, I think its more likely than not that the amount Ms C 
deposited on 21 September was £10,480. So I dont require Santander to pay her the 
disputed £1,520.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman