DRN-2101248
The complaint
Miss W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, failed to prevent her 
account being accessed by a fraudster and enabled fraudulent transactions to be carried 
out. And shed like compensation for this. 
What happened
Miss W had a credit card account with Barclays. 
On the 13 February 2020 Barclays identified a suspicious transaction on Miss Ws account 
and blocked her card. Barclays then received a phone call from someone who they believed 
was Miss W, but was in fact a fraudster. On speaking with the fraudster they unblocked 
Miss Ws card and allowed further transactions to go through totalling £2,700.
 
Later the same day Miss W noticed the disputed transactions and phoned Barclays. The 
bank accepted that Miss W had been the victim of fraud and refunded her in full on the same 
day.
 
Miss W wasnt happy that the bank had allowed the fraudster to pass security. She wanted 
details of the phone call the fraudster had with the bank to check if her data had been shared 
and compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
 
Barclays responded to advise that they wouldnt be able to share details of the call with 
Miss W  as they may compromise existing account holders. Barclays explained theyd sent 
Miss W a new card and added an extra security question to her account. 
Miss W didnt accept Barclays response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary 
they explained that Barclays had refunded Miss W on the same day and they hadnt 
identified any of Miss Ws personal data that was shared with the fraudster.
 
Miss W didnt accept our investigators opinion. I reviewed Miss Ws response  and shared 
my initial thoughts with her. I explained that I agree Barclays failed to adequately protect her 
account, by allowing a fraudster to pass security when they shouldnt have done so, but on 
identifying their error the bank refunded Miss W. And on listening to the call I was satisfied 
they didnt share any of Miss Ws personal information. Therefore I didnt think Barclays 
should pay Miss W any compensation. 
Miss W didnt accept my thoughts and in summary said:
The bank breached their own policy with regards to data protection and failed to 
protect her. 
She accepts she received the refund however because the fraud occurred she was 
unable to use the product and therefore was disadvantaged by not having the credit 
available. This caused her detriment. 
She had no choice but to close her account with Barclays. And this has negatively 
impacted her credit score.
The bank caused her distress with how they handled her complaint  including 
lengthy calls and a breakdown in trust. 
Because Miss W didnt accept my initial thoughts Ive reconsidered Miss Ws complaint and 
her additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Both parties are in agreement that Miss W didnt authorise the disputed transactions. And 
Barclays refunded the disputed transactions on the same day. So Ive not considered this 
further. Instead what I need to assess is whether Barclays followed their security 
procedures, if they shared Miss Ws personal information with the fraudster and whether 
Miss W suffered additional inconvenience due to Barclays actions. 
I've listened to the call that the fraudster had with Barclays on the 13 February 2020 - and 
I'm satisfied that Barclays allowed the fraudster to pass security and unblock the card when 
they failed to correctly answer two out of the three questions. I understand that Miss W is 
concerned Barclays breached GDPR and shared her personal details with the fraudster but 
it's not our role to punish a business for breaching the GDPR regulations. As our investigator 
explained this is the role of the Information Commissioner's Office. I can however consider if 
any additional detriment was caused to Miss W through Barclays actions. Although I agree 
Barclays made an error in allowing the fraudster to pass security, and confirm the attempted 
transactions were genuine, I'm satisfied the bank didn't share Miss Ws personal details or 
data with the fraudster. And therefore I dont think any additional detriment was caused to 
Miss W. 
 
I understand that Miss W suffered distress as fraud occurred on her account - and Barclays 
need to take some responsibility for allowing this to happen. However its important for me to 
take into account the distress Barclays actions caused Miss W and those caused by the 
fraudster. I accept that Barclays security procedures during the phone call werent followed, 
however Ive not seen any evidence that the bank contributed to the fraudster gaining 
access to Miss Ws card details to carry out the disputed transactions. This leads me to 
conclude that even if Barclays had followed their security procedures correctly Miss W would 
have suffered inconvenience. I say this because attempted fraud would have been detected 
on Miss Ws account  leading to Miss Ws card being cancelled. And Miss W would have 
experienced the same level of inconvenience in not having access to her available credit. 
I understand that Miss W has also said this experience caused her to lose trust in Barclays, 
close her account, reduce her available credit and negatively impact her credit score. And I 
can understand why Miss W would be concerned about future fraud. Ive considered 
Miss Ws points but it was Miss Ws decision to end her relationship with Barclays  as she 
was entitled to do. I understand Miss Ws reasons for doing so but I cant hold the bank 
responsible for any impacts Miss W was caused by her decision to close the account. 
Ive also considered Miss Ws final point  about the distress caused by Barclays handling of 
her complaint. However, and I realise this will be disappointing to Miss W, complaint points about a businesses handling of a complaint arent usually within our jurisdiction. And 
therefore Im satisfied I dont have the power to consider this. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman