DRN-3628056
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold an accident and sickness policy by Hive Insurance 
Services Limited.
What happened
Mr T had taken out an accident and sickness policy in February 2009 through Hive which 
had a cashback option for when no claims had been made for 12 years. So, Mr T got in 
touch with Hive in February 2021 to claim the cashback. But Hive said that this policy was 
cancelled as it never received any premiums for it. Instead, the policy Mr T had in place had 
been taken out in 2012, and he hadnt chosen the cashback option for this policy.
Mr T says he thought the meeting in 2012 was merely to update the policy in 2009  and 
hed declared his existing accident and sickness policy during the application process in 
2009. He says the only reason he took out the policy in 2009 was due to the cashback 
option. He says the policy he had didnt meet his needs as he already held cover elsewhere, 
and the policy exclusions werent explained to him. So, Mr T believes the policy he took out 
in 2012 was mis-sold to him.
Mr T also says that when the policy was cancelled (by the insurer) and a new one arranged 
in 2017, Hive shouldve sent out a representative to make sure the policy still met his needs. 
Had it done so, Mr T says he couldve cancelled the policy at this point.
Hive says that it was noted in the fact find in 2012 that Mr T didnt hold an existing accident 
and sickness policy. And it said it was noted in the demands and needs statement that a 
cashback option wasnt recommended, and therefore not included in the policy. Hive said 
Mr T had signed the application form to confirm that the policy exclusions were explained to 
him. Overall, Hive didnt think it had mis-sold the policy. 
Hive also says that the letter it sent to Mr T in 2017 explained that it was for Mr T to make 
sure the new policy met his needs. 
Our investigator didnt think hed seen enough to say Hive had mis-sold the policy to Mr T  
he was persuaded by the information recorded and set out in the contemporaneous 
documents from 2012. Our investigator also didnt think Hive had done anything wrong in 
2017 when the policy was cancelled and an alternative one was arranged.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the relevant law and regulations, including the requirements 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (formerly the Financial Services Authority) Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). As this was an advised sale, Hive had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice for Mr T.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Im satisfied with Hives explanation that the policy Mr T took out in 2009 was cancelled 
shortly after inception, as it didnt receive any payments towards the premium. I havent seen 
any evidence to the contrary.
Mr T says he thought the policy he took out in 2012 was merely to update the existing policy. 
But this was an advised sale, and I can see that a fact find and an application form were 
filled out. These show that under existing policy for accident and sickness it says none, 
and it was indicated by a tick that a cashback option was discussed but not required. This 
information was also reflected in the demands and needs statement Hive completed and 
sent to Mr T when recommending the policy to him.
I accept that Mr T declared in 2009 that he had an existing accident and sickness policy. But 
the documents from 2012 dont suggest this was declared when applying for a new policy. 
Same as our investigator, Im persuaded by the contemporaneous documents. Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that these reflect what was discussed at the point of sale. This is 
because Mr T signed the fact find and the application form to confirm that the information 
hed provided was correct, to the best of his knowledge. By doing so, he also confirmed that 
he understood the exclusions and restrictions of the policy.
Mr T has pointed out that the fact find contains incorrect information, and the notes show 
that Hive shouldve called his assistant when making a valuation call  but this never 
happened. He says these support that the policy was mis-sold. Ive thought carefully about 
what Mr T has said. But these dont change my overall findings, for the reasons Ive set out 
above.
Finally, Mr T says Hive shouldve done more during the life of the policy, and when the policy 
changed to a new insurer in 2017. Had it done so, Mr T says he couldve become aware 
much earlier that his policy didnt have a cashback option. But there was no requirement for 
Hive to provide further advice on the policy to Mr T after the sale. And I can see that the 
letters it sent to him in 2017 explained that it was for Mr T to make sure the new policy met 
his needs. Overall, I dont think Hive has done anything wrong.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Hive has mis-sold the policy to Mr T. 
Im satisfied Hive followed the requirements under ICOBS in selling the policy. So, I dont 
think theres anything it needs to do, to put things right. But if Mr T thinks hes held two 
policies that provided the same cover, meaning that he wouldnt have been able to benefit 
from both policies but he paid premiums for both, he can make a complaint about these to 
the relevant insurer(s). Hive isnt an insurer here, its a broker who sold this policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Hive Insurance Services 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman