DRN-3320192
The complaint
Ms T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined her application for a feeder 
account. She needed the feeder account in order to apply for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. Ms T didnt hold any accounts with the bank so, on 24 June 2020, she 
applied for a feeder account. The same day, HSBC told Ms T that her application had been 
declined. The bank said Ms T hadnt met its criteria.
 
Ms T says she appealed the decision, and that she was subsequently told her appeal had 
been successful. She says she was then told to visit a branch with her identification 
documents  which she duly did. Ms T says she spent around an hour in branch completing 
the necessary identity checks. But, following her visit to branch, she received no further 
updates.
 
A short while later, Ms T looked online for a phone number that she could call for an update 
 but she saw HSBCs website advised customers not to call. So, she didnt. More time 
passed and, having still heard nothing, on 30 March 2021 Ms T decided to call the bank. 
During the call, HSBC told Ms T that her application had never been approved and the 
decision to decline it still stood. The bank said there was no evidence of a successful appeal, 
any other follow-up applications or Ms Ts visit to branch. So, Ms T raised a complaint. 
In response, HSBC explained that the Bounce Back Loan Scheme had now closed. It also 
confirmed that it had been unable to open a feeder account for Ms T. 
The bank issued a further response, on 29 April, which provided some further detail. It said, 
in summary, that there was no evidence that the bank had agreed to overturn Ms Ts 
application. And it apologised to Ms T that she had been asked to provide her 
documentation, despite her application being declined. The bank reiterated that the Scheme 
had now closed, and no further action would be taken. 
Ms T remained unhappy, so she contacted out service for an independent review. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened, and he didnt think HSBC had done anything 
in wrong in declining Ms Ts application for a feeder account. In summary, he said:
HSBC had the discretion to decide how it would offer Bounce Back Loans to new 
customers. And it was reasonable to require an account to be opened first, so that 
the bank could complete anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer checks in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations and as required under the Scheme.
HSBC was entitled to assess applications for a new account against its own criteria. 
The bank had set out the checks that it would carry out in the application form. 
HSBC had fairly assessed Ms Ts application. Its internal records showed that the 
application hadnt met the banks criteria. And those criteria hadnt been adjusted in 
light of the pandemic.  
The investigator did agree, though, that Ms T had been caused some avoidable distress and 
inconvenience. He said that  while a little unclear just what Ms T had been told regarding 
her appeal of the banks decision  she had spent unnecessary time visiting a branch and 
providing HSBC with her identification documents. So, he thought the bank should pay her 
£200 compensation. 
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but Ms T didnt agree. She said that HSBC had 
acted unjustly, and that it had caused her a great deal of distress. Ms T said shed been 
relying on the Bounce Back Loan to help with financial commitments across her business, 
and that the whole issue had caused her to suffer stress and anxiety which has negatively 
impacted her health. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, at the time she approached HSBC about a Bounce Back Loan, Ms T 
was a new customer. So, like any new customer, the bank required her to open an account 
before she could apply for a Bounce Back Loan. And I think thats reasonable. HSBC wasnt 
obliged to offer Bounce Back Loans to new customers at all. And the Scheme allowed HSBC 
the discretion to decide how it accepts applications.
 
Further, by following an account opening process first, HSBC could complete anti-money 
laundering and Know Your Customer checks. These checks are an important legal and 
regulatory requirement, which were also necessary under the Scheme rules.
 
Ive looked to see that HSBC treated Ms Ts feeder account application as it would one from 
any other new customer. From what Ive seen, theres nothing which indicates HSBCs 
account opening criteria was amended  or that it became more restrictive  as a result of 
the pandemic.
 
Rather, Im satisfied that HSBC has shown it carried out its usual account opening process 
when it handled Ms Ts application. And, on that basis, Im satisfied it treated Ms T fairly and 
not any differently to another new customer. It follows that, given Ms Ts application didnt 
meet the criteria, I dont think HSBC was wrong to decline it.
 
Ms T feels it was unfair of HSBC to have factored credit information into its decision, 
particularly when credit scoring wasnt part of the application process for the Bounce Back 
Loan itself.
 
I understand Ms Ts point here, but while its true to say that lenders werent expected to 
decline applications for a Bounce Back Loan on the basis of credit-related concerns, the 
feeder account was a separate product. And it was, therefore, legitimately subject to different 
rules and requirements.
 
Moreover, while the purpose of the feeder account was to facilitate the drawdown of a 
Bounce Back Loan, HSBC still had the discretion to decide the basis upon which it would 
accept applications from new customers. So, it could decide the eligibility criteria for the feeder account  including its credit-scoring requirements. And because its up to HSBC to 
determine its account opening procedures and criteria, I dont think there was anything 
inherently unfair or unreasonable in it considering the creditworthiness of an applicant here. 
So, overall, I cant say the bank treated Ms T unfairly when it declined her feeder account 
application.
That said, while Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to decline Ms Ts application was a fair 
one, I do think she was caused some distress and inconvenience. 
I say that because, while theres nothing definitive  from either party  to evidence exactly 
what happened when Ms T says she appealed HSBCs decision, I dont think its likely that 
she wouldve visited a branch to provide her identification documents unless something gave 
her the impression that her application was progressing.
 
I can surely understand how that wouldve created a sense of expectation, which ultimately 
ended in disappointment. Ms Ts also explained how the matter created further stress and 
anxiety for her, and Im sorry to hear about the issues shes faced with her mental wellbeing. 
So, it follows that Im satisfied she should be compensated.
To that end, HSBC has accepted that something went wrong, and its now agreed to pay 
Ms T £200 in compensation. In all the circumstances, taking into account the wasted time 
spent on a trip to branch, I think thats a fair and reasonable amount to recognise the 
inconvenience Ms T was caused. So, thats what I require the bank to pay Ms T as 
resolution to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Ms T £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman