DRN-1570004
The complaint
Ms O has complained about the handling of her debts by a debt collection agency, Arrow 
Global Limited.
What happened
Ms O fell into financial difficulties and in 2010 she set up payment arrangements on two of 
her credit cards, each for £20 per month. Her debts were sold to Arrow Global in 2017 and, 
following a series of letters, Ms Os debts were referred to solicitors in early 2019. Ill refer to 
the two accounts as account A and B. The balance on account A was in the region of £2,000 
and the balance on account B was around £7,000. 
Ms O complained to Arrow Global in March 2019. She raised various concerns about the 
ownership and administration of her debts. Arrow Global replied in early April to 
acknowledge Ms Os complaint and said all collections activity would stop until they issued 
their final response  which they did in late May. Arrow Global upheld some of Ms Os 
complaint points, and sent her a cheque for £100. 
In early May 2019, Ms O received a county court claim relating to account B, and a letter 
from the solicitors saying that they were taking her case to court. She sent her defence 
statement to the court later that month.
In early June 2019, Ms O completed an income and expenditure assessment with the 
solicitors, and they agreed that she would continue her £20 per month payment on account 
A. During that month various discussions took place about a possible settlement of the debt 
 Ms O offered £300 and Arrow Global said they would be willing to accept £500. The 
solicitors wrote to Ms O on 25 June 2019 to offer to settle the debt for £500. And then, on 2 
July 2019, they wrote again, offering to settle the same debt for nearly £1,600. 
Ms O complained to Arrow Global again. She said she felt harassed and that shed kept to 
the payment arrangement made. She said the situation was causing her stress and making 
her health situation her worse. Ms O complained about the unclear information from the 
solicitors about the settlement figure. She also complained about some payments being 
taken twice.
Arrow Global replied in early September. They partially upheld Ms Os complaint and sent 
her a cheque for £150. But they didnt think Ms O had been harassed. 
Ms O wasnt happy with Arrow Globals reply and brought her case to us. She said she was 
complaining about five things:
Arrow Global appointing solicitors without telling her
Harassment from Arrow Global and their solicitors
There hadnt been any acknowledgement that Ms O had never missed payments
Shed been provided with incorrect statements and in some months her £20 payment 
had been taken twice when it shouldnt have been
Arrow Global hadnt treated her offer of £300 to settle the debt fairlyDuring our investigation, in October 2019, Ms O received further letters from the solicitors 
about going to court in respect of account BB. She was upset that shed received these even 
though shed been told her account was on hold. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Os complaints. Her view was that Arrow Global had 
compensated Ms O fairly for the errors theyd made, and she didnt think that their behaviour 
constituted harassment. But she thought Ms O shouldnt have received the letters from the 
solicitors in October 2019 and that Arrow Global should pay an additional £50 to Ms O to 
compensate her for the upset this caused.
Arrow Global disagreed with our investigators view. They said theyd only put account A on 
hold because this was the only one Ms O had complained about. Our investigator didnt 
agree and so the case has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Os complaint and to ask Arrow Global to pay an 
additional £50 to Ms O. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Ms Os five complaint points set out in bullet points above and Im not 
upholding these. I dont think Arrow Global have done anything wrong in this respect and Ill 
explain further below. But first Ill explain my findings in relation to Ms Os additional 
complaint that Ms O received letters from the solicitors in October 2019 when shed been 
told her account was on hold.
Suspension of Ms Os accounts
I can see from Arrow Globals files that although Ms Os complaints were only logged against 
account A, there are notes that show the complaints also related to account B. This is 
consistent with what Ms O told us  that she was complaining about both accounts. In 
addition, as part of Ms Os complaint is about harassment, I think its important to consider 
the whole relationship between Arrow Global and Ms O  this means its important to look at 
both accounts. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that both accounts should have been placed on hold while we 
investigated Ms Os complaints. I can see that account B wasnt placed on hold and the 
letters sent to Ms O in late October 2019 caused Ms O additional stress and anxiety.
Appointment of solicitors
Ms Os complained that Arrow Global appointed solicitors without telling her. However, I can 
see that Ms O was sent letters in relation to both accounts in mid-December 2018 and again 
in early January 2019. The December letters told Ms O that she needed to get in touch to 
discuss her repayments. The January letters told Ms O that if she didnt get in touch by 
23 January 2019 her accounts would be passed to solicitors. On 26 January 2019, Ms O 
was sent a further letter in relation to each account confirming that the accounts would be 
passed to solicitors. So, I cant say she wasnt told of the appointment of solicitors.
Harassment from Arrow Global and their solicitorsI have carefully considered the volume and content of communication from Arrow Global and 
their solicitors to Ms O. And Ive looked at what the Financial Conduct Authority says in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook about how firms should collect debts (CONC 7). 
I appreciate that Ms O paid £20 each month for several years in respect of each of her 
accounts and had not missed any of these payments. So, I can imagine that she was 
stressed and upset when Arrow Global got in touch in December 2018 and said they wanted 
to review her circumstances. And I can imagine how stressful this situation became when 
court proceedings were issued against Ms O. But Im satisfied Arrow Global gave Ms O fair 
warning and notice of the proceedings. I can see that at each step they gave her 
opportunities to get in touch and discuss repayment plans. And they suggested debt 
counselling agencies that might be able to help her. Im satisfied that their actions were in 
line with the rules set out in CONC 7.
I cant describe the correspondence Ms O received as harassment. I can see that because 
she had two Arrow Global accounts with the solicitors, most of the correspondence was 
duplicated. It might have been helpful and less confusing for Ms O if Arrow Global and their 
solicitors had instead treated Ms O as one customer with two accounts. But overall Im 
satisfied they treated her fairly and didnt communicate excessively or in a threatening way.   
No acknowledgement that Ms O had never missed payments
I can see that part of the reason Ms O is upset about all this is because she had been paying 
consistently for around 10 years and she didnt feel this had been acknowledged by Arrow 
Global and their agents.
But I can see that the December 2018 and January 2019 letter to Ms O clearly told her that 
her payments were effectively an informal arrangement and wouldnt prevent legal 
proceedings. At this stage the debt was due in full until Ms O agreed a new formal payment 
plan with Arrow Global and thats why she was told shed failed to make payments. 
Incorrect statements and taking payments twice
Arrow Global addressed these points in their letters dated 20 May 2019 and 
4 September 2019. Ive reviewed their responses and Im satisfied theyve covered Ms Os 
concerns and that the compensation theyve paid for these errors is fair. 
Settlement offer of £300
Ms O offered £300 to settle account A in June 2019. At the date of this offer, her debt on this 
account was about £2,200. Arrow Global said they couldnt accept £300 but would accept 
£500 to write off this debt. Im satisfied Arrow Global considered Ms Os offer. I can see Ms 
O couldnt afford to pay more. And I can see that Arrow Global agreed to a formal repayment 
plan for Ms O to continue paying £20 per month on this account. While I appreciate that Ms 
O would have liked Arrow Global to write off the debt for £300, Im satisfied theyve treated 
her offer fairly and so I wont be telling them to accept the offer.
Putting things right
Arrow Global have paid Ms O £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to her by their poor customer service and account handling. Im satisfied thats a fair 
outcome for the issues they acknowledged in their letters dated 20 May 2019 and 
4 September 2019. I can see Ms Os health has suffered as a result of Arrow Globals 
failings, but I think this is a fair reflection of the errors made and the impact of those on Ms 
O.But Im directing Arrow Global to pay an additional £50 to Ms O. Thats because they 
continued with legal proceedings on account B when Ms O thought her accounts were on 
hold. As set out above, Im satisfied it was fair for Ms O to expect both accounts to be on 
hold. And shes told us of the additional stress and anxiety caused by the October letters 
about continuing legal proceedings. The account was placed on hold shortly after  which is 
why Im satisfied £50 is sufficient compensation. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im partially upholding Ms Os complaint. Arrow Global Limited 
need to pay an additional £50 to Ms O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman