DRN-4076689
The complaint
In summary, Miss W complains that Santander UK Plc, closed her current account without 
her being made aware, as correspondence was sent to her old address. A default notice has 
been added to her credit file and she says it didnt update her address details when she 
gave it that information in a branch.
What happened
Miss W had a current account with Santander which was originally opened in 2009. On 
8 April 2022, Santander sent Miss W a default notice which asked her to pay the outstanding 
balance on the unarranged overdraft on her account, within 14 days. It explained that legal 
action might be taken to recover the money if the outstanding sum wasnt repaid in 14 days. 
Santander wrote to Miss W again on 9 April 2022 explaining that it intended to report the 
default to credit reference agencies in 28 days time if the unarranged overdraft wasnt paid, 
or a repayment plan agreed. Miss W didnt respond, and as a result Santander defaulted the 
account. Santanders records indicated that the letter dated 8 April 2022 was returned to it 
on 11 May 2022. 
Miss W complained to Santander. In its response to her complaint of 17 June 2022, it 
explained that as there had been missed payments and the account was overdrawn, the 
correct process had been followed, by writing off the debt after many attempts to get in 
contact with her.
Miss Ws concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
thought Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. In summary they didnt think Miss Ws new 
address had been updated by Santander, after she went into one of its branches to do so. 
The first default notice had been sent back to it as Miss W no longer lived at the address it 
held for her. They thought Santander could have used the services of a debt collection 
agency sooner to try and trace her. They didnt think it was fair of Santander to have 
registered a default on her credit file when it should have realised, she wouldnt have 
received the default notices it had sent her. And she had previously updated her address, 
which suggested she would have done so in September 2021. 
Santander didnt agree. It said it was obliged to serve default notices by post to the address 
recorded on its system. The address wasnt updated until 16 June 2022 with information 
provided by an external recovery agent. Its records showed that Miss Ws address details 
were amended eight times in total. Its records showed that she interacted with it only via the 
internet from 1 September to 30 September 2021. Any branch staff would have needed to 
have completed security with her, including accessing her account details and this would 
have left a footprint on its records system. An external agent would only have been used 
once all other avenues had been exhausted. 
The investigator reconsidered the case in light of the arguments made by Santander. He 
didnt think that Miss W had changed her address, so he didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. 
In response Miss W insisted she had changed her address by going into a branch in May 
2021. She explained the impact this had on her personally and on her credit file.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Miss Ws account was overdrawn when the default 
notice letters were issued, and that those notices were sent to an address where Miss W 
wasnt living at that time. I need to decide in this case, whether Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it defaulted Miss Ws account.
Miss W says that she went into a branch of Santander to change her address in September 
2021. So, she thinks Santander should have had her current address when it sent her the 
default notices. Santander disputes that and has provided evidence which it says shows 
Miss W didnt update her address when she said she did. And its said its records showed 
that her address was last updated in June 2022. There was no record of an address change 
in September 2021. 
In addition, it has provided screenshots from its system that records activity on the account. 
Its said that the records confirm that for the period 1 September to 30 September 2021, 
Miss W only interreacted with Santander via the internet. It also said the records showed 
there were no branch visits, and if there had been a branch visit, security details would have 
to be completed which would have left an electronic record on its internal system. 
Ive considered the records provided by Santander. I think what it has said about any contact 
being recorded on its internal system is logical and plausible. And the records Ive seen 
support what Santander has said. If Miss W had updated her address in branch, I would 
have expected it to have been recorded on Santanders records. I accept that what Miss W 
has said is her honest recollection of what happened. But I simply dont have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that she did update her address in branch as she says she did. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Santanders records are an accurate record of her address 
and contact history.
Ive also gone on to consider the default notice letters, and the post that was returned to 
Santander. Its not in dispute that Miss Ws account was overdrawn. And given the history of 
how long it had been overdrawn, I dont think it was unreasonable in this case for Santander 
to have written to Miss W asking for the overdraft to be repaid in 28 days, or the account 
would be put into default; and credit reference agencies informed of that. 
Santander did receive the letter sent on 8 April was returned as not delivered. But this wasnt 
according to its records, received after the 28-day deadline for the overdraft to be repaid had 
expired and credit reference agencies being informed. So, I dont think the returned post had 
any impact on the appropriateness of Santander putting the account into default and 
notifying the credit reference agencies. 
I do understand that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman