DRN-3161374
The complaint
Mr F complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when providing him with a credit 
limit increase on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr F applied for a Vanquis credit card in 2012. The credit limit was increased on several 
occasions, with the final increase  from £1,500 to £2,500  being applied in January 2016. 
In 2021 Mr F complained to Vanquis that it had lent to him irresponsibly when he initially 
applied for the credit card and at each subsequent credit limit increase. 
Vanquis responded to say it couldnt investigate most of the lending decisions due to the 
time that had passed since theyd been made. Regarding the decision to increase the credit 
limit in 2016, it did investigate and said relevant checks were completed to ensure it made a 
responsible lending decision. It said these checks showed no previously defaulted debt, no 
outstanding county court judgments (CCJs) and total outstanding external debt (excluding 
mortgage debt) of around £635. Vanquis said this all showed the additional lending was 
affordable for Mr F, in line with its lending policy at the time.
Unhappy with Vanquiss response, Mr F complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and told Mr F they believed hed complained about the lending decisions made 
prior to 2016 out of time as per the rules this service must follow. In relation to the decision in 
2016 the investigator felt that Vanquis hadnt carried out proportionate checks as it should 
have. But they didnt think that made a difference as proportionate checks wouldnt have 
brought up anything of concern that might have led Vanquis to refuse the credit limit 
increase.  
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings about the lending decision made in 2016, 
although he accepted that we couldnt assess his complaint about the previous decisions. 
He thought Vanquis should have seen in 2016 that his debt with it was increasing every time 
his credit limit went up because he was only able to make the minimum monthly payments. 
He explained his other credit details might not have indicated that he was in financial 
difficulty since his circumstances meant, for example, his bank wouldnt allow him to have an 
overdraft facility and other credit card providers wouldnt agree to increase his existing, low, 
credit limits.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Im not going to address the lending decisions made prior to January 2016 in any detail here. 
The investigators already explained to both parties why were unable to consider them and I 
agree with their assessment of that issue. 
Instead, Ive focussed on the aspect of the complaint that I can consider, and which remains 
in dispute  that is, Vanquiss decision to increase the credit limit in 2016. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Vanquis treated Mr F 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit. These include:
1) Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Vanquis make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Vanquis complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Vanquis had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr F could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Vanquis needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Vanquiss checks needed 
to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of customer 
vulnerability.  
The checks Vanquis needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr F any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr F had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Vanquis would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Vanquis completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit limit increase are as follows:
Mr F initially applied for the credit card, which had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 
49.9%, in 2012.
Mr F was recorded by Vanquis at the time as being employed and as having a yearly 
income of £20,000. 
The initial credit limit of £250 was relatively low. But the limit was increased substantially 
over subsequent years and, finally, from £1,500 to £2,500 in 2016. 
Prior to increasing the credit limit, Vanquis checked how Mr F had been managing his 
existing limit and checked his credit details. In terms of his existing limit, Vanquis suggests 
there was no significant cause for concern. Although I note that, while Mr F seemed to be 
managing the account to an extent, he was only making the minimum monthly repayments 
and his level of borrowing had increased along with each credit limit increase that Vanquis 
provided him with. Arguably I think this meant further borrower focussed checks were 
warranted, especially since the credit limit was due to go up again and by a significant 
amount. The indications from this were that Mr F might have had problems repaying the 
balance on his account with the existing credit limit. There was a risk that increasing the 
credit limit further might cause further problems for him.
I see that Vanquis instructed a credit agency to carry out searches in relation to Mr Fs credit 
history in 2016 and that they revealed no short-term lending, outstanding CCJs or previously 
defaulted debt. According to the results, Mr Fs total external lending, not taking into account 
mortgages, was £635 and 17 months had passed since hed missed an external debt 
repayment. Vanquis said that this, together with the other information obtained, meant the 
additional credit had been offered in accordance with its lending policy. 
As Ive already alluded to, Vanquiss internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with the lending rules and 
regulations of the time. Bearing in mind the above, and that Vanquis relied on Mr Fs income 
as recorded in 2012 rather than obtaining updated information in 2016, I dont believe the 
checks Vanquis carried out prior to the credit limit increase showed he could sustainably 
afford to make the repayments. I dont think that the checks were, on balance, reasonable 
and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I cant fairly uphold the complaint purely on the basis that I believe Vanquis fell short in 
respect of the checks it needed to carry out. I must also go on to consider whether such 
checks ought to have made a difference to Vanquiss lending decision.  
I think Vanquis should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of its offer to Mr F. A credit limit increase of £1,000 represented a 
relatively substantial extra financial burden in addition to his existing borrowing. Given this 
and the information Vanquis had about Mr F further checks would, in my opinion, have 
needed to verify his income and expenditure in 2016. These would have been in addition to 
the checks it carried out and establish that he was able to afford the increased credit limit. 
One of the difficulties, given the length of time since the credit limit increase was offered, is 
understanding what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown had Vanquis carried them out. However, our investigator asked Mr F for a copy of his bank statements 
from the time and a copy of his full credit report. Having these, together with the other 
available information, certainly helps provide a picture of his financial situation at the time. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Fs said about being in severe financial difficulty in 
January 2016 but the evidence Ive seen doesnt support that. Mr Fs bank statements 
leading up to that point indicate his account was in relatively good order at the time. Between 
September 2015 and January 2016, he was in regular receipt of payments which were 
commensurate with someone earning the income hed previously declared to Vanquis. His 
account was in credit throughout that period and theres little sign that he was struggling to 
keep pace with his outgoings. 
Mr F says he didnt have an overdraft facility because his bank wouldnt allow him to have 
one due to his financial situation. However, theres no indication from the statements that he 
needed an overdraft, let alone that he wouldnt have coped with one if an overdraft had been 
made available.  
Regarding Mr Fs credit report, I note several of his accounts have defaulted. Importantly 
though, the majority of these defaulted in late 2017 or early 2018 which was around two 
years after Vanquiss decision to increase the credit limit. So, this information wouldnt have 
been available to Vanquis in 2016 and so couldnt have been a factor in its decision. 
While Mr F had an open credit card account and store card account running with other 
lenders at the time of the increase, the credit report doesnt show that he was in any difficulty 
with either in January 2016. 
According to Mr F, his situation was such that other lenders were refusing to lend to him in 
2016 and that Vanquis was almost alone in dealing with him. He says this indicates its 
lending decision was irresponsible. But, having reviewed his credit file, I can see that 
Vanquis wasnt alone in lending to Mr F in 2016, with several accounts being opened in the 
months that immediately followed Vanquiss decision.
Did Vanquis make a fair lending decision?  
From the information obtained and provided by Vanquis, and sent to us by Mr F, theres little 
to suggest he was struggling financially when the credit limit was increased in 2016. 
I cant see anything in the information Vanquis ought to have obtained that should have 
given it reason to believe the credit limit increase was unaffordable for Mr F, or that it was 
unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.  
I recognise how strongly Mr F feels that Vanquis has treated him unfairly. But, from what Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say that it was irresponsible of Vanquis to offer him the credit limit 
increase in 2016.
Did Vanquis act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Vanquis acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F in some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman