DRN-3495008
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) supplied her with a chair that wasnt fit 
for purpose, as it had pieces missing. Studio sent her a replacement chair, but that had the 
same items missing. Studio failed to collect the two chairs as agreed which caused Mrs M a 
huge amount of distress and inconvenience.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party. For ease, Ill largely refer to 
everything hes said as if it was said by Mrs M.
What happened
On being discharged from hospital, Mrs M was advised to obtain a particular type of chair to 
assist with her mobility. She has a credit agreement with Studio and used that to make the 
purchase of a chair in July 2021. When it was delivered, it did not include the nuts and bolts 
required for assembly. Studio arranged for a replacement chair to be delivered, but it didnt 
collect the first chair, and the replacement chair also had the assembly items missing.
Studio agreed Mrs M could return both chairs and that it would refund her account.
On the evening before the agreed collection day, she arranged for someone to put the boxes 
outside, but under the cover of her porch roof. The person who moved the boxes for her put 
them stacked outside the front door one on top of the other.
The planned collection didnt take place and there were three further failed attempts to 
collect the chairs. This meant that, for several months, the boxes blocked entry and exit to 
and from her home. It was only when an emergency ambulance had to be called that the 
paramedics moved the boxes to either side of the doorway to allow access. During this time, 
Mrs M says she also missed an important medical appointment.
Studio apologised and suggested Mrs M could contact a charity or the council to collect the 
items and it would refund her any cost involved.
Whilst our investigator was considering the complaint, the chairs were successfully collected 
by Studio.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. They concluded Studio 
had made a mistake in supplying two incomplete items and that it seemed to be responsible 
for the failed pick-ups, which had caused Mrs M disruption, stopped her from getting to an 
important medical appointment, and made her feel trapped in her home. The investigator 
thought Studio should pay Mrs M £300.
Studio didnt agree. It said it had heard from the courier company that it hadnt been able to 
collect the items because Mrs M hadnt put the required return labels on outside of the 
boxes. It thought the error was Mrs Ms responsibility.
Our investigator said this didnt change their view, because Studio hadnt acted quickly 
enough to try to resolve matters and the compensation recommended fairly recognised the 
impact this had on Mrs M in her individual circumstances.
Studio said it wasnt obvious why the chairs hadnt been collected until Mrs M told it shed 
not put the returns labels on the outside of the boxes. It said that, whilst it was able to 
arrange collection without the labels in the end, this was far from easy. And that Mrs M 
tended to end calls before it had been able to get all the information it needed from her. It 
said it was prepared to pay £100 compensation. Mrs M didnt accept this offer. And, as 
Studio didnt agree with our investigators conclusion, the complaint was passed to me.
Mrs Ms representative then contacted us to say why he thought Studio had failed to comply 
with the Equality Act 2010 and how it had discriminated against Mrs M by failing to make 
reasonable adjustments for her disability.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I set out why I was minded to award £300 compensation for the 
mistakes made in supplying a chair that wasnt of satisfactory quality. I said:
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods 
supplied must be of satisfactory quality. It also says that, if theres a fault with the 
goods, the business is allowed an opportunity to put things right  either by repairing 
or replacing the goods. Im satisfied that the first chair supplied to Mrs M wasnt of 
satisfactory quality because it didnt include the parts required to assemble it.
I find it was reasonable in the circumstances for Studio to supply a replacement chair 
 although it wrongly debited Mrs Ms account for the cost of that second chair. And it 
didnt collect the first chair when it delivered the replacement.
Im satisfied that the second, replacement, chair wasnt of satisfactory quality either, 
for the same reason. In the circumstances, I think it was fair that Studio provided a 
full refund.
There was a delay in Studio providing a refund, but Im satisfied Mrs Ms account was 
credited on 8 November (for the second chair) and 16 November 2021 (for the first 
chair). And that Studio credited the interest Mrs M was charged on these items on 25 
November 2021.
So Im satisfied Studio has fully refunded Mrs M. Ive gone onto think about the 
distress and inconvenience the supply of two unsatisfactory quality chairs caused 
Mrs M.
Mrs M had been advised by a medical professional that she needed the chair to help 
with her mobility and to allow her to remain independent in her own home. So it was 
very upsetting for her not to have received what she needed on the first occasion. It 
was obviously even more upsetting that the second chair also couldnt be used, 
meaning she had to try and find a chair from another supplier. Ive considered Mrs 
Ms vulnerabilities, and the fact that the chair was needed to help her retain her 
independence, and Ive taken into account that Studio wrongly debited Mrs Ms 
account for the replacement chair and delayed refunding her account. Having done 
so, I think £300 would be fair compensation for the supply of two faulty chairs in the 
individual circumstances here.And I explained why I was minded to award £100 for the mistakes made by Studio in 
collecting the chairs. I said:
Studio accepted Mrs M could return the chairs. It asked her to box them up and leave 
them in a sheltered spot, ready for collection. In the evening before the agreed 
collection date, Mrs M arranged for a neighbour to put the boxes under the shelter of 
her porch. The neighbour put the boxes, one on top of the other, outside her front 
door. Mrs M wasnt able to use the rear exit to her property because of her 
disabilities. And the boxes blocked the front entrance. This effectively trapped Mrs M 
inside her home.
I appreciate Mrs M expected the boxes to be collected the following morning, but she 
was still placed in a potentially dangerous position overnight. The boxes werent 
successfully collected, and nobody moved them, so she was left in that potentially 
dangerous position until an emergency ambulance needed to be called for her when 
she had a fall and the paramedic was able to move the boxes to the side. I 
understand that during this period, Mrs M missed a medical appointment because the 
person collecting her couldnt move the boxes. Mrs Ms representative told our 
investigator the appointment was with the diabetes clinic. Although he more recently 
recalls it was for cataract surgery.
Ive thought about this very carefully. Im very sympathetic to the position in which 
Mrs M found herself and Im sure this had an impact on her mental health and 
wellbeing. But I cant fairly hold Studio responsible for Mrs M being trapped inside her 
home, or for her missing her medical appointment. Studio didnt put the boxes in front 
of her door. I do appreciate Mrs M had limited people she could call on for help, but I 
dont think it would have been unreasonable for the neighbour who put the boxes 
there to move them the following day when they werent collected.
Studio used a third-party courier to collect the chairs. Studio knew the collection 
failed but wasnt told why. I dont think its unusual for collections like this to fail for a 
number of reasons and I dont think it was unreasonable to simply attempt collection 
again. But there were four unsuccessful collection attempts and I think Studio should 
have done more after the second failed attempt to find out the reason why. 
Particularly as it had been made aware of Mrs Ms vulnerabilities. It didnt investigate 
and discover that the collections had failed because Mrs M had put the labels inside 
the boxes instead of on the outside until the complaint had been referred to us and 
our investigator had issued her conclusion. At that point it arranged for the boxes to 
be collected without the labels.
I accept it wouldnt be usual to arrange collection without the required labels being 
affixed to the packaging. A courier will have a number of collections and deliveries to 
make on behalf of various businesses and it needs to make sure it is collecting the 
right items and delivering them to the correct business. But I think Studio could have 
arranged for the boxes to be collected without the labels earlier than it did. I think it 
reasonably should have investigated after the second, or certainly after the third, 
failed collection, especially as it was aware of Mrs Ms vulnerabilities.
Instead, after the fourth failed collection, it recommended Mrs M arranged for the 
chairs to be collected by the council or a charity. Whilst I recognise Studio says it 
suggested this because it was trying to help resolve things for Mrs M, I dont find this 
was an appropriate resolution, considering her particular circumstances.
Overall, I think Studio should have acted more quickly to resolve things because of 
Mrs Ms individual circumstances and the difficulties she was being caused. But I dont find it is responsible for blocking the entrance to her home. Taking all this into 
account, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused by Studio failing to resolve things more quickly 
after the second collection failed.
Studios response
Studio said it had no further comments in response to my provisional decision.
Mrs Ms response
Mrs Ms representative responded to say, in summary, that:
There are some errors in the provisional decision.
Hes not seen evidence to show that Mrs M has received a refund. Studios letter dated 
8 February 2022 says the refund will be processed after the chairs have been collected.
Studio said the boxes had to be kept under cover. And responsibility for any damage laid 
with Mrs M. The only way to keep the boxes under cover was to stack them under the 
porch.
The missed medical appointment meant Mrs M lost her place in the queue for cataract 
surgery and had to wait around six months longer than she would have done. During this 
time, her sight deteriorated, and her mental health was affected.
Studio should have done more to help, knowing that Mrs M had been left in a vulnerable 
position and didnt have anyone available to help her. The staff member from the courier 
company lived locally and would have known there was no one in the immediate 
community who could help Mrs M. That member of staff entered Mrs Ms home, so would 
have been aware of her vulnerabilities. He never mentioned there was a problem with 
the labels not being on the outside of the boxes.
Studio made no attempt to find out why the boxes hadnt been successfully collected, or 
to resolve things at an earlier stage. One solution might have been to issue the required 
labels to the courier.
Studio caused the problem by not supplying a defect-free chair. It should have resolved 
the problem. The suggestion to ask the council to collect the chairs wasnt of use 
because Mrs M wasnt in a position to arrange this. And it was insulting to suggest 
offering the chairs to a charity when they werent fit for purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again Id like to thank Mrs Ms representative for taking the time to provide a detailed 
response to my provisional decision. As I set out in that provisional decision, there is a 
considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this, and I know Mrs Ms representative has 
acknowledged this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I also explained in my provisional decision that a decision on whether or not Studio has 
breached the Equality Act 2010 would need to be taken by a court. But that Ive taken the 
Equality Act into account in deciding this complaint.
Mrs Ms representative pointed out some mistakes in my provisional decision. Ive corrected 
some of these in the What happened section above. I will comment on those that I consider 
relevant to the overall outcome when I cover the other points Mrs Ms representative has 
raised.
I explained in my provisional decision why I was satisfied that Studio had fully refunded 
Mrs M. And our investigator has now sent copies of the account statements to her 
representative which show the refund transactions. Studio sent a letter to Mrs M in February 
2022 which said a refund would be processed after collection. In most circumstances, a 
refund is not processed until the rejected items are returned. And Im satisfied this letter 
would most likely have been a standard letter about collection arrangements which is why it 
referred to the refund, even though the refund had already taken place. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought Studio should have investigated the failed 
collections earlier than it did, and why the suggestion of arranging for the council or a charity 
to collect the chairs wasnt appropriate. 
Ive reconsidered this, taking into account the points Mrs Ms representative made in 
response to my provisional decision. I want to assure him that I have understood the severe 
impact this had on Mrs Ms health and well-being. And I appreciate that, for various reasons, 
Mrs M didnt have anyone nearby to call upon for help, particularly because the boxes were 
so heavy. Im sorry for any misunderstanding about her missed appointment. I appreciate 
that, whilst the appointment may not have been for the operation itself, it did mean her 
cataract surgery was delayed. But, whilst Studio asked for the boxes to be kept undercover, 
I dont think it was reasonable to stack them in a way that blocked her entry and exit to her 
home  even if the expectation was that this would only be for one night. The fact remains 
that it wasnt Studio who stacked the boxes that way, so I cant hold it responsible for 
Mrs Ms missed appointment.
Mrs Ms representative told us that the member of staff at the courier company was fully 
aware of her circumstances. And he said that he thought there were some simple ways  for 
example, providing the courier with the labels  that could have resolved this earlier. I cant 
comment on the detail of the logistics involved in courier collections. But Ive already 
concluded Studio should have done more to resolve things at an earlier stage.
Having reconsidered everything, I conclude £400 is fair and reasonable compensation. In 
arriving at that conclusion, I dont under-estimate the impact on Mrs M of what happened 
here. And particularly the delay in her receiving her cataract operation. But I need to be fair 
to both parties here, and it wouldnt be fair to hold Studio responsible for the boxes blocking 
her entrance, or for the fact that Mrs M didnt have people around her who could readily help.
My final decision
My final decision is that Studio Rental Limited should pay Mrs M £400.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman