DRN-2366273
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr D and Ms K say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them 
PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr D and 
Ms Ks circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr D and Ms Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr D and Ms Ks. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr D and 
Ms Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event Halifax has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons 
for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened when the PPI was sold. Over the years, weve seen a number of Halifax cases 
involving branch sales from around the same period Mr D and Ms K would have been 
sold their PPI. Using what I know generally of Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think 
its more likely than not Mr D and Ms K would have been given an option to take out the 
PPI and that Halifax would have gained their consent before adding it to their account. In 
my experience, the mortgage documents usually confirmed that although buildings 
insurance was necessary, no insurance had to be taken with Halifax. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr D and Ms K, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr D and Ms Ks circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, 
Mr D and Ms K were eligible for the cover and although they had existing means they still 
seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr D and Ms Ks employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Ms K says she was an agency nurse, this 
wouldnt have prevented her from being able to claim. Ms K hasnt been able to confirm 
how long she was I the role, so without more information I think its more likely than not 
she had been working for at least six months. 
Although Mr D says he had two medical conditions some time before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have recommended it. I say this 
because the conditions wouldnt have been excluded as they occurred several years 
before the policy was sold.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D and Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D and Ms K as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr D and Ms K would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr D and Ms Ks circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So, I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr D and Ms K would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.Mr D and Ms Ks representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr D and Ms Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr D and Ms Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr D and Ms Ks particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Ms K.
Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs 
to do. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Mr D and Ms Ks representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr D and Ms K should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr D and Ms K about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr D and Ms K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should 
receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr D and Ms Ks PPI was less 
than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr D and Ms Ks 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipAs thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr D and Ms K about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr 
D and Ms K unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr D and Ms K back any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has paid back to Mr D and Ms K some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mr D and Ms K as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr D and Ms Ks complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr D and Ms K paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Ms K. So 
Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman