DRN-1967395
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Valour Finance Limited (trading as Savvy) gave him an 
unaffordable loan.
 
What happened
Mr D took one instalment loan from Savvy in March 2019. The loan was for £1,500 and it 
was to be repaid in 65 weekly instalments of £45.51. Mr D repaid his loan early in April 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint. She thought Savvys checks didnt go far 
enough based on the information it gathered during a telephone call with Mr D. As Mr D had 
declared he had another short-term loan with another lender, the adjudicator thought that 
this, along with the term and amount of the loan, was enough for Savvy to have asked more 
questions about Mr Ds short-term commitments. And had Savvy done this, the adjudicator 
thought Savvy wouldve likely seen that Mr D had a significant number of outstanding short-
term loans with other lenders. So, she recommended Mr Ds loan be upheld.
It appears that Mr D agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Savvy disagreed and provided 
the following points for me to consider:
Mr D settled his loan early,
At no point did Mr D demonstrate or express difficulties about his financial position or 
loan repayments,
Mr D had disposable income of around £752 per month and
Mr D had no outstanding and / or multiple loans showing on his credit file and he 
failed to disclose these loans on the underwriting call when we questioned this 
directly.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was provided.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint. And I think that Savvy were wrong to 
approve Mr Ds loan. Id like to explain why.
Mr D applied for his loan online and he was advised to ring Savvy in order to complete his 
loan application. Savvy has provided a copy of the call Ive listened to it. 
The advisor explained that they would have to ask him a series of questions about his 
circumstances before seeing if he was accepted for a loan. This was based on information 
he had informed Savvy about online. 
Mr D told Savvy he was employed, earning £1,516 a month which was paid on a weekly 
basis. The advisor asked Mr D about his monthly expenditure. Mr D told the advisor he was 
living with his parents and paying £200 rent. He also confirmed he had one dependant and 
had no other expenditure except for £20 for a mobile phone, £30 for food, £80 for 
entertainment/hobbies and £200 expenses for his dependant. Based on these figures Savvy 
could reasonably believe that Mr D could afford the loan repayments. 
The advisor went on to ask Mr D if he held any loans  and listed four different short-term 
lenders. Mr D confirmed he had one loan for £600 with one of these lenders. The loan had 
been taken out around five months prior to his application with Savvy. 
Following the call, Mr D was asked to provide a copy of a recent payslip, photo ID and a 
copy of a bank statement showing his details at the top. The advisor explained that they 
didnt need a full bank statement, only the information at the top of the statement.It appears that Savvy completed some affordability checks and a credit check. The results of 
the credit check showed Mr D had four credit cards. But it didnt show any other outstanding 
short-term loans. Subsequently, Mr D was deemed to have a monthly disposable income of 
around £555.12 after the lender considered Mr Ds circumstances and the loan repayment. 
Savvy approved Mr Ds loan on this basis.
But I dont think Savvy did enough to check the loan repayments were affordable for Mr D. 
I say this because the advisor only specifically asked Mr D if he had outstanding short-term 
loans with four named lenders. It isnt clear why only these four lenders were asked about.
 
In the telephone conversation, Mr D declared that he had an outstanding loan with one of the 
four lenders at the time. But as the details of this loan wasnt flagged on the results of the 
credit check Savvy completed, I think this should have led Savvy to have completed more 
detailed checks on Mr Ds circumstances, such as verification checks.  
This would have enabled Savvy to see if Mr D had any other short-term commitments 
(outside of the one he declared from the four lenders listed) elsewhere. This information 
would have given Savvy an insight as to whether Mr D was able to meet his loan 
repayments - especially as the loan was to run for around 15 months. But I cant see that 
Savvy did this.
As I think Savvy should have done more to verify Mr Ds circumstances and whether the 
loan repayments were affordable, Ive considered his bank statements at the time of the loan 
application.
Looking at Mr Ds outstanding short-term commitments, I can see he had a significant 
number of outstanding loans with other lenders around the time he applied for his loan with 
Savvy  at least four outstanding loans. To me, it seems Mr D was juggling a significant 
number of loans before and after he applied for his loan.
I acknowledge Savvy has said that Mr D settled his loan early, and that Mr D didnt 
demonstrate or express difficulties about his financial position. Mr D only held his loan for 
around two months before repaying this by borrowing money from a family member. But 
when Savvy granted the loan they didnt expect the loan to repaid early  there was an 
expectation that Mr D would repay the loan in line with the credit agreement. And the fact Mr 
R repaid the loan early, doesnt necessarily mean it was affordable from the start, as a 
customer could be taking out further lending or borrowing elsewhere  as in Mr Ds case.
So I think Savvy was wrong to approve Mr Ds loan. 
What Savvy should do to put things right
Refund all interest, fees and charges on Mr Ds loan
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D to his loan, 
calculated from the date Mr D originally made the payments, to the date the loan was 
settled.
Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded about Mr Ds loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Valour Finance Limited should put things right for Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman