DRN-1811435
The complaint
Mr W complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV (CIGNA) have 
mishandled his rent arrears claim.
CIGNA use intermediaries to help administer their landlords insurance policy, so any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts/omissions of 
such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr W holds a landlords legal expenses policy with CIGNA. The tenant left his property 
without paying the last months rent. Mr W made a claim under his policy for the rent arrears, 
which was accepted and £1,300 paid by the insurer.
A proportion of the tenants security deposit was paid to Mr W by the relevant deposit 
protection scheme in recognition of damage caused to the property and unpaid bills etc. But 
he was unhappy when CIGNA demanded that the deposit be paid to them after making 
allowable deductions for sums paid towards rectifying dilapidations. In total, they said Mr W 
had to pay them £935.12.
Mr W complained as he said he needed to use the deposit to cover fees and bills that the 
tenant didnt pay, as well as to fund refurbishments to bring the property back to a suitable 
state to be re-let. But CIGNA said these were not allowable deductions from the deposit 
under the policy terms and conditions. Mr W also complained about the handling of his claim 
and subsequent complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that the policy terms entitled 
CIGNA to the remaining deposit, and that they hadnt acted unfairly by not allowing Mr W to 
make further deductions. Mr W disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
Mr W submits that he should be able to deduct unpaid utility bills (£177.97), the agents 
check out fee (£84) and nominal fees (£185) from the tenant security deposit before CIGNA 
is able to claim what remains. 
The policy terms and conditions state that CIGNA will cover:
Loss of rent:
up to vacant possession; and
where the limit of indemnity allows, 50% of the sum equivalent to the rent for 
three months after vacant possession, once the property is available for re-
letting.
But the policy also sets out certain conditions in respect of the tenancy agreement and how 
the deposit should be handled, including which deductions are allowable:
The tenancy deposit shall initially be used to reduce the insurers liability in the first 
instance. 
The cost of dilapidations which are the fault of the tenant will be refunded from the 
tenancy deposit upon conclusion of the claim. 
The tenancy deposit shall not be used for administrative costs due to be paid to the 
agent by the tenant or the guarantor.
Mr W says that the deposit protection scheme allows the landlord to claim for a range of 
different matters, and that CIGNAs policy does not highlight how having such a policy may 
lead to one forgoing their rights of the deposit scheme. 
I appreciate Mr W may not have been made aware of the term. But such a complaint would 
need to be directed to the firm that sold him the policy in the first place. CIGNA are not 
responsible for the sale of the policy, so I will not be commenting on this any further within 
this decision. Instead, I have considered whether CIGNA have acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and have treated Mr W fairly. 
I do not consider the relevant term allowing the insurer to use the deposit to reduce their 
liability to be inherently unfair. The deposit itself is essentially a form of insurance for the 
landlord, so if CIGNA indemnifies a claim for loss which the deposit could also be used to 
rectify, they are within their rights to insist that it is used to offset their liability so that the 
landlord does not receive double the compensation they are due from the deposit and the 
insurance claim. 
So Ive gone on to consider the various deductions Mr W wants to make from the deposit 
before paying the remainder to CIGNA, and whether he would be entitled to make these 
deductions under the policy terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions state that the policyholder can only make deposit deductions for 
the cost of dilapidations. The policy does not specifically define dilapidations, but the 
insurer has adopted the definition set out in the Royal Institute of Charters Surveyors (RICS) 
consumer guide as referring to breaches of lease covenants that relate to the condition of a 
property during the term of the tenancy or when the lease ends. The dictionary definition 
also refers to dilapidations as relating to damage caused to a property, or of something that 
requires a repair that is the responsibility of the tenant. So I do not think CIGNA have 
adopted an unfair or unusually restrictive interpretation of this term.
As a result, CIGNA said that Mr W was not entitled to deduct the unpaid utility bill and check 
out fee from the deposit. Mr W says it was important for the electricity bill to be paid quickly 
to prevent the flats power from being cut off by the energy company. But however valid the 
reason for Mr W paying the bill, it does not reasonably constitute a dilapidation as it is not 
related to the condition of the property or damage that requires a repair. And the same goes 
for the checkout fee as an administrative cost (which the policy also expressly states shall 
not be deducted from the deposit). So I do not consider CIGNA to have acted unfairly by not 
allowing these costs to be deducted from the deposit. I appreciate that the policy terms may be at odds with what the deposit protection scheme allows a landlord to deduct. But Mr W 
could have pursued the tenant without making a claim on his policy, where he would have 
been free to make deductions in line with the deposit protection scheme. And by making a 
claim for rent arrears and accepting the insurers settlement, he has effectively agreed to be 
bound by the terms and conditions of the policy, which allow CIGNA to specify how the 
deposit shall be used, meaning he has thereby waived his rights that would usually apply 
under the deposit protection scheme. 
In terms of the nominal fees, Mr W submits that £185 should be deducted for damage 
caused by the tenant such as dents, scuffs and scratches. He says this was quantified by a 
third-party company that highlight damage that is beyond reasonable wear and tear. 
However, the policy states:
Upon vacant possession, the insured must ensure a detailed inventory is prepared 
of the contents and condition of the property together with, if applicable a schedule of 
dilapidations, by way of proper receipted invoices and distribute the deposit monies 
as detailed in General Condition 4  Tenancy Agreement and Tenancy Deposit.
CIGNA did not deem Mr Ws nominal fees to be an allowable deduction because no repairs 
were actually carried out on the various elements of damage identified. Mr W says this is 
because it may have cost more to repair certain dilapidations than the deposit scheme would 
have allowed (replacing the kitchen worktop due to a few holes, for example). But the policy 
states that dilapidations must be evidenced by proper receipted invoices. Mr W does not 
have any receipted invoices for repairing the scuffs/scratches etc. So he has not suffered a 
financial loss as he has not had to make a payment towards repairing the damage. And if the 
deductions were allowed, I cant ignore that it could result in betterment as Mr W would 
effectively be receiving reimbursement for costs that have not actually been incurred. So I do 
not think CIGNA have acted unreasonably by refusing to allow the nominal fees to be 
deducted from the deposit. I appreciate that Mr W may have suffered a loss in the sense that 
parts of his property have been damaged (for example, he says the lifespan of the kitchen 
worktop has been diminished). But if that is the case then this is something that should be 
claimed under his buildings insurance rather than rent indemnity.  
CIGNA did allow £352 to be deducted in respect of other documented dilapidations however, 
which left £935.12 of the deposit remaining to be refunded to the insurer after their initial 
claim payment of £1,300. Mr W says that the insurer withheld payment of the rent for 
January 2019. But vacant possession of the property was obtained on 15 January 2019 and 
was re-let just two days after on 17 January 2019. And I can see that the rent arrears up to 
17 January 2019 were included in CIGNAs settlement calculation. So Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the insurer has withheld any payment for rent in January 2019 that is due under 
the policy.
Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied the claim has been calculated and settled 
fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions. So I do not consider it unreasonable for 
CIGNA to request payment of the remaining security deposit to reduce their liability.
Mr W is further dissatisfied with CIGNAs handling of his claim and the time taken to 
progress matters. I appreciate that Mr W may have had to dedicate more time than expected 
on his claim, and has had to make numerous phone calls and send emails etc. But the vast 
majority of insurance claims will always require a certain an amount of time and 
administration.
In terms of the time taken to settle the claim, I can also see that the insurer required further 
information in order to fully consider all elements of the claim, and it appears that CIGNA 
didnt have all the relevant information they needed until 17 June 2019. The insurer is entitled to request relevant information in order to properly assess the claim, and Im not 
persuaded their handling of matters has led to any significant delays. And although I 
appreciate Mr W was not impressed with the overall service he received, Im not persuaded 
they have done anything substantially wrong that would warrant an award of compensation 
in these circumstances.
Finally, Mr W has said he is also unhappy with the way CIGNA handled his complaint. 
However, complaint handling is not a regulated activity or a financial service, so Im unable 
to consider this as it falls outside of our compulsory jurisdiction.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman