DRN-2921060
The complaint
Mr D complains that Oplo CF Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Car Finance (1st Stop), irresponsibly 
granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mr D acquired a used car. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with 1st Stop. The cash price of the car was £13,899 and Mr D paid a deposit of 
£1,899. The total repayable under the agreement was £23,219.40 and monthly repayments 
of £355.01 were to be made over a five-year period. After all payments were made Mr D 
would own the car.
Mr D says that 1st Stop didnt complete adequate affordability checks and if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 1st Stop didnt agree. It said that it completed 
creditworthiness and affordability checks and that it had looked at Mr Ds credit file when 
making its lending decision. It explained that the process was automatic but that amongst 
other considerations it would have reviewed Mr Ds income, credit history, debt collection 
searches and any County Court judgments against him. It said the automated system didnt 
identify any concerns and the credit was therefore approved. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought 1st Stop ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr D.
1st stop didnt agree, they said that Mr D had confirmed the agreement would be affordable 
and had subsequently made all payments on time. They reviewed the information available 
in his bank statements and thought there was evidence that monthly payments were 
affordable, and that Mr D had sufficient disposable income to meet any emergency spending 
needs.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1st Stop will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
1st Stop say they didnt review Mr Ds bank statements but that they completed a credit 
check and verified Mr Ds income. Mr Ds credit file showed he had an outstanding balance 
of £17,543 for loans and that he had other outstanding credit of £725. He was regularly only 
making minimum payments to his debts and there was a monthly payment of £465 towards 
a loan hed recently taken out. The income information 1st Stop had, suggested Mr Ds salary 
was £1,950 per month and given the amount of debt and the recent credit applications noted 
in his credit file, I think 1st Stop should have made further enquiries to check Mr Ds 
outgoings. So, I dont think 1st stop completed reasonable and proportionate checks.
I think it would have been proportionate for 1st Stop to have found out more about Mr Ds 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what 1st Stop would 
have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable 
to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ds bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. They 
show direct debits for Mr Ds mobile phone, TV cable supplier, TV license, credit cards and 
personal loans of £640 per month and payments towards food and transport of around £350. 
There were cash withdrawals of about £400 per month and as the statements dont show 
council tax, utility spend and rent it would seem reasonable to suggest these withdrawals 
were to fund those payments: Mr D has since confirmed that was the case. In total the 
expenditure shown on the statements is about £1,400 per month. Statements also show the 
salary 1st Stop were considering was a little overstated and should have been about £1,900. 
So, its fair to say a reasonable and proportionate check of Mr Ds financial circumstances 
would have most likely revealed he had about £500 of disposable income from which to 
make payments towards his £355 per month agreement with 1st Stop. 
I dont think that suggests the agreement was affordable for Mr D as there was very little left 
from which Mr D could afford petrol, car tax, car insurance and emergency spending. It 
would be unlikely that Mr D would be able to afford to sustainably make payments towards 
his agreement and I therefore dont think 1st Stop acted fairly by approving the finance.
  
Putting things right
As I dont think 1st Stop ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all the 
payments Mr D has made, including any deposit. However, Mr D did has had use of the car 
since the agreement started in August 2018, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im 
not persuaded that monthly repayments of over £355 a month are a fair reflection of what 
fair usage would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards 
repaying interest.
1st Stop Finance have said that Mr D has already paid more than the cash price of the car 
and Mr D still has the car and has continued to make the payments under the agreement. If 
thats the case, I think its fair to allow 1st Stop to retain the payments up to the cash value of 
£13,899 in respect of the fair use Mr D has had from the car. Mr D should be allowed to keep 
the vehicle and anything hes paid beyond the cash value should be returned to him with 
interest.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oplo CF Ltd to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
calculate exactly how much Mr D has paid to date and if he has paid the cash price 
of the car the business can keep this amount and Mr D can keep the car with the 
ownership transferred to him;
If Mr D has paid over the cash price of the car, then any overpayments should be
refunded back to him with 8% simple interest per year* from date of payments to the 
date of settlement;
remove any negative information they may have reported to Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to this agreement.*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo CF Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oplo CF 
Ltd must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman