DRN-4306594
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him the £6,500 he lost when 
he fell victim to a vehicle purchase scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In October 2021, Mr R saw a private advert for a vehicle on a well-known online 
marketplace. He contacted the seller and agreed a price which included delivery. On 30 
October 2021, Mr R transferred £6,500 to the business he thought hed purchased the 
vehicle through. However, when the vehicle wasnt delivered and he couldnt contact the 
seller anymore, he realised hed been scammed. 
The bank said it didnt believe the payment Mr R made was unusual considering his normal 
account activity or that it should have flagged for further fraud/security checks. It also felt that 
Mr R didnt carry out sufficient verification checks to provide him with a reasonable basis for 
believing the seller genuinely owned the vehicle and that it was for sale.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint as she felt that Mr R didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief and that a warning wouldnt have made a difference.
Mr Rs representative accepted the investigators conclusions regarding Mr Rs reasonable 
basis for belief. But it felt that the payment purpose along with paying a business account as 
a new payee ought to have raised concerns with the bank. It therefore felt a 50% refund was 
appropriate.
I wrote to Mr Rs representative informally as I was minded to reach the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator but wanted to expand on the reasoning given.
In particular I explained that Mr Rs payment purpose choice made it very difficult for Lloyds 
to give a tailored and impactful warning. So, I didnt find that Lloyds had failed in its 
obligation to provide an effective warning. But I also concluded that as Mr R didnt see the 
relevant warning - I couldnt say Mr R ignored an effective warning either. I also explained 
why I didnt consider Lloyds could have done more to try and prevent the scam or recover Mr 
Rs funds once it knew hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr R disagreed. Mr R does not agree that a warning was provided to him and would like a 
copy of the warning to be given. He also wishes to make it clear that he did not select the 
incorrect payment purpose intentionally and believes this was the most suitable option at the 
time.
As the case could not be resolved informally, I need to reach a final decision in this case.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr R authorised the payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have reimbursed Mr R in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mr R from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr R was tricked into making the payment. He thought he 
would receive a vehicle in exchange for his money and this wasnt the case. But this isnt 
enough, in itself, for Mr R to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code
Lloyds has signed up to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. 
It is for Lloyds to establish that one or more of the exceptions apply as set out under the 
CRM Code. Those exceptions are: 
Mr R ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
Mr R made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom Mr R transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
The CRM Code also outlines the standards a firm is expected to meet. And it says that when 
assessing whether the firm has met those standards, consideration must be given to 
whether compliance with those standards would have had a material effect on preventing the 
APP scam that took place.
Having considered everything, while Im sorry that Mr R has been the victim of a cruel scam, 
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator broadly for the same reasons. 
As Mr Rs representative has accepted the investigators conclusions about reasonable 
basis of belief - Ive havent gone over those details again  but I do agree with those 
conclusions. Instead, I have focused on the reason Mr R and his representative asked for a 
decision.Did Lloyds meet its obligations under the CRM Code and did Mr R ignore an effective 
warning?
The CRM Code says that effective warnings should be risk based and, where possible, 
tailored to the APP scam risk indicators and any specific APP scam types identified through 
the user interface with which the customer is initiating the payment instructions.
It seems that Lloyds did provide a warning for moving my money which is what Mr R 
selected at the time the payment was processed. I haven't repeated the warning that was 
shown during the online payment process because Mr Rs choice made it very difficult for 
Lloyds to give a tailored and impactful warning. It's also the case that, had answering as he 
arguably ought to have done (by selecting something bought online) led to a warning that 
met the definition of effective under the CRM Code (that's not a finding I need to make 
here), it would be irrelevant because Mr R didnt see that particular warning. So, I don't find 
that Lloyds has failed in its obligation to provide an effective warning, but I cant say Mr R 
ignored an effective warning either.
I appreciate Mr R did not intentionally select the incorrect payment purpose. But it would still 
not be fair for me to conclude Lloyds failed in its obligation to provide an effective warning on 
this basis. Neither would it be fair for me to conclude Mr R ignored an effective warning  
thats because he didnt see the most appropriate warning. 
Mr R acknowledged he selected an alternative payment purpose  indeed this formed part of 
his representatives detailed submissions about the fact this ought to have flagged as a 
concern with Lloyds. So, the warning that triggered wasnt relevant to his circumstances and 
for the reasons Ive explained above  that warning is not material to this decision. I 
appreciate Mr R would like to see a copy of the warning and evidence of it, but I have 
already said this is not relevant or material to my decision in this case. So, I dont think 
providing this to Mr R makes a difference to my outcome. 
Mr Rs representative also originally complained that Mr R didnt see a purchasing 
something online warning  thereby acknowledging this was the most appropriate option. 
I appreciate Mr R says he didnt see a warning but its more likely than not an automatic 
warning would have popped up in response to the payment purpose given. Although I do 
appreciate Mr R might now not recall seeing it. 
Should Lloyds have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr R?
As well as the CRM Code, a bank still has wider obligations and a duty to protect its 
customers, as far as is reasonably possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and 
scams. As such, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Mr Rs representative argues that the payment purpose "move my money" along with then 
paying a business account as a new payee ought to have raised concerns. It has argued 
that the paying of a business account does not match the payment purpose and the bank 
should have consequently made contact with Mr R and the scam would have unravelled. 
I understand the argument it is making but I dont think Lloyds would have had reason to be 
concerned. Overall, the payment doesnt look unusual or suspicious. Mr R had made a 
number of faster payments for high value amounts over the months prior to the scam. He 
had also made several large transactions that appear to be vehicle related. Banks cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. There is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. I am mindful that the payment purpose selected is quite general and could be open to interpretation. I think it unrealistic to expect a bank to be involved every 
time a consumer enters a payment journey that might not match the assumed purpose of the 
destination account. It did appear to be going to a business account rather than an individual 
- arguably adding to an element of legitimacy. Overall, I dont think the transaction Mr R 
made stood out as being unusual based on his historical activity or that Lloyds ought 
reasonably to have identified a risk based on the consumers payment purpose entry and the 
type of account or name on the destination account.
Did Lloyds do enough to recover Mr Rs funds?
Ive thought about whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to recover Mr Rs funds once it was 
made aware he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made on 30 October 
2021 at 18:42 and Mr R reported the scam to Lloyds on 1 November 2021. Lloyds contacted 
the receiving bank the same day but no funds remained. I have seen the evidence which 
shows all the money had left the scammers account by 19:10 on 30 October 2021. So 
before Mr R had a chance to report it to Lloyds. This is not unusual as scammers usually 
remove funds within hours. So Lloyds couldnt have done any more to try and recover Mr Rs 
money.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr R. I sympathise with his 
circumstances, and I am sorry he has fallen victim to a scam. But having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman