DRN-1847723
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
when he made a fraud claim. 
What happened
Mr B has a credit card with Halifax, which he says he only uses when hes overseas.
Mr B called Halifax in September 2019, after hed noticed two retail transactions for £32.97 
and £50 along with several payments to an online streaming service, which he didnt make. 
Halifax accepted Mr B hadnt made the transactions and refunded them to Mr Bs account 
until it had made some enquiries with the merchant regarding one of the transactions.
The bank also cancelled Mr Bs credit card and sent him a new card. But Halifax didnt 
contact the streaming service to stop the payments being taken from Mr Bs account. So, a 
further payment left Mr Bs account. Mr B contacted Halifax to complain. Halifax apologised 
for not sorting things out properly and refunded Mr B the transaction. The bank also paid 
Mr B £74 compensation to cover his call costs and any inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr B accepted the banks offer.
Halifax then contacted the merchant regarding the £32.97 transaction. The merchant said 
the transaction was genuine  in other words that Mr B had authorised the transaction. 
Halifax says it wrote to Mr B on 7 January 2020 asking him to provide more information 
about the transaction. And it gave Mr B two weeks to respond. Mr B says he never received 
the letter from the bank. So, he didnt get in touch with Halifax. As a result, the bank re-
debited £32.97 from Mr Bs account.
Mr B was upset to discover Halifax had re-debited the disputed transaction. He also 
discovered that a further payment to the online streaming service had debited his account in 
January 2020. So, he contacted the bank to complain again. Halifax apologised for not 
explaining it would contact the merchant and that the initial £32.97 refund had been 
temporary. And said it had contacted the streaming service to stop the ongoing payments. 
The bank offered Mr B £75 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused. And a 
further £17 to cover his call costs. So, in total £92.
Mr B didnt think this offer adequately reflected the amount of trouble and upset hed 
suffered. He said he had to spend a number of hours on the phone to the bank, he didnt 
receive the letter from the bank in January 2020, hed had his credit card cancelled more 
than once and the bank didnt explain to him that the £32.97 transaction would be re-debited. 
So, he brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into his 
complaint.
 
The investigator didnt think Halifax handled things as well as it could have done. In 
particular he hadnt seen any evidence that the bank had sent Mr B a letter in January 2020 
or explained that the £32.97 would be re-debited if the merchant defended the payment. He 
also said Halifax hadnt contacted the streaming service soon enough, which meant Mr B 
had to call the bank each month to dispute the transaction between October 2019 and 
January 2020. But he didnt think the bank should do any more than it had offered to settle 
the matter  which in total had been £166 compensation. This was made up of £74 Mr B had 
already received and a further offer of £92. Mr B disagreed. He says Halifax hasnt done 
enough to put things right.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I agree with the investigators assessment, and for similar 
reasons.
 
Theres no dispute that the bank didnt handle things well. It should have made more than 
one attempt to contact Mr B about the £32.97 payment. And explained the process it follows 
when investigating fraud claims to Mr B clearly  that it would contact the merchant, could 
ask Mr B for more information. And that any refund was temporary whilst it completed its 
enquiries. Ive not seen any evidence that the bank did this. The bank also didnt contact the 
online streaming service to arrange the monthly payments being taken from Mr Bs account 
to stop until the end of December 2019 despite Mr B telling the bank in October 2019, that 
the payments were continuing to debit his account. So, I can see why Mr B is upset. He was 
the innocent victim of fraud and the bank made things more difficult for him. And Mr B had to 
spend time and effort making further calls to the bank to try and sort things out. 
Mr B did get his money back. The bank refunded all the disputed transactions. So, Mr B 
hasnt suffered a financial loss because of what happened. Its not for me to make the bank 
change the way it operates, thats the role of the regulator. But I do think Mr B suffered 
unnecessary trouble and upset because of Halifaxs poor service. The bank has accepted it 
should have dealt with things better. It paid Mr B £75 compensation in December 2019, and 
offered him a further £92, before our service got involved,  which is a total of £166.
I know Mr B wont agree, but I think the additional £92 Halifax has offered is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Bs complaint. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything 
more. I simply leave it to Mr B to decide, whether on reflection, he wishes to accept the 
banks offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman