DRN-2159954
The complaint
Miss F complains that she didnt receive notice that the fixed rate on her savings account 
was going to end. 
What happened
In January 2018 Miss F selected a new Post Office account that came with a promotional 
fixed rate period of 12 months. The fixed rate period ended in January 2019 and the interest 
rate reduced from 1.3% to 0.25%. 
In October 2019 Miss F contacted Post Office and complained that she hadnt been notified 
before the interest rate on her savings account had reduced. Miss F says she has lost 
around £1,000 in interest as a result. 
Post Office issued its final response on 29 November 2019 but didnt uphold Miss Fs 
complaint. Post Office said it had sent Miss F an email on 7 January 2019 to says the bonus 
rate was coming to an end. Miss F has told us she didnt receive this email. 
Miss F referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They also 
thought Post Office had sent Miss F an email in January 2019 as it claimed. The investigator 
thought Post Office had dealt with Miss Fs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. 
Miss F asked to appeal and said Post Office needed to prove she received its email. As 
Miss F asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss F has held similar products with Post Office over the years. Miss F has 
told us that if she had received Post Offices email she would have taken action to select a 
new product. I understand Miss F relied on Post Offices contact to remind her she needed 
to take action. In response to the investigator, Miss F has said that Post Office should have 
to prove that she received its email. But its not possible for Post Office or this service to 
prove with absolute certainty whether Miss F received its email on 7 January 2019. 
Where the circumstances of a complaint are disputed by the parties involved, I will base my 
decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have occurred 
based on all the available information. I understand Miss Fs point that she didnt receive the 
email in question. However, I have to be fair to both parties and Post Office has provided a 
lot of information that shows the email was sent as it claims. 
Post Office has shown that it has sent regular emails to Miss F using the same email 
address both before and after 7 January 2019. Post Offices systems information also shows 
that it sent Miss F an email on 7 January 2019 advising that the rate on the savings account 
would change. Ive seen a copy of the specific email Post Office sent as well. Taking 
everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied that Post Office did email Miss F on 
7 January 2019 to tell her the rate on her savings account was due to change.
I also think its reasonable to note that the promotional fixed rate period Miss F selected was 
only ever going to last 12 months, at which point the account would revert to a variable rate. 
When Post Office reduced the interest rate, it did so in line with the account terms. Im sorry 
to disappoint Miss F, but I havent found anything to show Post Office has treated her 
unfairly or failed to act in line with the account terms. 
Miss F has pointed out that she earned less interest as a result of the lower rate she 
received. But as Post Office has managed her account in line with the terms and conditions 
and applied the correct interest rates based on its instructions, I havent found grounds to 
uphold this complaint. As Im satisfied Post Office has dealt with Miss Fs complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman