DRN-3333784
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc were unable to locate an online payment shed 
made for several months meaning she had to make a second payment causing her a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mrs D had been living abroad for several months and in March 2021, she made an online 
banking transfer from her HSBC account to her landlord  a payment shed made several 
times before. 
However the payment didnt arrive. Mrs D waited a couple of days for the payment to arrive 
but when it didnt, she contacted HSBC. She explained that she was leaving the country in a 
couple of days and needed to make the payment to the landlord  who was becoming 
increasingly concerned  before she left. HSBC agreed to activate a trace to recall the 
money.
Mrs D hadnt heard from HSBC and was worried about making the payment a second time. 
So she went directly to the landlords bank who Ill call E to see if theyd received the 
payment. Mrs D said E told her they couldnt locate the payment and there was also no 
evidence it had reached the intermediary bank or the landlords account. The landlord was 
still chasing the outstanding payment, so Mrs D felt there was no option but to pay it again 
directly to the account. 
Around two weeks after the first payment had been made, Mrs D returned to the UK. She 
contacted HSBC numerous times over the following months, but the bank said it hadnt had 
a response from E. Mrs D complained to HSBC as she was unhappy with the service shed 
received. Shortly after, HSBC were able to confirm that the first payment had been made to 
the landlord the day after Mrs D had made the transfer.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it raised an issue with E as soon as Mrs D 
had made it aware there was a problem. HSBC also explained it had to give E time to 
respond to their enquiry. The bank said it had done its best to recover the first payment, but 
it was unable to take any more action  and suggested Mrs D pursue this directly with the 
landlord herself. However, HSBC acknowledged Mrs D was unhappy and offered her £50 as 
a gesture of goodwill. Mrs D remained unhappy and asked this service to look into the 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought HSBC had taken 
sufficient steps to recover the first payment and it wasnt fair to ask the bank to refund the 
payment as a gesture of goodwill as it hadnt made an error. The investigator acknowledged 
HSBC could have updated Mrs D sooner when it was aware the first payment had been 
made correctly  but she didnt think this would have made a difference as it was weeks after 
the second payment had been made.
Mrs D didnt agree and felt it was HSBCs fault the first payment hadnt been made correctly. 
So she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs D is unhappy as she believes it was HSBCs fault the first payment didnt reach the 
landlords bank account. But I dont agree. I say this because Mrs D made the payment 
herself using her online banking and input the payment details herself  so HSBC had no 
control over where the payment went to, only how it arrived. Furthermore, the bank received 
confirmation from E that the first payment was received the day after it had been transferred 
- which I think shows the transaction processed as expected by HSBC. So Im not 
persuaded an error occurred with the system. 
I recognise Mrs D was told by both the landlord and E when she went to the branch that this 
wasnt the case. However, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for Mrs D being giving 
incorrect information by the third parties. I also acknowledge Mrs D thinks HSBC didnt do 
enough to recover the first payment, and that if the bank had told her sooner that it had been 
made correctly, she wouldnt have made the second payment. However, Ive seen that 
HSBC did raise a request for a refund as soon as Mrs D made the bank was aware there 
was an issue  and that it chased this on several occasions. 
Unfortunately, HSBC was reliant on Es timescales for responding and for them to 
investigate the refund request with the landlord. I recognise Mrs Ds frustration about the 
timescales involved as this meant shed left the country before receiving a response, and 
that she thinks the bank should have been able to call E directly. But the delays were outside 
HSBCs control and it needed to give E a reasonable opportunity to respond to any 
enquiries. Its also not possible for the bank to call E directly as it has explained the only way 
it could contact E was electronically through the SWIFT process. So I think the bank did 
attempt to recover the first payment and the actions it took were fair.
Mrs D believes its unreasonable HSBC have told her to attempt to recover the first payment 
herself. However, the bank has followed the agreed process between itself and E to raise a 
refund request and chased accordingly. As E confirmed the first payment had been received 
by the landlord - and wasnt missing in the system - there were no further actions HSBC 
could take to recover the payment. So I think it was reasonable for the bank to suggest to 
Mrs D she may wish to pursue this directly. 
I understand Mrs D believes its unfair shes lost her money as it wasnt her fault. She also 
thinks the £50 compensation offered by HSBC isnt enough and the bank should refund the 
payment. However, I havent seen evidence showing it was HSBCs fault the first payment 
wasnt received. Ive looked at HSBCs case notes and I can see the bank was aware 
several weeks prior to Mrs D contacting it, that the first payment had been received by the 
landlord the day after Mrs D had made it. But I think this had a limited impact on Mrs D. I say 
that because HSBC has already confirmed that it couldnt take the refund request further  
and even if the bank told Mrs D two weeks earlier, she had already left the country by that 
point and would have been in the same position she is now. 
Mrs D also told us she feels HSBC treated her unfairly as she had to repeatedly chase the 
bank for updates. However, Ive seen evidence from the bank that it did contact Mrs D by 
phone and email to update her on the progress of its investigation. And when Mrs D asked 
HSBC to continue requesting information from E that the bank agreed to do so. So I agree 
that HSBC could have updated Mrs D sooner once it had confirmation from E about the 
payment, but I think the bank did update her when it had information to share. Ive also seen that HSBC has apologised for the delay and offered Mrs D £50 compensation 
- which I think is fair considering the circumstances of the complaint. I recognise Mrs D will 
be disappointed with my decision as she wanted HSBC to refund her £800. But based on 
what Ive seen, I think HSBC has done enough to put things right - so I wont be asking it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay 
Mrs D £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman