DRN-2693448
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard will not agree to a
charitable write off of his credit card balance and have registered a default.
What happened
Mr L used a Barclaycard for expenses due to personal circumstances. He had to reduce his
hours at work due to the family circumstances which resulted in him being unable to make
the contractual monthly payments on his Barclaycard.
Mr L asked Barclaycard if they could write off the debt under a charitable write off due to the
family circumstances, as other credit card companies did. He provided letters from hospitals
explaining the situation. Barclaycard said that he did not meet the criteria for the charitable
and did not grant his request.
Due to Mr Ls circumstances Barclaycard agreed that no interest or charges would be added
to the outstanding balance and placed the account on hold.
Barclaycard issued check in letters to Mr L explaining that they didnt expect him to make
payments while his account was on hold but informed him that they were staying in touch
with credit agencies to let them know he isnt making payments. The letters also told Mr L
that a default notice would likely to be sent to him.
A default notice dated 16 March 2020 informed Mr L he had until 19 May 2020 to make an
arrangement and bring his account up to date. Mr L contacted Barclaycard but no
arrangement could be made as his outgoings were more than this income. The default
notice informed Mr L that if his situation didnt change the default would be registered but
Barclaycard would still not charge any interest or fees on the outstanding balance.
Mr L complained to Barclaycard as he said they werent taking his family circumstances into
account and the customer service had resulted in delays to his requests. He also said
Barclaycard were going to register a default when his personal circumstances were going to
get worse, this would impact on his ability to move to a new house and again asked for a
charitable write off for the debt.
Barclaycard agreed the level of customer service given was below what they expect. They
credited Mr Ls account with £50 with the offer to transfer this to his bank account if he
wanted but did not uphold the rest of his complaint regarding the default or charitable write
off.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service as he didnt believe the responses from
Barclaycard resolved his complaint. Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint as she
said Barclaycard should back the date of the default to November 2019 when Mr L informed
them he would be unable to make payments. Our investigator said she had looked at
Barclaycards criteria for charitable write offs and that Mr L wouldnt be eligible so she
couldnt ask Barclaycard to write off the balance.
Both parties disagreed with the outcome, so the case was referred to an Ombudsman. Mr L
said Barclaycard treated him unfairly in his circumstances. Barclaycard said they were
unable to backdate the default to November 2019 as this would be in breach of their
agreements with credit reference agencies (as Mr L wouldnt have been in arrears for at
least three months). They offered to backdate the default to when Mr L was three months in
arears  January 2020.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill start by saying that its clear to me what a difficult time Mr L has been through and
is going through here. Hes clearly trying to be proactive in dealing with his finances at a very
tough time.
But, even with everything that Mr L has said about his situation, that doesnt mean that
Barclaycard should write his debt off. It may help if I say that the general position here is that
a business is entitled to ask a customer to repay money that theyve borrowed. So as an
impartial service, we will rarely recommend that a business writes off a debt where its rightly
owed.
So while other businesses may have made a decision to write off what Mr L owes to them 
that doesnt mean that Barclaycard has to here. Instead, they should have taken what Mr L
told them into account and then assessed whether they would be prepared to write off what
he owed based on that.
Thats what Barclaycard did here. Ive looked at Barclaycards criteria for a charitable write
off and can confirm that Mr Ls circumstances would not meet this. Ive noted the strength of
feeling from Mr L that this is unfair, but in the circumstances here, Barclaycard has done
what Id expect.
At the same time as asking for the write off, Mr L also told Barclaycard about his difficulties
with repayments. So Ive looked at what Barclaycard have done to help him. I see that
Barclaycard have placed the account on hold and have stopped charges and interest. They
have also refunded interest from June and July too. I think this is a fair outcome as the
outstanding balance will not be increasing while no payments are being made. In addition
they credited his account with £50 for poor customer service which I think is a fair amount as
this would have reflected the impact Mr L suffered here.
Barclaycard said that the account is still on hold due to his circumstances. I asked them if
the debt be sold to a third party and this is how they responded:
At the moment, it has not been sold but that may change in future. We often transfer some
accounts in the vulnerable category to a third party who specialises in dealing with
vulnerable customers. We are still not expecting him to make payments as long as his
circumstances remain the same. We may get in touch from time to time for an update on his
circumstances.
So Im satisfied that Barclays has treated Mr L fairly here and it looks to be willing to work
with him moving forward too, which is what Id expect.
I can understand its a difficult time and I can see the reasons why Mr L was unable to come
to an arrangement with Barclaycard. With regards to the entries on his credit file though,
Barclaycard have a duty to report activity accurately to credit agencies and appear to havereported activity on this account accurately including registering defaults. Barclaycard
registered a default as he was unable to make his monthly payments for a significant amount
of time. I realise thatll have a significant impact on Mr L  but it wouldnt be fair for me to tell
Barclaycard to remove information its recorded that accurately reflects the conduct of the
account.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Barclaycard allow up to six months. Mr Ls account was defaulted after six months
of none payment in line with their process. In the course of this complaint Barclaycard have
offered to backdate the registration of the default to January. This is the earliest that they
can backdate the default while following regulations for registering defaults. Although this
may be of little comfort to Mr L it does mean that the default will not remain on his credit file
for as long. I think this is fair as Mr Ls personal situation couldve changed at any time so
they gave him until May 2020 to try and make an arrangement to prevent a default. When
his personal situation didnt change then Barclaycard registered the default as they should
have done but I believe Barclaycard are being reasonable here by offering to backdate the
date of the default when they are not required to do so.
It follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anymore apart from backdating the default
to January 2020  the third payment missed.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard had no further comments to add, but Mr L responded with further 
comments. In summary he said the provisional decision didnt take into consideration the 
lack of support and options Barclaycard offered for his situation. Nor did he think Id fully 
addressed the impact of his mental health on the circumstances here. Mr L also said he 
feels that Barclaycard are still harassing him, forcing him to make contact and he attached 
a recent letter they sent him. Mr L said his personal circumstances havent changed which is 
really affecting his mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about Barclaycard giving him a lack of support and a 
lack of options. Ive also taken into account what hes said about how Barclaycard has 
treated him in light of what hes said about his mental health. While Barclaycard wont write 
off his outstanding balance, Im still not persuaded theyve gave him a lack of support or a 
lack of options here. I realise that Mr L will see it differently, so Ill explain why.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Barclaycard have placed the account on hold and 
have stopped charges and interest. This means the outstanding balance wont increase 
while payments arent being made. They have also refunded interest from June and July too. 
Barclaycard is under no obligation to take these steps here, so I think theyre helpful things 
to do and show that they are willing to try and help Mr L  even if that help doesnt go as far 
as he thinks it should. Theyve also offered to backdate the default, which means it will be 
removed from his credit file sooner than if they registered the actual default date.
Ive looked at the letter Barclaycard have recently sent him. Letters like this will sometimes 
be worrying to receive and read, but they have to be sent so the business can tell a 
customer what will happen, or has happened, to an account. 
The letter explains that Barclaycard asked Mr L to contact them to ensure he was getting the 
right level of support but as they hadnt heard from him they would place the account on hold for a final 30 days. Ive taken on board what Mr L has said about his mental health here  but 
equally Barclaycard cant keep the account on hold here indefinitely. So its important Mr L 
contacts Barclaycard to work with them on a solution which can take into account his 
personal circumstances, otherwise Barclaycard are entitled to take further action in relation 
to whats owed here, as the letter outlines. 
Barclaycard have said to Mr L in their recent letter that theres extra support if he needs it 
and theyve given Mr L details of debt management charities. So if its affecting Mr Ls 
mental health by speaking directly to Barclaycard then he may wish to speak to one of the 
debt charities suggested. They might be able to help him further here by providing more 
generalised support and help in relation to his financial situation and how he can manage 
this.
In summary, Mr Ls response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr L will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should backdate the default to January 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman