DRN-3614014
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against his travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre
includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D has a travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre.
During a trip, Mr D injured his ankle. He sought medical treatment and made a claim
against his policy.
Mapfre made enquiries about Mr Ds fitness to fly, which Ill refer to in more detail below.
I understand that Mr D returned home on 23 October 2020, on a flight arranged by
Mapfre.
Mr D is unhappy about the assistance Mapfre gave him whilst abroad and its handling of
his claim. He complains that Mapfre tried to force him to fly against medical advice and
threatened to cancel his policy if he didnt fly home. Mr D wants compensation of £5,000
for the poor service he received.
During the course of Mr Ds complaint with this service, Mapfre offered compensation of
£200. That wasnt acceptable to Mr D.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that compensation
of £350 was fair in this case.
Mapfre agreed with the investigator. Mr D didnt think that compensation of £350 was
sufficient. He said that Mapfre was prepared to leave him in pain and made threats about
cancelling his policy if he missed a medical appointment or didnt fly against medical
advice. Mr D said that Mapfres actions caused him an incredible amount of stress. He
said that Mapfre didnt supply him with additional aid when he said that he couldnt
manage with crutches. And he thought that it was unreasonable for Mapfre to rely on his
wife to assist him as they were travelling with their infant son. Mr D said that there was
no car seat for his son for the taxi home from the UK airport.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to
decide.
My provisional decision
On 11 July 2022, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr D has strong feelings about this matter. Hes
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully
and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that Mr D will not take as
a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central issues in the case.
Mapfre hasnt provided this service with its complete file in relation to this claim and
complaint but it has provided a document showing the advice it received from its medical
adviser and enquiries Mapfre made in response to that. Ive proceeded on the basis of the
information thats available.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as
follows:
Emergency and Medical Service
[]
In the event of Your Bodily Injury or Illness which may lead to in-patient hospital treatment
or before any arrangements are made for repatriation or in the event of Curtailment
necessitating Your early return to Your Home Area You must contact the Emergency
Assistance Service. The service is available to You and operates 24 hours a day, 365 days
a year for advice, assistance, making arrangements for hospital admission, repatriation and
authorisation of medical expenses. If this is not possible because the condition requires
immediate emergency treatment You must contact the Emergency Assistance Service as
soon as possible.
Private medical treatment is not covered unless authorised specifically by the Emergency
Assistance Service.
Medical Assistance Abroad
The Emergency Assistance Service has the medical expertise, contacts and facilities to help
should You be injured in an accident or fall ill. The Emergency Assistance Service will also
arrange transport to Your Home Area when this is considered to be medically necessary or
when You have notice of serious illness or death of a Close Relative at home.
Payment for Medical Treatment Abroad
If You are admitted to a hospital/clinic while abroad, the Emergency Assistance Service 
will arrange for medical expenses covered by the policy to be paid direct to the 
hospital/clinic. To take advantage of this benefit someone must contact the Emergency 
Assistance Service for You as soon as possible.
Section B: Emergency Medical and Other Expenses 
What is Covered
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, for the following 
expenses which are necessarily incurred as a result of You suffering unforeseen Bodily 
Injury, illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine or complications as a direct result of 
pregnancy:
1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and nursing fees and charges incurred 
outside of Your Home Area.
[]
4. Reasonable additional transport (economy class) or accommodation expenses 
incurred, up to the standard of Your original booking, if it is medically necessary for You 
to stay beyond Your scheduled return date. This includes, with the prior authorisation of 
the Emergency Assistance Service, reasonable additional transport or accommodation 
expenses for a friend, Travelling Companion or Close Relative to remain with You or 
travel to You from Your Home Area or escort You and additional travel expenses to 
return You to Your Home if You are unable to use the return ticket.5. With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Assistance Service, the additional costs 
incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including qualified attendants, 
to repatriate You to Your Home if it is medically necessary. Repatriation expenses will be
in respect only of the identical class of travel utilised on the outward journey unless the
Emergency Assistance Service agree otherwise.
Special Conditions Relating to Claims
1. You must give notice immediately to the Emergency Assistance Service of any 
Bodily Injury or illness which necessitates Your admittance to hospital as an inpatient 
or before any arrangements are made for Your repatriation.
2. In the event of Your Bodily Injury or illness We reserve the right to relocate You from 
one hospital to another and arrange for Your repatriation to Your Home Area at any time 
during the Trip. We will do this if in the opinion of the Medical Practitioner in attendance 
or the Emergency Assistance Service You can be moved safely and/or travel safely to 
Your Home Area to continue treatment.
What is Not Covered
[]
k) Expenses incurred as a result of Your decision not to be repatriated after the date when 
in the opinion of the Emergency Assistance Service it is safe to do so.
has the claim been handled fairly and reasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont 
think that Mapfre treated Mr D fairly and reasonably in this case. I say that because:
The medical report dated 6 October 2020 from Dr B said that Mr D was unfit to fly from  
6 October 2020 to 17 November 2020. Mapfre sought another opinion. I think it was 
entitled to do that. I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in arranging for Mr D to see a 
doctor about his fitness to fly. Thats what wed expect an insurer to do in the 
circumstances that arose here. I dont think that Mapfre was obliged to simply accept
the medical report dated 6 October 2020.
The medical certificate dated 12 October 2020 from Dr C said that Mr D would be fit to 
fly on 19 October 2020 and required a nurse escort, business class seat and 
wheelchair cabin seat and certain medication to prevent deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
Mapfre consulted its medical adviser then queried matters with Dr C. It said that the 
medication for DVT wasnt licensed for preventative use during flights, Mr D didnt 
need monitoring and was able to navigate stairs with crutches. Mapfre thought Dr C 
was taking an overly cautious approach, so it arranged for Mr D to see Dr Y.
Dr Ys report dated 12 October 2020 didnt mention Mr Ds fitness to fly but 
recommended that Mr Ds treatment continue for another four weeks and partial 
weight bearing with crutches. I understand that Mapfre sent Dr Ys report to the airline 
in order to obtain clearance for unescorted travel in business class, which the airline 
gave. On 13 October 2020, Mapfre told Mr D that there was a return flight on             
16 October 2020 and that hed have wheelchair assistance and a business class seat 
but no medical escort, as it wasnt medically necessary.
On 15 October 2020, Mapfre contacted Dr Cs hospital and said: 
I EXPECT HIM TO BE CLEARED FOR TRAVEL.IF YOUR DOCTORS FEEL HE IS NOT FIT TO FLY, THEN WE NEED DETAILED 
RATIONALE WHY -
THEN (sic) SIMPLY SAYING HE IS AT RISK OF A DVT IS
UNACCEPTABLE (ESPECIALLY AS HE HAS BEEN CLEARED FOR TRAVEL BY 
EMIRATES). []
Mapfre arranged Mr Ds repatriation without reference to all of the requirements 
mentioned by Dr C. Whilst it arranged a business class seat for Mr D, it didnt arrange 
for a nurse or any other escort. I think Mapfre arranged Mr Ds repatriation without 
proper regard to the additional help he required in accordance with the report of the 
doctor who had examined him. Its clear that Mapfre took a different view about Mr Ds 
fitness to fly and what he needed to return home safely. But Mapfres medical adviser 
hadnt examined Mr D. I think that Mapfre treated Mr D unfairly in disregarding the 
medical reports from the doctors who had examined him.
Theres reference in Mapfres notes to the difficulties in arranging a nurse escort 
because of entry requirements. Dr C said that a non-medical escort could assist Mr D 
to walk during the flight. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Mapfre explained 
to Mr D why it took a different view than the doctors who had examined him. And its 
not clear to me why Mapfre didnt arrange for a non-medical  escort.
I dont think its persuasive to say that the airline cleared Mr D for travel, as I 
understand that it did so after sight of one of three available medical reports, which 
didnt mention Mr Ds fitness to fly. And the airline didnt examine Mr D. The airline 
were relying on the information Mapfre had provided but I dont think this is a 
sufficiently persuasive reason for Mapfre to have not arranged the repatriation in line 
with the Dr Cs recommendations.
Mapfres action in arranging Mr Ds repatriation in the way that it did caused Mr D 
distress and inconvenience as he wasnt adequately accompanied on his return flight 
and had difficulty moving around the aircraft. And this was a flight of several hours. I 
think it was reasonable for Mr D to seek to have his wife sit near him on the plane, as 
Mapfre didnt make any other assistance available to him. I think that Mapfre should 
compensate Mr D for the additional cost he incurred in upgrading his wifes seat to 
business class. As Mr D has been kept out of the use of that money, Mapfre should 
also pay interest on that sum.
Mr D says Mapfre put pressure on him to return to the UK on 16 October 2020 and 
said that if he refused to fly on that date, it would withdraw cover. Mr Ds policy 
excludes cover for expenses incurred as a result of his decision not to be repatriated 
after the date when, in the opinion of the emergency assistance service, its safe to do 
so. But, in the particular circumstances here, I think Mapfre treated Mr D unfairly in 
saying that it would withdraw cover if he didnt take a flight on 16 October 2020. Thats 
because the medical evidence didnt support Mapfres conclusion that Mr D was fit to 
fly on that date, and it didnt clearly explain to him why it took a different view. I 
havent seen persuasive evidence which explains why Mapfre disagreed with Dr Cs 
recommendations and didnt follow Dr Ys recommendation or ask Dr Y for more 
information about fitness to fly. Mapfres actions caused Mr D distress and 
inconvenience as he was understandably worried about flying against medical advice 
and it was no doubt distressing to contemplate that his cover would be withdrawn.
I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in declining to cover Mr Ds consultation with a 
doctor for a second opinion. Mr Ds policy covers emergency medical fees, not fees 
for non-urgent treatment.Ive listened to the recording of the phone call Mr D has provided between him and 
Mapfre. The recording starts some time into the call. Mapfre was trying to tell Mr D 
that it wouldnt cover the cost of his further consultation with an orthopaedic specialist. 
Mr D was clearly frustrated, and the call became confrontational. I think Mapfre was 
trying to convey important information to Mr D. I dont think I can conclude from the 
recording that all of Mr Ds calls with Mapfre were poorly handled by it.
Mapfre arranged for a taxi for Mr D and his family to travel to the airport and from the 
UK airport to his home. Based on what Ive seen, and Mr Ds testimony, it didnt order 
a car seat for Mr Ds infant son. I dont think Mapfre put Mr Ds son at risk as it was 
open to Mr D to order another taxi and car seat. But this was no doubt a frustrating 
and upsetting matter.
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation for Mr Ds distress and 
inconvenience in this case. In all the circumstances, I think that compensation of £500 
is fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of 
Mr Ds distress and inconvenience caused by Mapfres errors Ive referred to above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mapfre and Mr D accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr D nor Mapfre have made any substantive comment on my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached. So, for the reasons and 
to the extent Ive explained, I think that Mapfre treated Mr D unfairly and unreasonably in its 
handling of his claim against his travel insurance policy. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Mapfre should:
reimburse Mr D for the cost he incurred in upgrading his wifes return flight to 
business class and pay interest on that sum at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date he made his claim to the date it makes the payment and
pay Mr D compensation of £500 in relation to his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. should take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman