DRN-2912110
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt carry out a transfer which 
hed asked it to make.
  
What happened
Mr F had an account with RBS. In December 2019, he wrote to RBS asking it to transfer 
some money to a relatives account. Mr F didnt receive any response to this letter. In 
February 2020, he sent an email to RBS, asking for an update. Mr F received no response to 
this email, so he wrote to the CEO of RBS in March 2020. He said he wasnt happy with the 
service from RBS and asked for the money transfer to be processed.
RBS logged this as a complaint and sent an acknowledgement to Mr F by email on 25 March 
2020. Mr F received this. But he said he didnt hear anything further from RBS, so he came 
to this service in June 2020. RBS said it had sent a final response letter to Mr F on 8 April 
2020. But this was sent by post, rather than email, and Mr F didnt receive it. The first time 
he saw the letter was when our investigator provided a copy, following her investigation.
RBS final response letter said that it didnt receive Mr Fs original letter requesting the 
transfer. It also said that the email address to which Mr F sent the message in February 
2020 isnt a genuine RBS email address, so it didnt receive that email either. It said the first 
communication it received from Mr F was his letter of March 2020.
The final response letter explained that Mr Fs account had become dormant due to lack of 
use over five years and had ultimately been closed by RBS. RBS said it wrote to Mr F to tell 
him that the account would be closed after nine months if no transactions took place. It said 
it didnt hear back from him, so the account was closed and the credit balance was 
transferred to a holding account.
RBS letter said that the funds could be retrieved from the holding account if Mr F completes 
a reclaim form and provides a certified copy of his identification. RBS said that, once Mr F 
has provided the information it needs, it will process the transfer.
Our investigator didnt think RBS had acted unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything. But Mr F 
didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Since then, RBS has offered to pay compensation of £50.00 to Mr F. This was 
to acknowledge the fact that the final response letter was sent by post, which delayed Mr F 
receiving information about his account. He rejected that offer, so Im now making a final 
decision on the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account allow RBS to close it by giving him 60 days 
notice if theres been no transaction in or out of the account for at least 24 months. His 
statements show that the last transaction on the account was in 2013. RBSs system notes 
confirm that Mr Fs account was closed on 13 January 2020 due to dormancy. RBS no 
longer has a copy of the letter which was sent to Mr F to tell him that his account would be 
closed. But Ive no reason to doubt that it was sent. So I find that RBS was entitled to close 
the account.
Im satisfied that the first time RBS knew of Mr Fs request to transfer the funds to his relative 
was when it received his letter of March 2020. Its unfortunate that his letter of December 
and email of February didnt reach RBS. But I dont find that to be RBSs fault.
RBS acknowledged the March letter promptly, by email. It followed up with the final response 
letter within a reasonable time-frame, on 8 April 2020. But that letter was sent by post, rather 
than email, and Mr F didnt receive it. I dont doubt that it was sent. So I cant fairly conclude 
that RBS is fully responsible for the fact that the letter didnt reach Mr F, as the delivery of 
post is carried out by third parties. 
But I do think its unfortunate that RBS chose to send the letter by this method. It already had 
Mr Fs email address and had used it to acknowledge his complaint. It would have been far 
more efficient and reliable to use email again, particularly as Mr F lives abroad. The letter 
itself acknowledges that the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic meant that it was 
important for RBS to help customers as quickly as possible. But, by sending this letter 
overseas by post, RBS wasnt helping Mr F quickly. Ive asked RBS why email wasnt used 
on this occasion, but it hasnt been able to explain why.
I think its likely that, if the letter had been sent by email, Mr F would have found out on or 
very close to 8 April 2020 what he needed to do to access his funds. So, although its not 
entirely RBS fault that the letter didnt reach Mr F, I think it does bear some responsibility for 
the delay in Mr F finding out about the status of his account and funds.
RBS has already offered compensation of £50 to reflect this. I think thats fair. I realise Mr F 
doesnt think thats enough and Im sorry to disappoint him. But Im not going to ask RBS to 
pay any more than that. Our awards arent intended to punish a business  rather, they aim 
to reflect the impact a mistake has had on a customer and put that right, so far as possible. I 
think RBS did make a mistake here in the way it communicated with Mr F. But that didnt 
affect what had happened to the account. It had been closed as a result of dormancy and 
that had already happened by the time RBS received Mr Fs request to transfer the funds. 
For the reasons above, I dont think it was unreasonable that RBS had closed the account. 
Mr F contacted our investigator recently to say he had provided certified documents to RBS 
so that he could reclaim his funds, but that RBS had rejected the documentation. Mr F was 
very unhappy about this and said that RBS was being obstructive. Our investigator raised 
the issue with RBS and I understand that Mr Fs funds have now been released to him. Its 
unfortunate that the documentation was rejected initially. But, as this issue has now been 
resolved and the funds returned to Mr F without him having to take any further steps, I dont 
think this caused significant detriment to him, so Im not going to ask RBS to do anything 
more about this.
 
Putting things right
In the overall circumstances here, I think compensation of £50 is fair. I know Mr F will find 
my decision disappointing. But I dont think RBS has acted unfairly, so Im not going to ask it 
to do any more. I understand that Mr F had previously asked for any compensation to be 
paid to his relative. If that remains his wish, and if he chooses to accept this decision, he 
should let RBS know where he would like the payment to be sent.
  My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
should pay compensation of £50.00 to Mr F.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman