DRN-1593940
The complaint
Miss H complains about the interest rate on a loan she had with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Miss H took out a loan with Barclays in June 2018 for £13,600. She complains that the 
interest rate was too high and she could have got a better rate elsewhere, with a different 
bank. She says that the rate she received for the loan was different to the rate that was 
advertised on the website. Miss H says she would like Barclays to give her a lower rate on 
her loan.  
Barclays responded to Miss Hs complaint to say it didnt think it had done anything wrong  
and that the rate it gave her was based on a number of factors.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong when it offered Miss H a higher rate than advertised. Miss H didnt agree. So 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have seen, I'm not upholding Miss H's complaint and I'll explain why.
Barclays offered Miss H the loan at a rate of 23.9% APR. But Miss H says the advertised 
rate on the website was less than this. Barclays say the advertised rate at the time was 5.5% 
APR. Miss H is concerned that she didnt get the advertised rate due to fraudsters and 
possible identity theft. Although I dont think this is likely to be the case. I think Barclays had 
considered the information provided by Miss H when it came to its decision to lend to her, 
and so Im satisfied that the rate she was given wasnt as a result of fraud or identity theft. 
Barclays, like other banks, charge for its lending money services  and this is normally 
through the interest rate, also known as APR (annual percentage rate). All lenders price 
credit differently, so will have varying APRs  this will normally depend on that businesses 
lending criteria and the customers individual circumstances. It isnt for this service to decide 
what interest rate a person should be charged. 
It is for the above reason that Barclays dont have to charge every customer the advertised 
rate. Some customers will pose more of a lending risk than others, and this is why they might 
end up being offered a higher rate to what was advertised. 
I do, however, need to be satisfied that Barclays considered everything it needed to when 
deciding on Miss Hs rate. Barclays has provided me with information about its lending 
decision and how it assesses what rate to give its customers. Im satisfied that Barclays has 
fairly considered the interest rate for Miss Hs loan.  Barclays needed to let Miss H know what rate it was offering her before she agreed to take 
the loan. I can see from the loan agreement sent to Miss H that it says the interest rate it 
was offering her was 23.9% APR. Miss H didnt have to accept this if she didnt want to  
and she could have shopped around for a better rate with a different lender. The loan 
agreement also says Miss H had 14 days to cancel the loan and repay the loan amount if 
she changed her mind. 
Based on everything Ive said, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly when it gave Miss H a 
rate of 23.9% APR. And so Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more for Miss H.
Miss H has asked that Barclays change the rate on this loan, but the debt for this loan is no 
longer with Barclays and has been sold to a third-party debt collection agency. Miss H 
should contact Barclays for more information about this if shes unsure on who she now 
needs to speak to about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss H's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman