DRN-3499947
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled the 
application of an additional premium on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G has a car insurance policy with Admiral. He contacted Admiral in October 2021 to buy 
a policy. When he called Admiral, Mr G asked whether he was able to buy the policy as he 
held a provisional UK driving licence. 
Admiral told him that he was, and that he must have someone appropriately licenced to 
supervise him when he was driving. 
In December 2021 Mr G obtained a full UK driving licence and rang Admiral to update his 
policy. Admiral told Mr G that this change to his policy would result in an additional charge of 
£218.69.
Mr G wasnt happy about this additional charge so he complained to Admiral. He asks that 
Admiral refund the additional premium it charged him.
Admiral said it had charged Mr G correctly so it didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr G 
could cancel his policy without any fees if he just paid for the time hed been on cover.
As Mr G remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. She said Mr G had been told in the initial call hed made to 
Admiral that he needed to let it know when he received his full licence, and that the premium 
might change.
Mr G didnt agree with the view and asked that it was reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reason an insurer charges a different premium between a provisional licence holder and 
a full licence holder with very little experience is typically because of the supervision 
element. As mentioned above, a provisional licence holder must be appropriately supervised 
at all times when driving, which typically means they present a lower risk to the insurer. 
When the full licence is obtained, inexperienced drivers can then drive unaccompanied and 
present a different risk profile.
Admiral, in common with other insurers, will have developed an understanding of the 
different risks presented to it by drivers who have just obtained a full licence and will charge 
a premium accordingly. I can see from its evidence that Admiral charge a higher premium as 
it deems the risk to be greater. In my experience, this is the same approach taken across the 
motor insurance marketplace.
Ive listened to the call Mr G made to Admiral when he bought the policy. I think its clear 
from that call that Mr G says he has a provisional licence, the call handler explains what that 
means in terms of his day-to-day driving, and then later goes on to say what Mr G needs to 
do when he receives his full licence. 
Its clear to me from the call that Mr G is aware there will likely be an increase in the 
premium he is charged.
Mr G has since told this service that he had previously held a driving licence in a different 
country and held an international driving permit. 
Although Mr G didnt mention this in his call to Admiral, and hasnt included it in his approach 
to this service, I have asked Admiral how Mr Gs policy would have been affected if hed 
disclosed his international driving permit. Admiral have provided evidence that Mr Gs initial 
premium would have been significantly higher, so even with the increase of £218.69 
mentioned above, Mr G was still paying less than he would have done if hed used his 
international driving permit to ask Admiral to insure him.
I think Admirals approach has been fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman