DRN-2264415
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
his home insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
There was an escape of water at Mr Fs home in June 2019 so he made a claim under his 
home insurance policy to LV. LV accepted the claim and appointed contractors to strip out 
the property and carry out repairs. Six weeks passed before the contractors started work and 
when they did they caused additional damage to Mr Fs home in the process. 
The reinstatement works started after the strip out but there were issues with the 
workmanship and delays. Mr F contacted LV to complain but didnt think he was being 
listened to. There were attempts by LV to get the contractors to address the issues Mr F had 
raised but ultimately the relationship between Mr F and the contractors broke down and the 
contractors came off the job at the end of August 2019. Mr F complained to LV. 
In an attempt to move matters forward, it was agreed between LV and Mr F that a loss 
adjuster would be appointed to assess what had gone on and propose a way forward. The 
loss adjuster visited Mr Fs property at the start of October 2019 and provided a report to LV. 
Mr F told the loss adjuster he wasnt willing to have the contractor return. He said hed 
calculated that it would take £15,476.84 to carry out the outstanding repairs to return his 
home to it pre-loss state. 
Having considered what the loss adjuster had reported, and taken Mr Fs own costings into 
account of what works were needed to restore the house to its pre-loss condition, LV agreed 
with Mr F that it would cash settle his claim for the full amount he was asking  in the end 
this came to £18,561 and was paid to him by LV in mid-November 2019. 
LV then sent Mr F its final response letter to his complaint the next day. It said it was sorry 
for the problems Mr F had had with his home insurance claim and with its contractors. It said 
it was pleased to note Mr Fs claim had now been settled but accepted that itd added to the 
stress and inconvenience of having to make the claim in the first place. LV said that the fact 
Mr F was now having to have some of the repairs re-done meant it was clear the work 
undertaken by its contractors hadnt moved the claim forward over its 5-month lifespan. So, 
LV said it would pay Mr F £100 for each of those months by way of an apology (£500 
overall). 
LV went on to accept its contractors had caused additional damage to Mr Fs home and, 
whilst itd included the cost of having to put that damage right within the cash settlement of 
the claim, it was going to send him a further £600 by way of an apology for failing to provide 
him with the service he had the right to expect. 
LV also accepted that some of Mr Fs phone calls had gone unreturned and some of its call 
handling was poor  it said it was paying Mr F a further £100 for this. It noted that Mr F had 
raised concerns about the health and safety practice of its contractors when in his home and 
assured him the necessary feedback had been given. Finally, for the problems hed had with 
his GDPR request, it said it was paying him £25. 
In total, LV paid Mr F compensation of £1,225 for the shortcomings in its claim handling.
Mr F wasnt happy with LVs response to his complaint so he complained to this service at 
the start of May 2020. In addition to the complaints hed raised with, and which had been 
looked at by, LV Mr F also said hed seen his renewal premium increase by 76% and that 
when hed asked LV why, itd told him that itd paid out over £50,000 for his claim. Mr F said 
this was fraudulent. He said hed been caused stress as a result of the claim delays and all 
the chasing hed had to do along with having to live in a mess. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He 
said he agreed that Mr F had been caused un-necessary trouble and upset by the way LV 
had handled the claim and the delays involved but explained that LV had accepted this and 
paid him compensation of £1,225 which he considered was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. In respect of the increased price of his premium at renewal, our investigator 
explained that the claim wouldve been one of the factors taken into account by LV when 
calculating his renewal price and that, if hed been unhappy with the renewal offer, then Mr F 
couldve sought cover from another provider. 
Mr F disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the period after LVs final response 
letter paying him £1,225 hadnt been taken into account. He said after that hed had to 
arrange his own contractors to do the repairs for which hed received no compensation. He 
said LV hadnt fulfilled its part of the contract and hed spent ages working out what it would 
cost to reinstate his home, which he shouldnt have had to do. 
Our investigator looked at what Mr F had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He 
said hed looked at what LV had done to resolve Mr Fs complaint and he thought itd done 
enough. 
Mr F asked for his complaint to be referred for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment it will cause Mr F, I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
the claim
In line with the policy terms and conditions, LV elected to carry out repairs to Mr Fs property. 
After he complained, LV admitted that its contractors had failed Mr F. When Mr F said he 
didnt want the contractors to return to his home, LV offered to cash settle the claim in full. 
This included all outstanding works, along with the cost of repairing any additional damage 
caused by the contractors at the rates proposed by Mr F. I can see that LV didnt try to settle 
the claim based on the rates its own contractors would charge it to do the works. As it 
accepted the costings put forward by Mr F, in full, and as Mr F has indicated he was happy 
with the amount offered I cant reasonably ask LV to do any more in respect of the claim 
itself. 
compensationIve given a relatively brief account above of what happened with this claim. Despite doing 
so, Id like to reassure the parties that Ive taken everything theyve provided into account  
just because I havent mentioned something, doesnt mean I havent considered it.
All insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain level of inconvenience and 
sometimes distress; thats to be expected. But where an insurer, through its words or deeds 
makes an already difficult situation worse, this service can look at what has happened and 
require the payment of compensation if we think it is warranted. 
I can see that Mr Fs claim was badly handled by LV  that it was is not even disputed by LV 
itself. But it has taken steps to put things right by admitting its shortcomings in full, 
apologising and paying Mr F compensation. I have to decide  taking all the circumstances 
of the complaint into account  if LV has done enough and has dealt with Mr Fs complaint in 
a fair and reasonable way; I have to say I think it has. I can see, and LV has accepted, that 
Mr F was caused avoidable additional distress and inconvenience by the workmanship of its 
contractors, the delays, the additional damage, the time he had to devote to the claim and its 
poor call handling. 
But LV has apologised and has paid Mr F, a significant amount of compensation. In thinking 
about the compensation it paid, I have to have regard to this services approach to such 
awards. Having done so, I think that the amount paid by LV to Mr F is in line with awards this 
service has made in complaints with similar circumstances. Indeed, if Mr Fs complaint had 
passed across my desk without an award of compensation having been made already by 
LV, Im unlikely  taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account  to have 
awarded any more than £1,225. 
I appreciate Mr F feels that this amount isnt a fair reflection of all the trouble and upset hes 
been put to but I think it does fairly reflect the trouble and upset he was put to up to the date 
of LVs final response letter on 16 November 2019. I cant consider any trouble and upset 
that Mr F experienced after this point because by then LV had already discharged its liability 
to him by cash settling his claim in full and because, if Mr F was unhappy about anything that 
happened after that date, hed need to raise it with LV first so that it has the opportunity to 
investigate it. 
increased premium
When Mr F received his renewal invitation from LV in 2020 he complained at the significant 
increase in premium he was faced with. I understand that LV told him that itd paid out over 
£50,000 for his claim which Mr F says must be a fraudulent figure as he only received 
£18,000. 
Whilst I dont know how the figure of £50,000 was arrived at by LV, it is worth noting that the 
£18,000 settlement it paid Mr F wouldnt have been the only cost associated with his claim. 
Added to this, for example, would be the contractors costs and the loss adjusters costs. 
When calculating Mr Fs renewal price, LV will have needed to take account of a number of 
things. Those will have included the risk its taken on for Mr F and all of its other customers. 
And the total number and value of claims it thinks theyre likely to make in that year. Itll also 
factor in its administration costs and profit requirements. Each year, LVs entitled to reassess 
the factors it uses when setting the price of its policies (a policyholders claims history being 
one such factor). So, prices can go up or down, depending on what LV thinks the risks are 
that year for all of its customers.
Its important to understand that this service doesnt normally assess whether a price is too 
high to cover a particular risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based on its appetite for risk 
and its business requirements more generally. So, we wont normally say whether a product represents good value for money. We generally accept that insurers can charge what they 
like for insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should 
apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop 
around and change insurer if they wish. Ive seen no evidence that thats not the case here. 
The insurance market is a highly competitive one and renewing a property insurance policy 
will involve a bit of time and effort to get the best terms. People who take the time to shop 
around often end up paying less. I dont think LV should have to compensate Mr F for this in 
the circumstances of his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman