DRN-4004007
Complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2018, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it in part through a 1-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system 
was subsequently installed.
In 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. 
The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system that had 
turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would generate free electricity and he would not receive an electricity bill. 
The system would be self-funding
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the cost of the system in 4 years. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr S or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC and Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
Mr S reiterated he was told his electricity would be free, and that he would save vast 
amounts of money  he believed what he was told by the sales agent. 
Mr S adds that P still has adverts that inflate the benefits produced by the system. 
The CMC says that Mr S was not taken through the sales document relied on by our 
investigator. If he had been taken through the quote, he wouldnt have purchased the 
system as it was not an attractive investment given the timescales involved before 
the system would break even. 
The CMC added that we had not taken into consideration the verbal representations 
made by Ps agent that induced Mr S into the purchase. 
The CMC referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to Mr S 
and this was upheld in the consumers favour  but it was for a different consumer 
against a different provider. 
The CMC has also pointed out that many consumers have raised complaints over the 
selling of solar panels, and many have been previously upheld in favour of 
consumers. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that while Ive considered carefully the comments made by Mr H and the CMC 
regarding the outcomes of other cases and general adverts, each case brought to our 
service is assessed on the individual merits of that case.
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest (if any is) to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mr S was told that the cost of the system was £8,714.00. The quote sets 
this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £8,714.00. The monthly payment was £517.83. The total amount of 
credit is £6,214.00 after deducting a deposit of £2,500. It seems Mr S took an interest free 
loan to fund the purchase of the system. 
The CMC has pointed out that it feels Shawbrook didnt carry out a credit assessment. 
Shawbrook says it carried out an appropriate credit assessment before granting the loan. 
Mr S has also said he has not had any affordability issues in relation to the loan. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr S was told the total cost of the system and he was told that 
there would be a monthly loan repayment due. And as there were no affordability concerns, 
Im satisfied that the loan was affordable. 
 
Self-funding 
Mr S has said that he was told the cost of the system would be covered, or self-funded by 
the FIT payments and savings in energy bills in four years. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The What you will earn and save? page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments and savings from the system. This is split 
out into the expected income and savings per year over the expected lifetime of the system. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and additional savings. And by year 4 his total income is only 
£3,767,45 which is significantly less than the amount Mr S paid for the system. This quote 
gives a detailed breakdown of how Mr Ss system was expected to perform and Im not sure 
how the sales agent could have explained where the remaining benefits would come from in 
order for him to have been able to recover his initial outlay  bearing in mind the shortfall at 
year 4 is almost £5,000. 
Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding within 4 years. That said, I do accept that Mr S was likely told by P that the 
system would be self-funding over a certain duration of time. 
This table also shows that by year 9 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 9, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, 
and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Mr Ss complaint was that the system had been misrepresented to him on the basis that it 
would be self-funding due to the financial returns received from the system. Shawbrook only 
had to investigate and respond to that claim and it didnt have to go further than that and 
investigate whether the system was generating as much energy as P had estimated. If Mr S 
would like Shawbrook to look into this, he should raise this with Shawbrook directly  but I 
have not looked at it as part of this case. 
I have considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the financial 
returns Mr S was likely to receive from the system, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why he hasnt been 
receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve expected to receive 
from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
I would add that while the sales quote does estimate how much Mr S may save on his utility 
bills, Ive seen nothing in the documents that indicate P told Mr S that he would not get an 
electricity bill at all. Bearing in mind how the solar panel systems usually work (during the 
day), I dont think its likely P told Mr S that he would not have an electricity bill at all. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint. 
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly for not accepting 
the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman