DRN-3871311
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service he has received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
having made a claim under his annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary our investigator found that Great Lakes hadnt progressed the claim in a 
timely manner. Whilst she couldnt recommend that Great Lakes pay the claim whilst its 
investigation was ongoing, she did feel compensation in the sum of £250 was merited for 
poor service. As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. I should say if 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the 
right outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the 
key issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
My reasons are as follows:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Great Lakes is entitled to assess and fully investigate the claim that Mr M has made. 
I dont find that that the requests it has made in this regard to be unreasonable. 
There is no basis on which I could ask Great Lakes to pay Mr Ms claim without 
completing its investigation. I note that it paid the cash part of his claim. For 
completeness I would say that by doing so it doesnt follow that the whole claim is 
payable.
This service doesnt regulate financial businesses. We are not able to tell them how 
to operate or how to investigate claims. However I have looked carefully at the 
service provided to date. Mr M first submitted his claim on 23 June 2022. On 23 July 
Great lakes explained that there would be a six week delay due to covid and the 
number of claims it was experiencing. I think that was reasonable. But during August 
and September Mr M called many times complaining about timescales often holding 
on to the phone line for long periods to speak to an adviser. On occasion he was 
promised a call back that didnt happen. Great Lakes responded on 22 August 
apologising for missing his complaint of 6 August. On 26 September it did recognise 
that it had failed to meet its usual service standards and apologised again. Like our 
investigator, I find the claims process could have been expedited. 
Its clear that that Mr M has been going through a difficult and distressing time and 
hes provided us with very personal information about his health. I appreciate that 
Great Lakes hasnt had sight of this and isnt able to validate his state of health. It is 
up to Mr M whether he wishes to share that information with Great Lakes or as to 
what disclosures he makes. If he chooses to provide medical information Great 
Lakes can make any necessary adjustments to its claims process. However I am 
satisfied that this matter has added significantly to the stress Mr M was experiencing. 
As I noted above Great Lakes is entitled to investigate his claim thoroughly, but that 
matter has now been ongoing for some months, got off to a slow start and it is still 
not in a position to give an answer to Mr M. In these circumstances I find that 
compensation is due. I recognise that Mr M has been abroad and has made calls to 
the UK which have been expensive. I find that compensation is merited and £250 is 
fair, taking the calls, delays and overall service into consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Mr P £250 for the poor 
service he has experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman