DRN-3110765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to tell them that, due to an 
error on their mortgage offer, an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) would not be charged to 
exit their five-year fixed rate product after the first year.
Mr and Mrs R also complain that they wish to align the two parts of their mortgage but will 
need to pay an ERC on the second part of their mortgage to do this. 
What happened
In 2015, Mr and Mrs R took out a five-year fixed interest rate product with Nationwide for 
around £76,500. Later, in 2016, they decided to move. They borrowed an additional sum of 
around £61,500 (again on a five-year fixed rate of interest) and ported their existing 
mortgage deal to the new property. They say they understood that the two parts of the 
mortgage would run side by side, but that one fixed rate deal would come to an end a year 
earlier than the other part. 
In 2018, it was discovered that an error had been made on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage offer. 
This was that the mortgage offer only outlined what the ERC would be for one year, rather 
than setting out a projection of what would be charged over the five-year period. 
Mr R says he recalls receiving a letter about this but no longer has a copy. Nationwide has 
no record of sending correspondence about this and has not been able to provide a copy to 
our investigator. But from 2018, I can see that the annual mortgage statement shows that no 
ERC would be charged if Mr and Mrs R exited the interest rate deal on this part of the 
mortgage prior to the agreed end date. 
Mr and Mrs R complain they have lost the opportunity to align the two parts of their mortgage 
and have incurred a financial loss by not being able to exit the second part of their mortgage 
to do this, without the ERC applying. They also say that if they had known an ERC was not 
applicable to the first part of the mortgage, they could have switched to a lower interest rate 
product and bring this in line with the second part of the mortgage earlier. 
They complained to Nationwide. It replied to say that it identified that there was an issue with 
Mr and Mrs Rs offer for the first part of their mortgage and that, as a result, no ERC applied 
from after the first year. It said that it would not have contacted Mr and Mrs R about this but 
that no ERC would have applied if they needed to exit the fixed rate product after the first 
year. 
Mr R says that he was told, around 2018, that the ERC could be waived on the second part 
of the mortgage. 
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC payable
Ive considered the mortgage offer from 2016 and can see that, on the first part of the 
mortgage the applicable ERC is not outlined in the Cash Examples section after the first 
year. But it is outlined for the second part of the mortgage and reflects cash examples of 
what the ERC could be in year three and year five. 
Nationwide has explained that this error was identified in 2018 and that, as a result, any 
ERC would not be payable on the first part of the mortgage as the offer didnt illustrate this 
correctly. 
It said that no correspondence was issued around this time to let affected borrowers know. 
Mr and Mrs R complain that they should have been told about this error and that, had they 
been, they could have changed their mortgage to a cheaper rate. Mr R says that at the time, 
he could have saved around 1% on the interest rate that he was paying and that he has lost 
out financially as a result. 
I can appreciate the argument presented and Ive thought carefully about this. Having done 
so, I dont think that Mr and Mrs R have been treated unfairly. I say this as when they took 
out their initial five-year fixed rate, they agreed to the interest rate and terms outlined. 
Whilst there was an error presented in how the ERC would be applied, I dont consider that 
Nationwide were compelled to contact them to let them know about this. Nationwide has 
explained that a decision was made that if the fixed rate needed to be exited early then the 
ERC would not apply after the first year. A fixed interest deal may need to be brought to an 
end early for a number of reasons such as the sale of the property.
But in this case, Mr and Mrs R didnt need to exit the five-year deal early. They were able to 
port their rate to a new property and take out additional borrowing. Whilst it may be true to 
say that better rates were available around that time, I dont consider that Nationwide were 
required to tell Mr and Mrs R that they could exit the deal early without incurring an ERC in 
order to change rates.
Mr and Mrs R signed up to the five-year deal and, for the reasons Ive given, I dont consider 
that they have suffered a direct financial loss as a result of the error. 
Aligning the two sub accounts of the mortgage
Mr and Mrs R say that they received communication from Nationwide in 2018 to let them 
know about the error. In response to this, they say that they called Nationwide and were told 
that the ERC would be waived on the second part of the mortgage, meaning that the two sub 
accounts could be aligned in 2020 when the deal on the first part expired. 
Unfortunately, Nationwide has not been able to provide a record or recording of a call 
reflecting this. But I dont think this is conclusive evidence that this conversation didnt 
happen. Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Rs recollections of the conversation at the 
time. 
But Im mindful that human memory is fallible, and theres no documentary evidence to 
support their recollection of this conversation. Ive looked through all the notes of contact 
between Mr and Mrs R and Nationwide and can see there has been contact between them 
over the last few years. But theres no mention in the notes about this discussion. While I dont doubt the honesty of their recollection, it may be genuinely held but inaccurate.
I consider its likely that, as the mistake was made on the offer letter for the original part of 
the mortgage, it follows that the error would be corrected on this part  rather than the 
second part that was taken out in which there was no error. 
Ive listened to the calls that are available from 2020. During a call in March 2020, Mr R asks 
what ERCs would be applicable to the two parts of the mortgage. Nationwide confirms this 
and I note that theres no mention of a previous agreement that the ERC could be removed 
from the second part of the mortgage. I consider that if this had been agreed this would have 
been mentioned at this point 
Later in 2020, Mr R called to discuss his options about aligning the two parts of the mortgage 
and mentions that he is looking at deals with Nationwide and other providers to work out 
what would be most cost effective in the long run.
Ive listened to a call in July 2020 and can hear that he is quoted a figure of around £780 for 
the ERC on the second part of the mortgage. Mr R does mention that there was an issue 
raised previously and that it was agreed that the ERC would be waived on part of the 
mortgage but having listened to the conversation, I think this was only ever agreed on the 
first part of the mortgage. 
Having thought about everything and considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr 
and Mrs R have suffered a financial loss or have been treated unfairly.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Rs frustrations at how things turned out. But having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman