DRN-4528929
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a personal loan Zopa Bank Limited (trading as Zopa) has 
accepted responsibility for arranging for him. Mr H says the loan was unaffordable and was 
therefore irresponsibly provided to him.
Zopa Bank Limited has accepted responsibility for the former Zopa Limiteds Peer to Peer 
activities. In any event, I will refer to the respondent in this case as Zopa.
Background
Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr H being provided 
with a loan for £10,000.00 loan in March 2018. This loan had an APR of 17.9% and a term of 
12 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £10,922.99, including interest, 
fees and charges of £929.99 (comprising of a borrowing fee of £220 and interest of £709.99) 
was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £910.25. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint and that thought that Zopa didnt do 
anything wrong when arranging Mr Hs loan. So he didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint 
be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 7 December 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 7 December 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Hs complaint. 
Zopa needed to make sure it didnt bring about Mr Hs loan irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that Zopa needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay any credit it arranged. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders (or 
equivalent such as here) checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for 
checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information is gathered and what is done 
to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect an electronic platform to be able to show that it didnt continue to bring about loans 
for a customer irresponsibly.
I considered what Zopa had done and its actions in light of this.
Zopa said that it arranged this loan as it established Mr H had £713.06 in disposable income. 
I presumed that this was after the loan payment was included given £713.06 wouldnt be 
enough to repay £910.25 and that would therefore make the loan unaffordable. 
In any event, irrespective of the position, I found Zopas calculations to be questionable and 
that this meant Mr Hs application merited closer scrutiny. I thought that this was the case for 
multiple reasons. 
The first thing I believed to be noteworthy was that the payments for the loan were high. And 
they would be taking up close to half of Mr Hs declared income. I thought that this in itself 
ought to have been a cause for concern and a prompt to do more to verify a prospective 
borrowers expenditure. 
Additionally on Zopas calculation, Mr H only had other expenditure of some £300 each 
month. However, Zopas checks indicated that Mr H was pretty indebted. Its checks 
suggested that he had a debt-to-income ratio of some 30-40% (I used this approximation as 
there was more than one figure in the information provided). I couldnt see how Mr H only 
had around £300 in expenditure in these circumstances.
In my view, this was called into question even more by the fact that Zopas checks indicated 
that Mr H was a homeowner with a mortgage too. And would therefore have additional 
expenditure in relation to running a home. So I simply could not reasonably see a scenario 
where Mr H would be left with £713.06 in disposable income after this £910.25 monthly 
repayment was made, he had a mortgage and other debts and he only earned £1,970.00 or 
so a month.
In my view, the information Zopa had and obtained was inconsistent, at face value didnt 
seem to add up and warranted further scrutiny. And bearing this in mind, I was satisfied that 
Zopa needed to find out more about Mr Hs actual income and expenditure before 
concluding that the payments to this loan were affordable for him.
Mr H had provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
his loan. I accepted that different checks might have shown different things. And just 
because something showed up in the information Mr H had provided, it did not mean that it 
would have shown up in any checks Zopa might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I thought it perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on what this information said as an indication of what Mr Hs financial circumstances were 
more likely than not to have been at the time. 
It was also important to note that Zopa was required to establish whether Mr H could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an indication that a consumer could 
sustainably make the repayments. 
But it did not automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower would not be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. I carefully considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided showed the reason for Mr Hs indebtedness and apparent inability 
to manage his money. Given what I saw, it was clear and apparent to me that Mr H was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this was the case, I thought that Mr Hs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown Zopa that it shouldnt have arranged this loan for Mr H. 
As Zopa operated the electronic system in relation to lending that saw Mr H provided with 
this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that Zopa failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. And I explained that it was my intention to issue a final decision 
upholding this complaint. 
I thought that Mr H ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. So it was my intention to find that Mr H lost out because of what Zopa 
did wrong and issue a final decision which directed Zopa to put things right for Mr H.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to say that he was happy with the provisional decision and didnt provide 
anything further for me to consider.
Zopa also responded. In summary it:
Did not offer any comment on whether it disagreed with my findings that it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards Mr H when arranging his loan for him.
Said that the compliant was outstanding far longer than it should have been due to 
an administration error on our part and so it did not agree that it should have to pay 
8% simple interest for this whole period.
It is typically asked to pay 8% simple interest from the date that the customer 
overpaid the amount borrowed and wanted this considered.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
I thank the parties for their submissions. I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold   
Mr Hs complaint in my provisional decision of 7 December 2023. Zopa doesnt appear to have offered any comment on whether it did anything wrong when 
arranging this loan for Mr H and instead has focused on what I think it needs to do to put 
things right for Mr H. And as Mr H has accepted my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
there is no reason for me to alter the conclusion I reached, in my provisional decision, that 
Zopa didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr H when arranging his loan for him. 
Ive therefore focused my further findings on the arguments Zopa has raised regarding the 
award of 8% simple interest I set out in my provisional decision. 
In the first instance, I wish to be clear in saying that my direction on interest, fees and 
charges refers to the extra Mr H paid over and above the capital amount that he was lent  
(Mr Hs effective overpayments), rather than on the initial amortisation schedule of Mr Hs 
loan. So Im satisfied that Mr H is entitled to a refund of the extra he paid over and above the 
£10.000.00 he was originally lent. 
And as my 8% a year simple interest award is for Mr H not having the use of funds he would 
have the use of but for Zopas actions, Im satisfied that he was only out of pocket once the 
original £10,000.00 was paid  its is clear that he would not have had use of the original 
£10,000.00 had Zopa not arranged his loan for him.
  
This means that Zopas argument that it should only pay Mr H simple interest from the point 
where he paid more than the initial £10,000.00 as this is when he was out of pocket, is 
correct. And Im satisfied that what is it saying it needs to do is compliant with the direction 
proposed in my provisional decision, confirmed in this final decision and our usual approach 
to putting things right in these types of cases.
I now turn to when Mr H should be paid 8% a year simple interest up to. Zopa accepts that 
Mr Hs complaint was referred to us in time. But it is unhappy at our services delays in 
progressing matters. Im sorry to see that Zopa is unhappy with the time taken to resolve   
Mr Hs complaint. However, as Ive explained, my award on 8% a year simple interest is 
meant to reflect the fact that Mr H has lost the use of the funds he will now be refunded and 
at this stage no one knows what these funds would have been used for. 
Mr H will not be returned his interest, fees and charges (or overpayments) until Zopa settles 
this final decision. So Im satisfied that when the refunded payments were made to the date 
of the refund is the period Mr H will have not had use of the funds for and it follows that this 
is the period Mr H should receive 8% a year simple interest for. This is in line with our typical 
approach to putting things right where a customer has lost the use of funds they would 
otherwise had the use of, had it not been for a respondent firms actions.
I appreciate that Zopa is unhappy with the delays in this case getting to an investigator and 
while it has not directly stated this, it just states that it isnt responsible for the time taken, I 
presume that it believes I should make a different award as a result. Ive carefully considered 
Zopas arguments on this point.
However, it is my understanding that the complaint was quickly progressed through to an 
ombudsman after the initial investigation. And its possible that this case, in any event, may 
only have ever reached an ombudsman at the point it did. Furthermore, it was always open 
to Zopa to settle the matter with Mr H prior to the case reaching an ombudsman  after all it 
now accepts that it should not have arranged this loan for Mr H in the first place.    So while Ive considered the further comments that Zopa has made in response to my 
provisional decision of 7 December 2023, I dont think that this means I should depart from 
our usual approach on putting things right. And I remain satisfied that Zopa should pay 8% 
simple interest for the date his interest, fees and charges (or overpayments) were made to 
the date that Zopa settles the complaint in line with the direction in this final decision.
Overall and having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to alter the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. Im therefore still upholding Mr Hs complaint. And I 
remain satisfied that Zopa needs to put things right for Mr H. 
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Zopa to put things right for Mr H by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including the borrowing fee) (in effect the 
overpayments on the capital advance Zopa arranged) Mr H paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on Mr Hs refunded overpayments from the 
date they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it may have recorded about this loan from Mr Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 7 December 2023, 
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
directed it to do so above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman