DRN-2895825
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) converted a payment from his 
overseas account to pounds which caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr K submitted an international transfer request from his Co-op account to his overseas 
account on 11 December 2020. He was concerned about the performance of the pound, and 
so transferred the funds in euros. Co-op didnt action his request until 21 December 2020.
 
In early January 2021 Mr K contacted Co-op to say hed not received the funds in his 
overseas account. Co-op told Mr K they wouldnt usually complete a trace on the funds until 
10 business days had passed. After that time had passed Mr K let Co-op know that he still 
hadnt received the funds in his overseas account, but he had received an unexplained 
payment into his Co-op account. 
Co-op told Mr K that they received a credit to his Co-op account on 7 January 2021 in euros, 
which was converted to pounds at the current exchange rate. 
Mr K complained to Co-op that they didnt contact him about the returned funds and 
converted this to pounds without his consent, which caused a loss of around £9,000. 
Co-op sent Mr K their final response in February 2021. They apologised for not actioning the 
transfer in early December 2020 and paid Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. They told Mr K that the funds were returned as a payment by his 
overseas bank rather than a query, so they had no opportunity to hold these and discuss 
them with Mr K. They apologised that Mr K had lost money but didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. 
Unhappy with this, Mr K bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr K. He thought that Co-op had made the transfer using the details provided by 
Mr K, so they werent responsible for the funds being sent back. He thought theyd followed 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account in converting the returned funds to pounds, and 
so didnt think they needed to refund the money that Mr K had lost. 
Mr K doesnt agree. He says he tried to trace the funds days before they were returned, so 
Co-op shouldve known it wasnt a new payment when the funds were received on 7 
January, and so they shouldnt have converted it to pounds. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Co-op shouldve acted on Mr Ks transfer request sooner. Ive seen 
evidence that they reviewed the exchange rates Mr K wouldve received if the transfer 
request had been completed earlier, and Im satisfied that he didnt lose out financially as a 
result of the delay. 
Mr K had to make a number of phone calls to chase his transfer request, and complete 
additional security procedures as a result of this delay. Co-op have paid Mr K £100 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay, and all things 
considered, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr K remains dissatisfied that Co-op converted the money that was returned by the 
overseas bank into pounds. He says they shouldve known to get in touch with him about 
this, because hed contacted them the day before to check where the funds were. 
When Mr K submitted the transfer request, the name he provided to Co-op was not the full 
name that his overseas account was in. Its this difference in account name that caused the 
overseas bank to return the funds. Ive seen the transfer request that Mr K submitted, and 
the transaction that Co-op completed. Im satisfied, based on the evidence, that Co-op made 
the transfer in line with Mr Ks instructions. So, I find they werent responsible for the 
overseas bank returning the funds. 
Co-op say that when the overseas bank returned the funds, they didnt query the incorrect 
account name or tell Co-op that the funds were being returned. So, when the funds came in 
it appeared to be a new payment and the conversion to pounds was done automatically in 
order to deposit the amount into Mr Ks account. 
Co-op have said that if the overseas bank had contacted them first, theyd have been able to 
hold the funds whilst they spoke to Mr K, and might have been able to correct the name and 
resubmit the transfer. 
Ive seen the system notes detailing the payment to Mr Ks account, and Im satisfied that 
theres nothing that wouldve flagged this as a returned payment. So, Im satisfied that Co-op 
followed their own procedures in converting the amount to pounds in order to deposit it to Mr 
Ks account. I dont think its unreasonable that this process is automated, and the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks account confirm that if money is received in a currency other than 
sterling, itll be converted to sterling at the standard rate of exchange. So, I find that Co-op 
acted reasonably in carrying out this conversion and depositing the funds in Mr Ks account. 
Mr K says that he contacted Co-op the day before the payment was received from his 
overseas account, so they shouldve known that it was a returned payment, and they 
shouldve contacted him about it. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr K did discuss the transfer, and that hed expected it to be in his 
overseas account, with Co-op a day before the returned payment was received. This 
conversation took place via online banking, and I cant see that it was transferred to the main 
notes for Mr Ks account. 
So, when the payment was received, the team that deals with this type of transaction wasnt 
aware of the discussion that Mr K had previously had. 
Ive thought about whether that discussion shouldve been recorded on Mr Ks main file. I 
think the query he made was a standard one, and that the response that Co-op provided 
was reasonable in the circumstances. The process of transferring funds overseas can take 
time, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Co-op to ask Mr K to wait a few more days before they completed the trace, as it was possible the funds would arrive in his overseas 
account in that time. 
Im not persuaded that Co-op ought to have recorded this interaction on Mr Ks main file. So, 
Im not persuaded that the team dealing with the incoming payment ought reasonably to 
have known to hold this and contact Mr K. 
All things considered, I think that Co-op processed the transfer in line with Mr Ks 
instructions. They werent responsible for the funds being returned, or for the way in which 
the overseas bank returned them. I dont think Co-op would have been aware of any issue 
with the payment received on 7 January, and so I dont think they did anything wrong in 
converting these funds into pounds and depositing them to Mr Ks account. 
I appreciate that losing a significant sum of money, particularly when this is the outcome he 
was trying to prevent, is a stressful situation for Mr K.  But I find that Co-op acted 
reasonably, and dont need to take any further action in respect of Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plcs existing 
payment of £100 to Mr K is a fair way to resolve the complaint and I dont require it to take 
any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman