DRN-2495548
The complaint
Mr R complains that the loans provided to him by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr R was provided with six loans by Lending Stream between July 2011 and May 2012.
Loan Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 29-07-2011 22-05-2012 315
2 28-12-2011 215
3 13-03-2012 03-04-2012 185
4 07-04-2012 11-04-2012 215
5 11-04-2012 165
6 24-05-2012 200
Mr R says that he was borrowing increasing amounts and couldnt afford to pay his priority 
bills. He says he had to borrow more to make his repayments.
Lending Stream says that adequate and proportionate affordability assessments were 
carried out before the loans were provided and that based on these checks the loans were 
affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had seen enough evidence to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. However, he thought loans 4 to 6 shouldnt have been lent. He said that 
by loan 4, Mr R had three other loans outstanding with Lending Stream and that this should 
have alerted Lending Stream to the fact that Mr R might be having problems managing his 
money and that is was unlikely that this and subsequent loans would be sustainably 
affordable. He also thought that by loan 6, Mr Rs pattern of borrowing suggested he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.
Lending Stream agreed to refund the interest and charges on loans 4 to 6. And to remove 
the entries in Mr Rs credit file regarding these loans. It noted that Mr R had an outstanding 
balance on his account and said the refund would be offset against this leaving an amount 
still payable by Mr R. 
Our adjudicator confirmed Lending Streams offer to Mr R, but Mr R didnt accept this. 
Therefore, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The relevant guidance at the time of Mr Rs loans was provided by the Office of Fair trading 
(OFT). This set out the need to make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can 
afford to meet repayments in a sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able 
to the make the repayments without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement 
and without having to realise security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue 
difficulty means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R took out the first loan in July 2011. This was for £315 repayable over six months. At the 
time of the loan Mr R was recorded as being in full time employment with a monthly income 
of £1,300. As this was Mr Rs first loan and considering the repayment amounts compared to 
Mr Rs monthly income, I find that the checks carried out were proportionate. These checks 
suggested the loan was affordable and so I find it reasonable this loan was provided.
The second loan was for £215 and taken out while the first loan was still outstanding. This 
was still very early in the lending relationship. Having considered the repayments due under 
loans 1 and 2 and comparing these to Mr Rs monthly income I find that the checks carried 
out were proportionate and that these suggested the loan was affordable.
By loan 3, I think that concerns should have been raised about whether Mr Rs borrowing 
was sustainable. This was his third loan and his two previous loans were still outstanding. 
However, based on the information provided I do not find that I have enough to say that this 
loan shouldnt have bene provided.Mr R repaid loan three early but then took out loan 4 for a higher amount a few days later. At 
this time, I think Lending stream should have realised that Mr R was struggling to manage 
his money. I think this should have raised concerns that this loan, and subsequent loans 
werent sustainably affordable. Loan 5 was taken out a few days after loan 4 further 
increasing Mr Rs borrowing.
By loan 6, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr Rs pattern of borrowing suggested he was 
persistently reliant on short term borrowing. He had taken out six loans in around ten months 
and had been taking out new loans before previous loans were repaid. The amounts he was 
borrowing werent decreasing.  
Based on the above I uphold this complaint in relation to loans 4 to 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr R from loan 4, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I have upheld this complaint regarding loan 4 to 6, Lending Stream should take the 
actions set out below. If it has sold the outstanding debts (as I understand is the case for two 
of the upheld loans) it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
Refund Mr R all payments made towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld 
loans without an outstanding balance along with 8% simple interest* on the payments 
calculated from the date of payment to the date the complaint is settled.
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on all outstanding loans. Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file regarding loans 4 and 5 (or 
remove completely as Lending Stream had offered). Loan 6 should be removed 
completely form Mr Rs credit file. All adverse information should be removed but 
Lending Stream isnt required to remove the loans completely from Mr Rs credit file 
until they have been repaid.
The refund amount calculated above can be used to offset any outstanding balance. 
If, as set out by ending Stream in its offer, an outstanding balance remains after the 
refund has been applied then we would expect it to work with Mr R to agree an 
affordable repayment plan.
*HMRC requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. If Mr R asks for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off, this should be provided. If Lending 
Stream intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr R owes, this must be done after 
tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream should take the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman