DRN-3102997
The complaint
Mr D complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his claim for an escape of water 
under his home building insurance. 
What happened
Mr D noticed a stain on his kitchen ceiling below his bathroom. He investigated the source of 
this by removing the side from the base of the shower. Having done so he found the area 
beneath was saturated with water. He contacted Fairmead and it instructed him to obtain a 
report from a plumber. 
The plumber told him the floor was damaged and it was unsafe to use the shower. Mr D 
says the plumber initially thought the damage had been caused by a defective seal around 
the shower tray. Mr D then arranged for repairs to be carried out. He says he did this as he 
was assured by Fairmead this wouldnt now impact on the outcome of his claim.
Mr Ds plumber and joiner were asked to provide reports after the shower was removed. He 
says his joiner and plumber noticed a split in the plug hole and a crack in the shower trap. 
He took photos of the area where water had leaked onto the bathroom floor and sent this to 
Fairmead.
Fairmead sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He commented on three possible causes 
of damage as reported by Mr D, including failed seals, a failed valve and a crack in the 
shower tray around the trap. The report says the claim is likely to be declined as Mr Ds 
plumber had confirmed a crack in the tray was due to flexing. It says the pattern of staining 
shows this as the proximate cause. 
Fairmead subsequently declined the claim. It concluded the sealant around the shower tray 
allowed water to leak through. And the damage to the tray was likely to have resulted from 
flexing, either due to wear and tear, a lack of bracing underneath the tray or damage from 
the sealant leak. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the decline decision and contacted our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He didnt think Fairmeads reason to decline the claim was fair based 
on the report Mr Ds joiner had supplied. Our investigator says this showed the water 
damage was caused by a crack in the shower trap, not as a result of defective sealant. He 
thought the company should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
Fairmead disagreed with our investigator. It says the staining to the kitchen ceiling is toward 
the edges and consistent with sealant failure. And that water leaking through the sealant has 
caused damage to the floor, resulting in sagging. It thinks the trap was likely cracked due to 
flexing resulting from the damaged floor. 
Because the parties couldnt agree it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why I think this is fair. 
When declining Mr Ds claim Fairmead relied on its policy exclusion that says:
7. Escape of water: Your insurer will not pay for: Loss or damage caused by the failure, or 
lack of grout and/or sealant
Mr D says that prior to any invasive investigation his plumber also thought the damage was 
caused by the sealant around the shower tray. However, having removed the shower tray he 
provided a report that says:
A small split / crack on the bottom edge of the trap. This was only apparent when weight 
was applied to the shower tray.
The report provided by Mr Ds joiner says:
Upon inspection of the shower room floor and shower area after the plumber had attended it 
is of our opinion that the trap below the shower tray failed, and over a few months we think 
the timber floor has rotted away. This in turn lead to the tray sinking down into the floor and 
in turn ruining the seal along the bottom of the tray.
And:
My opinion of the trap failing is the result of myself seeing underneath the tray and the 
spread of the water, if it wasnt the trap I would have expected the leak to be detected on the 
wall [sic] in the kitchen far quicker than it did.
In its submission to this service, Fairmead says it has seen this scenario often where failed 
sealant allows water to escape from the shower tray and causes damage to the flooring 
beneath. It says the damaged floor sags when the shower is used and this causes damage 
to the trap, which results in further leaking. 
The company also refers to the pattern of staining on the kitchen ceiling. From the photos 
supplied, this is roughly in a line and toward the rear of the kitchen. Fairmead says this 
supports its view that the leak was coming from the sealant on the wet wall side of the 
shower.  
Because the evidence is contradictory, I need to make my decision on the balance of
probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely based on the evidence available.
From the photos there is extensive damage to the floor in the bathroom. The chipboard 
directly beneath the shower was badly damaged, and Fairmeads surveyor says some work 
will also be required to the flooring joists. In his report he says he expected some 
replacement of the joists would be needed. The extensive damage to the floor indicates the 
problem occurred over some time. 
Mr D contacted Fairmead shortly after he noticed staining on the kitchen ceiling. I agree with 
the company that the pattern of staining appears to follow where the failed sealant was 
positioned in the bathroom above. However, it seems unlikely this will have appeared only 
recently, if the leak had originated with failed sealant. As above the damage appears to have 
occurred over some time. If the sealant failed first, I would expect staining to have occurred 
some months earlier than was seen to happen. The joiners view is that a leak first occurred with the trap. This then caused the tray to sink 
into the floor when the shower was used, in turn ruining the seal along the bottom of the 
tray.
Having considered all this, Im more persuaded that the crack in the trap occurred first and 
caused the floor to become damaged over time. I think the floor then deteriorated to a point 
where the shower tray was able to sink into it when the shower was used. This caused a gap 
in the sealant allowing water to pass through. Staining then appeared on the kitchen ceiling 
when water was able to escape more quickly through this gap.
Mr Ds description of the staining supports this view. He reported a small stain first appearing 
on the kitchen ceiling, which had considerably expanded by the next day.
In summary, in the absence of more persuasive evidence to support Fairmeads position, I 
dont think it treated Mr D fairly in relying on the sealant exclusion to decline his claim, as on 
balance I dont agree with its view that this was shown to be the cause of the damage. It 
follows that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ds claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman