DRN-1362172
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs L says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs L took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr A and Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr A and Mrs Ls complaint for the following reasons.
The mortgage was taken out in 1988, and the PPI wasnt sold until 1995. So, gven theyd 
already had the mortgage for a number of years at that point, I think its likely that Mr A and 
Mrs L were aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI. And theres nothing that 
persuades me that they didnt choose to take it. 
Santander most likely recommended the PPI to Mr A and Mrs L, and it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
Its possible that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr A and Mrs L would still have bought it. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr A and 
Mrs L dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr A and Mrs Ls comments, including what theyve said about not 
understanding whey theyd have taken the PPI in 1995. But these points dont change my 
conclusion. Theres limited information about the sale, and it seems Mr A and Mrs L dont 
remember it. I think thats understandable given how long ago it was. But from the evidence 
available, including what Mr A and Mrs L have said, Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman