DRN-2662660
The complaint
Mr J and Ms C say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Abbey National but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2001 to protect Mr J and Ms Cs 
mortgage monthly repayments. The policy covered them for accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J and Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr J and Ms C mainly said that they felt PPI was mis-sold to them because it was 
never made clear that PPI was optional. They told us that during the mortgage application  
process they were told that if they wanted their application to go through they would have to 
take out PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr J and Ms Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr J and Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr J and Ms C are sure about everything theyve told us. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr J and Ms C to remember exactly what was discussed when they 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. So what Mr J and Ms C say about the way they 
were sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I must make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened taking into 
account all the information thats available, what the parties have told me and also thinking 
about what we know about these types of sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Santander gave Mr J and Ms C a choice about 
taking out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr J and Ms C 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Santander couldnt confirm how it sold this PPI. Our adjudicator thought it might have been 
sold during a phone call. Mr J and Ms C told us they clearly recall the advisor talking to them 
about PPI during a meeting  so that may well be when it was sold to them. In any event, 
Santander says its advisor wouldve discussed PPI with Mr J and Ms C and that its advisor 
recommended PPI to them. So I've kept that in mind when thinking about this complaint. 
And, in these circumstances, whether the PPI sale happened during a face to face meeting 
or over the phone makes no overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely that Mr J and Ms C wouldve had to apply 
separately for the cover if they wanted to have it. They wouldve had a choice of cover 
options: accident, sickness and unemployment or accident and sickness only or 
unemployment only. And they also needed to choose whether to take out the policy just for 
one of them or to share the policy benefits.  
I havent seen how Mr J and Ms C applied for PPI. But it looks like they must have filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage. I say this because 
Santander sent them a letter in August 2001 which confirmed the cover theyd taken out and 
enclosed their Paymentcare policy (this is what Santander called its PPI). 
And I think there mustve been some discussion about the cover because it looks like when 
theyd selected the level of cover they wanted Mr J and Ms C opted to take out accident and 
sickness cover only. 
So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr J and Ms C that it was up to them to say 
if they wanted to take out PPI and that it was added to the account when they chose the 
cover they wanted to have. 
As Santander says it recommended the PPI it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mr J and Ms C and give them important policy information they 
needed to know in a clear way.
Looking at the likely policy terms that applied, Mr J and Ms C were eligible for the policy. 
Mr J and Ms C were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage repayments. So, 
I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names and the way the 
benefit was split between them seems reasonable. It looks like they each had 50% of the 
policy benefit and that this reflected their wishes at the time. Later on, after changes were 
made to their mortgage account, the policy benefits were in Mr Js name only.
The PPI couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if either or both Mr J and/or Ms C 
was unable to work as a result of accident or sickness. This was significantly longer than 
they told us they couldve relied on getting sick pay through work. And they couldve made 
repeated claims. So the policy wouldve given Mr J and Ms C long term cover. Their 
mortgage was a major financial commitment and Mr J and Ms Cs home wouldve been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they mightve felt it 
was useful having PPI to protect their mortgage. 
Mr J and Ms C mentioned having around £6,000 - £7,000 in savings combined with a share 
savings scheme through work. But I dont know if they wouldve always had savings to rely 
on if one or both of them wasnt able to work. And it looks like they preferred not to spend 
savings, or they had other plans for that money, if they took out this mortgage rather than 
invest all their savings to reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr J and Ms C could 
depend on being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on other things or to 
provide financial security for the future.  
After thinking carefully about everything theyve told me about their circumstances, I think 
having accident and sickness cover couldve been helpful for Mr J and Ms C at the time, 
even if theyve forgotten now why they decided to have it. 
Its possible some of the information Mr J and Ms C were given about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if they applied to Mr J and Ms C. So, I dont think having more information about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr J and Ms C at the time they bought the 
policy. But it looks like theyd signed an instruction form to their bank to cover the monthly 
cost. So it seems Mr J and Ms C were happy at the time to pay for it. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their situation changed 
or they no longer wanted it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr J and Ms C still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given 
clearer information as it gave useful protection in Mr J and Ms Cs particular situation. 
This means I havent seen enough overall to be able to say that Mr J and Ms C have lost out 
as a result of anything that Santander did wrong when it sold them the PPI. So it doesnt 
need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman