DRN-3849610
The complaint
Mr Ss representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was given unsuitable advice by 
Square Mile Asset Management Limited (SMAM) to invest in an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS), which was then transferred into a self invested personal pension 
(SIPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out a detailed background to the 
complaint in his assessment of the case  and with which neither party seems to disagree. 
Rather than paraphrase that assessment, Im broadly setting it out below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In early 2013, SMAM made Mr S aware of the Omega Build & Design investment 
opportunity. Its not entirely clear as to how the initial contact was made. Mr Ss 
representative has said that he was cold called, but SMAMs position is that he likely 
responded to a marketing email.
However, irrespective of the manner of the initial contact, following this, a fact find was 
completed on 27 March 2013 (albeit signed by Mr S later). It recorded Mr Ss circumstances 
as follows:
Mr S was 39 and had no financial dependants
He was an investment banker 
Mr Ss annual salary was £125,000 pa and he received an annual bonus of 
£150,000. Mr S had around £10,000 disposable income per month.
Mr S owned his own home worth £550,000. He held £150,000 in a current
account and also owned a boat which was worth £100,000.
He held a stakeholder pension with Standard Life which had been opened recently. It
had a value of around £152,000. He was also a member of his employers company
pension, but it wasnt noted how much this was worth.
Mr S also signed documents which confirmed that he was a High Net Worth (HNW) client
and a Self-Certified Sophisticated Investor (SCSI).
His attitude to risk (ATR) was the second highest on the scale of SMAMs ATR assessment. 
It was noted he was medium to high.
He answered strongly agree to the following statements:
I take an active interest in financial matters and have a good understanding of markets and 
investments.
Investing in potentially volatile specialist areas at home and abroad interests me.
And he agreed with the following:
Achieving good returns is more important than reducing potential losses.
I would worry if my investments could rise or fall rapidly.
If my investments fell significantly in line with the market, I might see this as a time to buy 
more.
I sometimes take considerably more risk with a specific sum than with my main portfolio 
investments.
Mr S confirmed that he agreed with the medium-high risk rating attributed to him.
It was noted that Mr S was happy to take high risk with pension investments due to tax relief 
and long-term nature of investments.
In terms of his general financial objectives, the fact find recorded that Mr Ss priorities were 
investment planning, maintaining your standard of living in retirement and reducing your 
tax burden.
On 19 June 2013, SMAM issued a letter of suitability confirming its recommendation for Mr S 
to invest in Omega. Whilst not mentioned on the previous fact find, it highlighted that Mr
Ss investment objectives were as follows:
to seek an investment with attractive commercial returns over a period of 4-5 years
to participate in an investment opportunity in a risk-managed and tax-efficient
environment.
to sell the investment to your pension funds through the use of a self-invested
personal pension (SIPP).
SMAM advised Mr S to invest £153,550 in the Omega Design & Build Partners LLP. 85% of 
the investment was to be funded with a future recourse loan option. The rest was to be 
financed by Mr S himself - £23,033.
The business plan/brochure set out the following about the investment:
The Project
The development is for a 5-star branded hotel, with luxury residential apartments and a 
conference centre (the "Development").

The Development will be carried out by several partnerships, each taking responsibility for 
an aspect of the Development. Omega Design and Build Partners No.15 LLP (the 
"Partnership") will assist with the design, construction and management of the conference 
centre, as well as carrying out other property related services in relation to the
Development, such as upgrading the beach facilities in front of the hotel and the fit-out of the 
casino and the retail units (the "Project").
The companies and individuals investing into the Partnership will be referred to throughout 
this Information Pack as the partners (the "Partners").
The Partners will be involved in carrying out the Project.
The Investment Opportunity
Who might invest?
The Project will be of greatest interest to companies and individuals who are looking to 
invest surplus cash into a fast growing property market with risk-managed exposure.
What is the minimum investment?
The minimum investment is £50,000, which will be contributed directly into the Partnership 
by the Partners. The Partnership intends to raise approximately £300,000 from the Partners, 
to capitalise its proposed property business. The Partners have the option to take out a loan
from Future Capital Project Finance Limited to leverage their contribution.
Partners may also subscribe for shares in the passive corporate founder, Omega No.15 
2012 Development Limited ("Omega Corporate"), which overall is expected to invest up
to £8m into the Partnership in its own right and from these subscriptions.
[CEO of Future Capital Partners], is one of the founding partners and the managing partner 
("Managing Partner") of the Partnership.
The Managing Partner and the Omega Corporate are referred to in this document as the 
("Founders").
What will the Partnership do?
The Partnership will provide design and construction services relating to the conference 
centre and further property services in relation to the Development ("Works and Services").
Under the heading Application for a Partnership Interest in the Partnership, the brochure 
set out the following:
Establishing a design and construction services business relating to the Expo Centre and 
further property related services business may expose you to a risk of losing all of your 
capital contribution. Potential partners should take independent advice and should carefully 
consider the Risk Factors on page 21 of this Business Plan before making any decision to 
become a partner in the Partnership.
Further to this, SMAM also gave Mr S advice in relation to his Standard Life Stakeholder 
pension. In addition to the circumstances outlined above, it was noted that Mr S had recently 
opened this plan to take advantage of the 50% tax relief available to him on pension 
contributions within the 2012/13 tax year. The main reasons for giving advice in relation to 
the stakeholder plan were recorded, and summarised, below:
It was noted that the investment choices within the stakeholder pension were limited
Mr S was a professional and sophisticated investor and ultimately wanted to
be able to control the investments within his pension fund. He specifically required
the ability to hold unquoted equities within his pension plan.
He wanted to have access to a wide range of investment funds with access to
speculative, specialist investments by using a SIPP
Mr S wanted to have maximum flexibility at retirement to control the way
benefits were paid and wished to retain the option of choosing depending on his
circumstances.SMAM advised Mr S to take out a MasterSIPP with Suffolk Life. The fund within
the stakeholder pension would be transferred to the Suffolk Life SIPP. The SIPP would also
allow Mr S to invest in investments aligned to his objectives outlined above, including the 
Omega Design & Build investment.
SMAM confirmed that, if Mr S accepted the recommendation to invest in the Omega
Build & Design project, it would receive a commission of £5,374 from Future Capital
Partners (FCP) who appeared to be, in part, leading the investment opportunity itself. The
costs of the advice to transfer his stakeholder pension were also outlined, with SMAM
receiving £300 from Suffolk Life for advising on the transfer.
The suitability reports contained various risk warnings in relation to the investment which
were to be read in conjunction with the other supporting material.
Mr S accepted these recommendations and, by the end of July 2013, he was invested in the 
Omega Design and Build investment and it was held within the SIPP into which he was 
advised to transfer his stakeholder pension.
Over the next couple of years, HMRC had concerns with the investment and began
an investigation into the tax status of the Omega scheme. The investigators understanding 
was that, at the time of his assessment, the investigation had not yet concluded and 
although hed asked for information regarding this, he hadnt received a reply as to whether 
Mr S has received a tax penalty for his involvement in the investment.
Further, the investment did not come to fruition. It ultimately failed and Mr S has lost the 
money which was invested.
Mr Ss representative then made a complaint about the suitability of the advice he received. 
An initial letter of complaint was sent to SMAM on 18 April 2019 and was then followed by a 
further letter of complaint on 26 June 2020. Various points were raised but ultimately, the 
complaint was that the advice Mr S received to invest in the Omega Design & Build
investment was unsuitable.
SMAM responded to the complaint on 18 August 2020. It said that Mr S had brought his 
complaint too late (under the DISP rules from the FCAs handbook, and which govern the 
operation of this service) and he was out of time. Dissatisfied with this, his representative 
referred the complaint to our service for an independent review.
An ombudsman at our service decided on 8 June 2022 that the complaint was one that our
service can consider (i.e. that it had been brought in time), so the complaint was passed to
the investigator to consider the merits.
In his assessment, the investigator said the following in summary:
There seemed to be no dispute that Mr S had been correctly classified as a 
HNW/SCSI.
But he didnt think that SMAM had done enough to satisfy the requirements as set 
out in COBS 9.2.1 (within the FCAs handbook) and which dealt with fact finding of 
a clients circumstances and objectives.
Specifically, neither Mr Ss financial experience nor his particular investment 
objectives had been recorded, and alternatives to the Omega investment hadnt been 
explored.But this didnt mean that the advice was necessarily unsuitable for Mr S. And having 
considered this, he thought that it was in fact suitable.
In support of this position, he said that Mr S was seeking high returns over a short 
period of time, that he was willing to take a medium-high level of risk as confirmed by 
his ATR, and that he had a high capacity for loss. £23,033 represented a low 
percentage of his net wealth and this was a low level of UCIS to hold as a proportion 
of his assets.
As noted in SMAMs final response letter, Mr S was an investment professional and 
had the FCA controlled functions CF21/CF30 since 2004. Mr S held a PhD and was 
considered to be an intelligent individual with sufficient knowledge and experience to 
understand the nature of the investment, along with the particular risks associated 
with it.
According to the emails between Mr S and SMAM at the time of the advice, Mr S 
clearly understood the investment and took an active role in its arrangement. It 
wasnt plausible to suggest that Mr S didnt understand the investment.
The investigator had asked SMAM to outline the due diligence it had undertaken on 
the investment, and he was satisfied that it had done so in line with the FCAs report 
on good and poor practices when recommending UCIS.
SMAM had said that it had various meetings with FCP and its advisers from 2011 
and it first visited the site in the same year. It had also shared various lengthy reports 
run by a number of the companies involved with the investment, along with a letter 
from a firm of chartered accountants in which the tax treatment of the LLP and limited 
company through which Mr S would be investing were discussed.
The suitability letter, along with other documentation, contained multiple risk 
warnings, and made Mr S aware that he could be worse off by following the 
investment recommendation. But Mr S nevertheless accepted the recommendation.
Although there may have been risks associated with the investment, it wouldnt 
automatically follow that it was unsuitable  nor would it necessarily be unsuitable if it 
didnt perform to expectations. Given Mr Ss circumstances and objectives, the 
investment was suitable for him.
Further, the investment couldnt reasonably be deemed to be unsuitable simply on 
the basis that HMRC began investigating it. SMAM had undertaken proper due 
diligence into the investment.
Mr Ss representative replied, providing responses to the questions which the investigator 
had previously posed, and responding to his view on the matter, as follows:
HMRC had concluded that the Omega LLPs werent carrying on a business with a 
view to profit, and that the capital repayments to the limited recourse loan would be 
treated as dividends. As it had also concluded that the shares disposed of to pension 
schemes were worthless, these would be treated as unauthorised payments (albeit 
with an offer of reduced tax charges). Mr S had yet to enter into an any settlement 
arrangements with HMRC.
Mr Ss Omega investment was worthless and hed lost all of his invested money.SMAM cold called Mr S, and the adviser had one objective, which was to recommend 
the Omega investment and the secondary SIPP planning structure. The latter wasnt 
revealed until Mr S had signed all the necessary paperwork for the investment  it 
was all very rushed.
Contrary to SMAMs assertions, Mr S wasnt drawn to the Omega investment due to 
its geared nature  he simply followed SMAMs advice. 
The fact find contained errors, such as there being no record of Mr S having an offset 
mortgage, but the adviser told Mr S that this was the right way to complete it, so as 
not to distort his apparent financial position.
Mr Ss attitude to risk had been inflated  he wasnt willing to accept that a large part, 
or all, of his investment could be lost, and his risk profile also didnt indicate this. 
Whilst it noted that Mr S was willing to accept a higher level of risk for investment 
held within his pension, SMAM failed to address this in the suitability report and 
simply said that Mr S had a high attitude to risk.
Mr Ss investment objectives were reverse engineered by SMAM and were used in 
each of the advisers template recommendations.
The investment didnt in any case meet those objectives. For example, this was a 
long term investment over a period of 25 years and so wasnt consistent with the 
objective of receiving returns over a four to five year period.
One of the main features of previous Omega offerings was the opportunity to 
generate up to nine times return on equity over the four to five year period, but this 
was absent from the promotional literature by the time of this advice. 
By placing the investment in a pension wrapper, Mr S would in any case be unable to 
access the investment returns until he was 55  25 years hence.
Mr S didnt conduct his own due diligence  SMAM provided the brochures, which it 
read through with him, and he may have spoken to FCP on the phone, but this was 
also limited to reading through brochures.
If SMAM had completed due diligence on the investment, this raised separate 
concerns, as it didnt identify that it couldnt meet its clients objectives.
The letter from the firm of chartered accountants raised significant concerns about 
the viability of the Omega offering. It said that it was a high risk, speculative project 
with a very uncertain outcome, the income predictions were based upon supposition, 
there was no evidence to support the intention that the company would be profitable, 
there were no tangible assets, nor any certifiable construction which could give rise 
to a valuation for work in progress.
The conclusion was that no value could be attributed to the LLP, and SMAM should 
have identified these issues, along with it having progressed since it began its initial 
due diligence in 2011  and that it couldnt provide returns over the intended four to 
five year timespan.Mr S had no experience of this kind of investment. Hed only held shares in his own 
employer which had been issued to him as part of his remuneration. Hed never used 
a SIPP or made pension contributions other than to his employers pension.
Simply because Mr S had been attributed the HNW and SCSI categorisations, this 
didnt mean that Omega was a suitable investment for him.
Further, SMAM had noted that, as Mr S was regulated and was an educated 
individual, he should have been aware of the risks associated with Omega. But Mr 
Ss PhD was in a niche non-financial field, and although he worked with financial 
products, these were entirely different to the Omega offering.
Mr S didnt have the tools or the knowledge to understand the intricacies of the 
investment. It was an extremely esoteric investment, which relied on cash flows from 
a hotel and leisure complex. Even an educated individual couldnt be expected to 
automatically be aware of all the risks.
Moreover, Mr S was paying SMAM to recommend a suitable product and make him 
aware of the risks. The investigator had found that SMAM had failed in its regulatory 
obligations to Mr S, but he was the one being punished, simply because he worked in 
finance.
Mr S also had no experience with tax products or any knowledge of HMRCs interest 
in Omegas tax structure and associated individual tax mitigation strategies.
There had been no assessment of the tax implications of the secondary pension 
planning. The only risk warning provided to Mr S in respect of HMRC was that the 
levels and bases of tax relief were subject to change and that, based on its advice, 
Mr S may be worse off. There was no indication that, subject to HMRC investigation 
of the scheme, Mr S may incur losses greater than his original capital contribution. 
And this was where the majority of Mr Ss losses had arisen.
It agreed that, simply because a product is high risk this doesnt mean that it is 
unsuitable, but Omega was unsuitable because it failed to meet Mr Ss objectives 
and wasnt aligned to his investment experience or risk profile.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view on the matter, saying the following in 
response:
The recorded objectives may not have been specific to Mr S, but he was satisfied 
that he was nevertheless seeking a high risk/high reward investment, and Omega 8 
was consistent with this.
He noted the comments relating to Mr S not having undertaken his own due 
diligence, but didnt have anything further to add to the points hed already made.
He further said he disagreed with the points raised about Mr Ss likely understanding 
of the investment, along with the associated risks, and wished to clarify that he hadnt 
said that the investment was suitable purely on the basis of Mr Ss HNW and SCSI 
status. Rather, this was an indication of his circumstances and knowledge and 
understanding. 
The investigator said that, as agreement couldnt be reached, the matter would be referred 
to an ombudsman for review.SMAM also commented upon the investigators assessment as follows:
It believed that Mr S would have responded to an email marketing campaign 
regarding end of year tax planning, and it attached an example of this.
It considered that it had gathered enough information to satisfy know your client 
requirements. Mr S held CF21 and CF30 and was working as an investment 
professional  and so was deemed to have an excellent knowledge of investments 
and the associated risks.
Mr S agreed with the statement I take an active interest in financial matters and 
have a good understanding of markets and investments within the risk 
questionnaire. Mr S clearly had sufficient investment knowledge and experience.
It refuted the suggestion that no other investments or SIPP providers were 
discussed. The whole point of the meeting was to discuss tax panning opportunities, 
including ISAs, pensions, enterprise investment schemes (EISs), and venture capital 
trusts (VCTs).
Mr S was most interested in private equity investments due to their potential for high 
returns and geared nature  and Omega was one of two of these under 
consideration.
Mr S had also agreed with the statements Investing in potentially volatile specialist 
areas at home and abroad interest me and I have a good idea of the type of 
investments I like and would not invest more than I am prepared to lose. He also 
confirmed that his investment time horizon was five years or more.
It had suggested to Mr S that any investment could be split between Omega and the 
other private equity product under consideration  Elysian Fuels  but Mr S decided 
to invest only in Omega  as it said was evidenced by an email it attached to its 
response. 
Other SIPP providers had been discussed, but Suffolk Life was one of the few which 
would accept the unquoted shares from its own due diligence standpoint.
As to a possible HMRC investigation about the valuation of the Omega stock, Mr S 
was aware of this. SMAMs view was that the Omega shares could be sold to a SIPP 
at a fully independently qualified market value, and although Suffolk Lifes view was 
initially the same, following discussion with FCP it decided that FCP/Omega could 
provide the share price valuation. It attached the Omega stock letters to its response, 
which it said Mr S had signed.
SMAM didnt devise the secondary pension planning  selling the stock to the SIPP  
this was devised by FCP and approved by numerous SIPP providers. It attached 
FCP marketing relating to this from the time.
Mr Ss representative then added the following comments for my attention  I wont repeat 
those already made and noted above:
Mr S had expressed concern that the only objective which was seemingly now being 
considered was for a high risk/high reward investment, rather than the return over a short period of time. It seemed that the decision had been amended to ensure that it 
wasnt upheld.
From the timing of the various fact finds and risk assessments it could be seen that 
SMAM had already decided on the Omega investment several months before even 
discussing Mr Ss appetite for risk. These documents were only completed a matter 
of days before finalising the investment. 
Mr S had confirmed that his objective was not to invest in a high risk/high reward 
product. The investment was presented to him, but SMAMs representation of the 
product was inaccurate and misleading. Mr S was categorically not seeking an 
investment which was at the highest end of the risk spectrum. 
Of the two investments offered by SMAM, Omega and Elysian fuels, the adviser 
positioned the former as having the lower risk. The adviser gave the impression that 
the Omega development was at the point where construction could begin, that all 
relevant permissions had been obtained and that the income was almost guaranteed. 
It was this perception  that many of the key development milestones had been met 
and income was anticipated  which led Mr S to believe that it wasnt a high risk 
investment.  
But the information provided by the adviser was inaccurate, and Omega was at the 
highest end of the risk spectrum, along with Elysian Fuels. Had Mr S appreciated 
this, he wouldnt have invested.
From the email trail between Mr S and SMAM, the latter had failed to address any 
potential issues with HMRC and instead attempted to provide numerous assurances 
that Omega was compliant in every sense, including HMRC requirements. 
Specifically, SMAM confirmed that the SIPP provider had ensured that the 
investment purchase was fully compliant with HMRC requirements and referred to 
the providers statements about providing an independent valuation.
SMAM said that it had undertaken significant due diligence on the investment and it 
would therefore be assumed that it had obtained details about an independent 
valuation. This had never happened, and it suspected that SMAM had interpreted the 
chartered accountants letter to be a valuation  but it wasnt and shouldnt have 
been interpreted as such.
Had there been any concerns about the compliance aspect of the investment, Mr S 
wouldnt have invested.
This was a highly geared product, and at no point did SMAM envisage that Mr Ss 
loss could exceed the capital investment. It was negligent for SMAM to not have at 
least contemplated this within its recommendation.
Although there was an implication in the investigators assessment that the suitability 
of an investment would depend on an individuals investment experience, Mr S had 
no experience in anything similar to Omega. And his work involved the mathematics 
and financials which underpin financial products. Mr S didnt fully appreciate the risks 
of the investment, and it couldnt be assumed that, simply because he worked in 
finance he would understand the risks of all financial products.
Mr Ss assertion that he wasnt a high risk investor was borne out by the risk 
assessment. Mr S neither wrote, nor agreed, with the statement that he was willing to take higher risks with investments held within his pension due to the long term nature 
of the investment and the tax relief. The risk assessment was completed by the 
adviser, in his handwriting, and Mr S was asked to sign this with many other 
documents in a caf in order to submit the documents before the next investment 
deadline.
Although not required, SMAM went to great lengths to complete extensive due 
diligence on the product commencing in 2011, presumably as it was aggressively 
marketing it to its clients and it had potential concerns about it.
It would therefore have expected the due diligence to have considered all aspects of 
the Omega structure. HMRCs investigation highlighted the fundamental flaws in the 
investment and that it had no value at the time the advice was provided. HMRCs key 
finding was that the shares were worthless  and so SMAM couldnt on the one hand 
say that it had completed extensive due diligence, but on the other failed to have 
picked up on such obvious issues.
SMAMs regulatory breaches werent inconsequential, and it failed to: conduct its 
business with due skill and diligence; pay regard to its customers interest; act with 
integrity; and have suitable management and control to ensure that standards were 
being adhered to, and that the advice was compliant with COBS. 
Where conduct fell below expected standards, the FCA considered it legitimate for 
consequences to follow  but there appeared to be no consequences for SMAMs 
actions.
The key reason as to why Mr Ss complaint should be upheld was that SMAMs 
advice breached numerous regulations and failed to meet his investment objectives.
As agreed, the complaint has now been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss understanding of the investment
Id firstly acknowledge what Mr S, and his representative, have said about not appreciating 
the actual risks, and complexities, involved in the investment. But even if I were to accept 
that, I need to consider whether he ought to have appreciated these on the basis of the 
information which was provided by SMAM and other parties.
Much has been said about Mr Ss employment, background and education, both financial 
and non-financial. And having considered all of this, Mr S is clearly an intelligent individual 
who would, in my view, more likely than not have the capability to understand this type of 
investment, and what it represented  even if he hadnt invested in something like this 
before.
Im afraid that the notion that Mr S didnt have the tools or knowledge to understand the 
investment is simply fanciful. And whilst I agree that Mr Ss education and position in 
financial services may not have automatically furnished him with an understanding of the 
risks associated with the investment, he was nevertheless perfectly capable of finding out, 
and as the inquisitive, educated individual he clearly was, it seems inconceivable that he would have invested without doing so.
And I think this is supported by the available documentation from the time of the sale. Its 
been said that Mr S didnt undertake his own due diligence on the investment, but even if it 
couldnt necessarily be concluded that this was as extensive as that which might be 
undertaken by a firm such as SMAM, Mr S was clearly very engaged in the process, and 
expressed a keen interest in understanding it. I note that he was also keen to visit the 
development site, although as far as I can tell, the logistics of the available trips didnt allow 
for this to happen.
There are aspects of the available documentation, and the email trail between Mr S and 
SMAM in particular, which I think strongly support the above position. For example, the email 
of 27 March 2013 from the SMAM adviser set out in what I think was very clear terms the 
process of investing in Omega and using a SIPP to effectively buy the shares and release 
the pension funds for reinvestment. Rather than the pension planning being of a secondary 
nature, this was set out as the first part of the process.
Mr Ss response to this was as follows:
I'm looking at the possibility of setting up a stakeholder pension scheme in the current tax 
year (2012-13). To assess it I will need some more information from you.
1) Could you please send me the documentation/information for the limited recourse finance.
2) What is the expected time to finalise the capital rise for each of the Elysian/Omega 
Investment and to close transaction?
3) We would need to meet this week to discuss the details as I have more questions about 
Elysian/Omega Investment.
Mr S then sought a meeting with FCP to discuss the investment further, saying that In my 
mind a necessary condition to commit to the investment is to be able to assess it in the best 
way possible.
Mr S also requested details as to FCPs track record, to which SMAM responded by 
providing a due diligence pack for it, caveating this with the comment that it had previously 
been involved with tax structured investments where the upside derived of the tax 
treatment rather than the asset itself.
The emails confirmed that the SIPP provider, Suffolk Life, had re-approved the investments 
as ones which could be held within its SIPP. And SMAM was simply conveying this fact. 
Mr S then asked several questions relating to the costs involved in investing in Omega, 
which appear to have been answered to his satisfaction, along with a request for updated 
product literature for both Omega and Elysian Fuels.
Mr S later said in further communication, by this time 3 June 2013, that he was still 
deliberating which investment of the two he wanted to invest in, and asked as to when the 
next available tranche of investments would be if the opportunity for the current one was 
missed.
And although Mr Ss representative has said that the risks of Omega were misrepresented 
by SMAM, which led Mr S to choose it, SMAM then suggested in response that Mr S could 
invest in both and that the timing for doing so could work quite well.Mr S confirmed his choice of the Omega investment on 12 June 2013, and subsequent 
communication focussed on the practicalities of making the pension investment.
I note that Mr Ss representative has further said that he believed the investment to be fully 
compliant with HMRC requirements, but there is then the matter of the letter which Mr S sent 
to Suffolk Life dated 19 June 2013 relating to the sale of the Omega stock to his SIPP. Mr S 
said the following:
I understand that these transactions must be completed at the current market value and I 
understand that it is my responsibility to ensure this is obtained correctly.
I can confirm that I have arranged for Omega No. 15 2012 developments Limited to provide 
confirmation of the current market value for these shares in order to proceed with this 
transaction.
I am happy that the market value they have provided is correct and I understand that should 
HMRC later decide that these transactions have not been completed at the current market 
value, then I will be personally liable for any tax charges or penalties they impose.
Again, Im afraid this doesnt sit comfortably with the position that Mr S considered the 
investment to be HMRC compliant or that any losses would be limited to his initial 
investment. If he did, it would rather beg the question as to why he considered such a 
declaration about accepting responsibility for any future charges or penalties to be 
necessary.
Mr Ss representative has also said that, on the basis of the due diligence undertaken by 
SMAM, it should itself have realised that the shares were worthless  and that, had Mr S 
been aware of this, he wouldnt have invested.
Ive therefore thought carefully about whether this would reasonably have been deemed to 
be the case when the investment was made, and if so, whether this should have been 
apparent to SMAM. 
Having done so, I dont think the available evidence supports the position that SMAM ought 
to have been aware that this was the case when Mr S invested. HMRC may have later 
deemed the shares to have no value, and Ill address the matter of the lack of independent 
valuation presently, but Ive considered the comments of the chartered accountant in its 
letter dated 22 July 2013:
Investment by the Company
The Company has invested £2,809,223 as capital in the LLP. This is an investment in a 
trading entity, and is long term in its nature. As stated above, it is a high risk investment 
whose outcome is uncertain, but in respect of which there is no difference in the 
circumstances now compared to those at the date of the investment.
As a fixed asset investment, UK GAAP requires that it is stated at its market value, which, in 
the case of an investment in a private entity with no ready market for its shares, would 
normally be at cost, less any necessary provision for impairment of the investment.
At the point of investment in the LLP, the purpose and application of the investment is known 
to the Company and perceived by the investor to be worth the value paid. Impairment will 
occur if and only if circumstances or information arises that would change the prospects and 
likelihood of a successful outcome.Since, at the date of writing, the investment by the Company has been applied in 
accordance with the proposals indicated to the Company, despite the accounting treatment 
properly applied by the LLP, we are not aware of any evidence of any change in 
circumstances, and therefore, there has been no impairment.
While the financial statements of the Company may carry additional information concerning 
the underlying investment intended to ensure that they give a true and fair view, including, 
for example, a statement of the net assets of the LLP at the balance sheet date, the 
appropriate carrying value of the investment, absent information to the contrary, will remain 
at its original cost so long as the financial statements are prepared on the going concern
basis.
Mr Ss representative is right in saying that this didnt represent a valuation (again, which I 
address further below), but I dont think the above commentary would necessarily have 
caused concern about the valuation attributed to the Omega shares when Mr S invested. 
There were certainly features of the investment, such as the financing still being arranged 
and the construction not yet begun, which meant that any valuation would be speculative, 
but I dont think this is information which was unfairly withheld from Mr S. At the outset of the 
email communication, SMAM informed Mr S that both the Omega and Elysian Fuels 
investments were highly speculative in nature and only suitable for HNW Individuals with a 
speculative attitude to investment risk. And so I dont think I could fairly or reasonably 
conclude that Mr S wasnt in a position where he ought to have been aware of the possibility 
of any subsequent valuation being different. 
And as set out (above) in Mr Ss letter to Suffolk Life, I think he ought reasonably to have 
been aware that there was the possibility that HMRCs assessment of the shares value 
might be different.
Overall, therefore, although I note that Mr S has said that he didnt understand the 
complexities and risks associated with the investment, my view is that, on the basis of the 
available evidence, even if it could reasonably concluded that he didnt, he ought reasonably 
to have done.  
Was the Omega investment suitable for Mr S?
But simply because Mr S understood, or ought to have understood the investment, this 
wouldnt necessarily render it suitable for him. As observed by Mr Ss representative, SMAM 
was the professional party here, and this wasnt a situation of Mr S, as part of regular 
reviews with a familiar IFA, being presented with opportunities to mitigate his tax liability  
and with which he was familiar or had past experience.
Theres the suggestion here that Mr S responded to a marketing email, as indicated by the 
evidence submitted by SMAM, and communication, firstly in a meeting on 27 March 2013, 
and then as a mixture of email correspondence and further meetings, continued until the 
investment was made in June 2013.
Im inclined to agree with both the investigator and Mr Ss representative in that the risk 
attitude assessment and recommendation process seems to have occurred in a rather 
unorthodox manner, with all of the information relating to the investment, and discussion as 
to how this might look for Mr S specifically, taking place before the ATR questionnaire was 
completed, and the suitability report subsequently issued.
But this doesnt by itself mean that the recommendation to invest was ultimately unsuitable, 
if it in any case was aligned to Mr Ss circumstances and objectives. And Ive also noted that the first page of the fact find was dated 27 March 2013, which is the date of the first email 
about the Omega proposition, although the document appears to have been signed by Mr S 
on 13 June 2013. So I think its more likely than not that, given that a meeting occurred on 
27 March 2013, SMAM was reasonably aware of Mr Ss situation and his objectives, even if 
these may not have been articulated in a formal recommendation until June 2013.
Addressing Mr Ss circumstances, I dont think theres disagreement as to the details set out 
in the investigators assessment and repeated above. Mr S had agreed that he was a HNW 
individual, as borne out by his recorded income and assets, and he had also agreed that he 
was a SCSI  again, lent credence by his employment, regulated status and likely 
understanding of financial matters.
So I dont think it was inappropriate for the UCIS to be promoted to him.
In the list of financial objectives recorded in the fact find, the greatest priority was afforded to 
reducing his tax burden, investment planning, and maintaining his standard of living in 
retirement. None of these would, in my view, be inconsistent with the Omega investment. 
The proposition as set out in the email of 27 March 2013 would, if the scheme was 
successful, attain tax efficiency through the sale of the shares to the SIPP, which in turn 
would enhance Mr Ss pension provision for his retirement needs, and also reasonably 
constitute investment planning.
The later suitability report set out Mr Ss objectives as follows:
To seek an investment with attractive commercial returns over a period of 4-5 years.
To participate in an investment opportunity in a risk-managed and tax-efficient 
environment.
To sell the investment to your pension funds through the use of a Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
As to the initial objectives, Ive noted whats been said about Omega not being able to 
produce returns over such a short time period. The contract to manage the development was 
for 25 years, and Ive noted the point made by Mr Ss representative about the opportunity to 
generate up to nine times return on equity over a four to five year period being absent from 
FCPs promotional literature by 2013.
On the particular point of the pension planning, Ive noted the comments about the projected 
return not being achieved within four to five years due to the investment being held within a 
pension wrapper, but even if one of Mr Ss objectives hadnt been to provide for his 
retirement, I dont accept that the inability to access the returns until age 55 would 
compromise the actual investment return period. For example, its quite feasible that, once 
such an investment had achieved its return, Mr S would have then been able to reinvest 
within something else. And my understanding from documents relating to the Omega 
investment is that, for a time at least, the shares were being bought and sold.
But I dont in any case think that Mr S needed to, or envisaged, accessing the return after 
five years if one of his primary objectives was retirement provision. Moreover, I think Mr S 
would himself have appreciated that he wouldnt be able to access his pension benefits until 
later in life. 
Therefore, whilst the suitability report may have set out one of his objectives as seeking an 
investment with attractive commercial returns over a period of four to five years, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr S appreciated and understood that, although there may have been the possibility of returns in a short space of time, the 25 year contract to manage the 
development was broadly consistent with the investment being held in his SIPP. And as a 
SIPP is designed to hold this type of investment, I dont think that advice to establish one for 
that purpose would have been unsuitable.
Mr Ss representative has also said the objectives were reverse engineered to ensure that 
the Omega investment seemed suitable, and that they were generically produced and 
recorded for many clients of the same firm. But these were clearly set out in the suitability 
report. And Mr S was clearly capable of understanding what they meant. And so, even if this 
wasnt reflective of his true position, it might reasonably be expected that he would have 
raised this as an issue at the time. And if he was being told to record, or omit, particular 
aspects of his finances, or agree to objectives which werent his own, I think this might 
reasonably, certainly for someone like Mr S, have been something of a red flag.
In terms of Mr Ss capacity for loss, aside from his main residence valued at £550,000, Mr S 
was recorded as having capital holdings of £250,000, which comprised of £150,000 on 
deposit and a boat worth £100,000. From a gross annual income of £275,000, Mr S had 
monthly disposable income of £10,000. And so, even discounting the amount which Mr S 
had on deposit, the capital investment into Omega constituted just over two months 
disposable income. And so, given that Mr S was 40 at the time of the advice, with a further 
25 years employment ahead of him until his envisaged retirement age, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that, even if the investment was lost, he would be in a position to recoup that 
loss.
This position is further endorsed by Mr S strongly agreeing with the statement in the ATR 
questionnaire that he wouldnt invest more than he was prepared to lose.
Further, having concluded above that Mr S ought to have been aware of the possibility of 
HMRC applying tax charges to the investment, I also consider that Mr S would be in a 
position to pay these if required.
Its fair to say that Mr Ss ATR still needed to be consistent with the proposed investment. He 
may have been a HNW individual who was also a SCSI, with an appropriate capacity for 
loss, but it doesnt necessarily follow that he would want to expose a proportion, or any 
aspect, of his financial planning to high risk.
But I dont think thats the case here. Other than Mr Ss answer to one question in the ATR 
questionnaire relating to him worrying if his investments could rise or fall rapidly, which I 
think would be more consistent with perhaps equities, or the derivatives with which Mr S 
would have been familiar through his employment, rather than this type of investment, Mr Ss 
answers were consistent with the type of risk represented by Omega. 
Mr S was at this point recorded as a medium to high investor, but by the time of the issue 
of the suitability report on 19 June 2013, this had increased to high, with the following 
commentary:
You accept high levels of risk with your investments, aiming to achieve higher long-term 
investment returns. This may mean your funds can fluctuate very significantly and you could 
lose a significant proportion, in some cases possibly all, of your investment.
Given your current circumstances, we believe this investment matches your speculative 
attitude to risk.
As above with regard to the investment objectives, Ive noted the comment that Mr S didnt 
want to take a high level of risk with this investment, but Mr S was clearly capable of understanding what was meant by the above. And so, if the content of the ATR 
questionnaire and the suitability report wasnt reflective of his true attitude to risk, it might 
reasonably be expected that he would have raised this as an issue at the time.
And so, for the reasons given, I dont think the Omega investment was unsuitable for Mr S.
Did SMAM mislead Mr S?
As Ive said above, Mr S was clearly an intelligent, capable individual, and one who 
understood, or ought reasonably to have understood, the nature of the investment.
Ive also noted that Mr S was actively engaged in the arrangement of the investment, and 
took an interest in it, such that I think he would have been reassured by the way it had been 
presented to him. 
But the presentation of the investment then becomes important. Mr S may have been 
capable of understanding it, and had to an extent undertaken his own due diligence on it, but 
he would still have been broadly reliant on what he was told about the investment by SMAM.
Further, whilst Mr S may have been aware that the investment was speculative and carried a 
high risk to his capital, I think its fair to say that an individual in his position would 
nevertheless have taken a calculated risk. Mr Ss representative has said that he chose 
Omega over Elysian fuels on the basis that he considered the former to be the more viable 
proposition. And again, that calculation of risk would reasonably have been based upon what 
he was being told by SMAM, amongst others, about the investment.
And so Ive noted that, in the suitability report, one of the main features of the investment 
was described as follows:
The freedom, subject to pre-emption rights in favour of the developers to sell some of the 
investment to your SIPP, at full independently qualified current value. This will enable the 
investment to grow free of tax. (my emphasis)
But as Ive said above, the letter from the chartered accountants wasnt a valuation of the 
shares. It clearly said so as follows:
This report is not a valuation of the property, the businesses, the members' capital of the 
LLP nor the shares in the Company. It is an explanation of the accounting treatment that we, 
as prospective auditors of the Company and of the LLP, consider will be most appropriate 
under current accounting standards and on the basis of the information and explanations 
given to us for the purpose of this report.
The reality was that, as far as I can tell, there had been no independent valuation of the 
shares. Whilst initially saying that it was only willing to accept the shares on the basis of an 
independent valuation, Suffolk Life changed its position and accepted them at cost. 
So Ive further thought about to what extent, if any, Mr S understood that the value of the 
shares hadnt been independently verified. And having done so, I think there are several 
documents within the case file which lead me to the reasonable conclusion that Mr S was, 
more likely than not, aware that there had been no independent valuation of the shares.
Firstly, the Unlisted Company Shares Investor Agreement signed and dated by Mr S on 13 
June 2013 said the following under the title Valuation of shares:
Unlisted company shares often do not have a readily available valuations and can be difficult and costly to value when required.
Suffolk Life will account for the shares either at cost price, or at the most recently 
available valuation
This value may be significantly out of date and will not necessarily represent the true 
value of the shares.
I dont think any of these statements would reasonably have indicated to Mr S that the 
shares had been independently valued.
There is then the matter of the letter from Mr S to Suffolk life dated 19 June 2013, which I 
think is worth repeating here, in which he said the following:
I write with reference to my instruction to sell the following investments to my SIPP:

I can confirm that I have arranged for Omega No. 15 2012 Developments Limited to provide 
confirmation of the current market value for these shares in order to proceed with this 
transaction.
I am happy that the market value they have provided is correct and I understand that should 
HMRC later decide that these transactions have not been completed at the current market 
value, then I will be personally liable for any tax charges or penalties they impose.
Again, I dont think this is indicative of Mr S reasonably believing that there had been an 
independent valuation of the shares. That he had arranged for Omega itself to provide the 
current market value, and that it then did so in a letter dated 8 July 2013, would in my view 
suggest the opposite.
Further, emails exchanged between Mr S and the SMAM adviser in February 2014 in 
response to another email from SMAM similar to that received in 2013 about tax planning, 
demonstrate that Mr S expressed an interest in investing further in Omega (and also EISs, 
SEISs and VCTs). Mr S asked if there had been any changes relating to Omega (and 
Elysian Fuels) and the prospect of using a SIPP to invest in them, to which the adviser 
replied that Suffolk Life would no longer accept either without a full independent valuation for 
each transaction. 
I think its important to note that Mr S expressed no surprise at the lack of an independent 
valuation when hed invested eight months earlier, and simply asked whether the rounds of 
funding for Omega (and Elysian Fuels) would be coming to an end.
And so, on balance, I dont think it was the case that, despite the wording within the 
suitability report, Mr S would reasonably have considered the Omega shares to have been 
independently valued.
SMAMs adherence to regulatory requirements
To be clear, I think the suitability report was wanting in a number of respects, and if it was 
the only document which existed to demonstrate the way in which the investment had been 
conveyed to Mr S, I might take a very different view on the outcome of the complaint. It was 
a very brief document, and contained at least one inaccuracy (as set out above) as to the 
basis of the investment.But as Ive explained above, the suitability letter was in reality the culmination of several 
months of Mr S familiarising himself with the details of the investment, and given the amount 
of information provided in other ways, it might to some extent explain the brevity of that 
document.
Thats not so say that it excuses it. Ive noted the comments of Mr Ss representative that 
SMAM failed in some of its key regulatory obligations, and I agree  I think it could and 
should have done better, certainly in the provision of the suitability report. The representative 
has said that this was issued as more of template than an individualised report, and this may 
well be the case.
But such failings dont necessarily mean that a complaint should be upheld by this service, if 
there are compelling reasons as to why it shouldnt, just as a seemingly compliant suitability 
report wouldnt necessarily mean that a complaint would be rejected.
And in this particular instance, given the very particular individual circumstances, I dont think 
that I can fairly or reasonably conclude that Mr S has been unsuitably advised, or that he 
didnt understand, or at least ought reasonably to have been in a position to understand by 
virtue of the information provided and the communication entered into between him and the 
other parties - including SMAM  about the nature of the investment.
Summary
The Omega investment clearly had very particular attributes which would mean that it was 
only suitable for a certain type of investor. And the features of that kind of investor would 
include a capability to understand the investment proposal and its highly speculative nature, 
an understanding that the investment could be lost, and also that penalties could be applied, 
along with the capacity to lose the capital and pay any such subsequent penalties.
Overall, having carefully considered the available evidence, I think Mr S could fairly and 
reasonably be said to fit this bill. Further, my view, for the reasons given above, is that the 
Omega investment proposal wasnt unsuitable for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman