DRN-4307338
The complaint
The estate of the Late Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
wont refund unauthorised transactions on the Late Mr Ms account.
What happened
Following Mr Ms passing in April 2022, the estate of Mr M contacted Halifax to explain that 
Mr M had been in receipt of an inheritance from their fathers estate in January 2021. The 
estate of Mr M advised Halifax that Mr M was disabled and that every ATM withdrawal since 
receipt of the inheritance was made fraudulently by Mr Ms friends. The estate of Mr M 
believes Mr M was taken advantage of. The value of the disputed ATM withdrawals totals 
£130,565. 
The estate of Mr M says the matter was reported to the police whilst Mr M was still alive 
which they say he wasnt happy about. Since Mr Ms passing, the estate of Mr M says further 
matters have been reported to the police. The estate of Mr M complained to Halifax about 
this. 
Halifax declined the estate of Mr Ms claim. It reviewed Mr Ms account spend and didnt find 
that the activity changed since the inheritance. It also noted that there was no evidence to 
show that Mr M was unable to manage his finances. It noted Mr M advised it that he was 
physically disabled but there was no evidence that he was taken advantage of or vulnerable. 
As the estate of Mr M wasnt happy with Halifaxs decision, they asked this service to 
investigate.
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He was unable 
to conclude that the disputed transactions were made fraudulently and he was satisfied the 
transactions were authorised and Halifax was entitled to hold Mr M liable under apparent 
authority. He also thought the transactions were in keeping with the normal account activity. 
But he felt Halifax should refund the transactions that were made after Mr Ms passing. 
Halifax accepted our investigators findings but the estate of Mr M did not. They asked for an 
Ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
The estate of Mr M provided further evidence that they attended Mr Ms flat after his passing 
and found one of his former friends squatting there. They contacted the police and provided 
the polices notes. The notes say in summary; officers attended the property and escorted 
the former friend back home. The former friend was also in possession of Mr Ms bank card 
and this was handed to the police.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
My task is firstly to determine whether the transactions were authorised (which I will go on to 
explain) and then whether there were any signs of financial abuse or fraud. My review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those reached by our investigator 
for broadly the same reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that the bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I 
have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
The Payment Services Regulations also require banks to refund any payments which a 
customer didnt authorise. So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we wouldnt generally 
ask a bank to refund them. 
But the regulations arent the only consideration. 
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should have also taken 
proactive steps to:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Halifax and the estate of Mr M have told us. Ive also looked at how Mr M used 
his account prior to his passing.
ATM cash withdrawals
In short, Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction under the 
regulations. But the bank can hold the estate liable for any disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M made or authorised them himself. 
So, my primary concern is to decide whether or not I think Mr M authorised the ATM cash 
withdrawals.
The disputed cash withdrawals started in January 2021. There were multiple cash 
withdrawals on mostly a daily basis ranging from £100 to £300 at a time. But most of the 
time, the individual cash withdrawals were £250 at a time and these would often be on more 
than one occasion on any given day.From listening to a call between Mr M and Halifax on 31 August 2021, I understand he gave 
his card to his friend to withdraw cash for him. Ive also noted a subsequent intervention on 2 
September 2021 where Mr M had attempted to withdraw £1,900 at a branch and Halifax 
stopped the payment for extra checks. Halifaxs notes indicate that the branch colleagues 
questioned Mr M around what the funds were needed for. He initially stated it was for food, 
however when pressed further by the branch colleague, he admitted the true purpose of the 
payments, which Im sure unsurprisingly to the estate of Mr M was for drugs. He also 
confirmed this was the reason he was withdrawing cash every day. 
Under the regulations, if Mr M allowed his friend to use his card then he is treated as having 
given authority or apparent authority to him to make transactions with it. And Im persuaded 
that Mr M either made the transactions himself, or authorised his friend to make them on his 
behalf. I can appreciate the estate of Mr Ms concerns about Mr Ms hospitalisation shortly 
before his passing where they said transactions were carried out that couldnt have been Mr 
M. However, Halifax can hold him (the estate) liable for the transactions, even if he didnt ask 
his friend to make the cash withdrawals or didnt know about them.
Halifax is entitled, therefore, to refuse to a refund of the disputed cash withdrawals on the 
basis that they were authorised by Mr M. 
Should Halifax have done more to protect Mr M?
If there were obvious signs of financial abuse or fraud which Halifax failed to act on, then I 
may consider whether its fair and reasonable for it to refund some or all of the disputed 
transactions. 
Ive seen Halifaxs records dated 31 August 2021 that it was aware of Mr Ms physical 
disability. Whilst Halifax was aware of Mr Ms physical disability part way through the period 
of disputed transactions, I dont see that there are any records indicating Mr M was 
incapable of managing his finances. I also dont think it would have been fair or reasonable 
for Halifax to assume Mr M was vulnerable for the sole reason of his physical disability. So I 
dont think it should have automatically blocked Mr Ms transactions after being notified of Mr 
Ms disability. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account activity prior to the period of disputed transactions (from 
November 2019), Ive noted that when he received credits into his account, hed withdraw 
cash from an ATM on almost a daily basis and often, multiple times a day. So when he 
received his inheritance in January 2021, Im satisfied the pattern of transactions matched 
his prior activity, just on a larger scale as he had more funds available for withdrawal. I 
therefore dont think that Halifax should have been concerned that Mr M was at risk of 
financial harm nor do I think it should have been concerned of potential fraud. 
But nevertheless, Ive noted that Halifax questioned Mr Ms cash withdrawals further in 
branch on 2 September 2021. Here, Mr M disclosed to Halifax the reason for his branch 
withdrawal request and daily cash withdrawals. 
Even though the reasons for the cash withdrawals was concerning for Mr Ms wellbeing, I 
think the evidence shows that Mr M was aware of the cash withdrawals along with the 
purpose of them. 
Theres also no evidence Mr M didnt benefit from the cash withdrawals, even if I accept the 
purpose of them were of concern for his wellbeing. And whilst Ive noted the estate of Mr M 
contacted the police to remove the friend from Mr Ms property after his passing, I also cant 
rule out the possibility that he also wanted to give some money to his friend.Im pleased Halifax has agreed to refund the disputed payments debited from Mr Ms 
account after his passing, this amounts to £4,135. Halifax will also apply 8% interest to this 
amount. I think this is fair in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything 
further. 
I recognise this will be disappointing news for the estate of Mr M. Ive no doubt this has been 
a painful and distressing experience. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has already made an offer to pay £4,135 plus 8% 
interest to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
So, my decision is Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should pay the estate of Mr M 
£4,135 plus 8% simple interest, per year, from the dates of the respective transactions to the 
date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman