DRN-1865622
The complaint
Mrs R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited caused the stopcock in her house to 
leak and this resulted in damage to her kitchen. 
What happened
Around July 2019, British Gas sent an engineer, who Ill refer to as D to carry out a repair 
under Mrs Rs homecare policy. As part of the repair process, D turned the water supply on 
and off using the stopcock in Mrs Rs kitchen. A few days later, Mrs R noticed that water was 
leaking from the stopcock and had flooded her kitchen. D returned and rectified the problem 
by tightening the packing gland.
Mrs R complained as British Gas refused to repair her damaged floor. British Gas said the 
leak was due to wear and tear and not because of a failing on Ds part. British Gas advised
Mrs R to make a claim under her home insurance policy instead.
Mrs R asked this service to get involved and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator didnt feel shed seen evidence that the leak was caused by wear and tear. The 
investigator said that D shouldve done more to make sure the stopcock wasnt leaking in the 
first place and concluded that, because the leak took place so soon after Ds visit  it was 
likely that the leak was as a result of something D had done or failed to do.
The investigator asked British Gas to replace Mrs Rs flooring and pay her £150 for the 
trouble and upset it caused her.
British Gas didnt agree. It says D had to use the stopcock in order to complete the repair it 
was there to do  and it shouldnt be responsible for the stopcock leaking because the leak 
wasnt evident when D turned the water supply back on. British Gas says the stopcock was 
used around six times over the course of 2019 and this wouldve contributed to wear and 
tear.
Because British Gas didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I didn't intend to ask British Gas to do 
anything more:
Did D cause the leak?
On balance, I can't say that D caused the leak. Mrs R says she noticed the leak five days 
after D attended her property and used the stopcock. I havent seen anything to indicate 
when the stopcock started leaking or anything that makes me think it leaked straight away 
after D turned it back on.
D only attended Mrs Rs property to repair her taps. The only interaction D had with the 
stopcock was to turn the water supply off and all D had to do was ensure that the water 
supply was turned back on  which it did. D wasnt there to assess the condition of or to repair the stopcock, so I wouldnt expect it to have done anything more than operate the 
stopcock as normal. D also says that it operated the stopcock by hand, so its not acted 
negligently by doing something that would cause damage. So I cant fairly say that the leak 
was because of something D did.
British Gas says the leak was because of wear and tear. Although none of Ds reports 
mention this, I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that this was the cause. And I 
wouldnt expect Ds reports to talk about the condition of the stopcock anyway, given D was 
only there to repair Mrs Rs taps. When D returned following Mrs R reporting the leak, it 
tightened the packing gland on the stopcock and this appears to have stopped the leak. D 
didnt replace or repair any of the stopcock components nor did it report any other damage.
So it seems the leak was likely caused by wear and tear and not because of something D 
did wrong. 
Should D have checked for leaks?
Mrs R says she noticed the leak several days after D used the stopcock  when it flooded 
her kitchen. As I said above, theres no way of knowing when the leak actually began. But 
whenever it did start leaking, it seems to have done so gradually - to start with at least  
otherwise Mrs R wouldve likely noticed it sooner.
So I dont think D did anything wrong when it didnt notice that the stopcock was leaking. D 
didnt have a responsibility to check the stopcock for leaks as the job it was there for wasnt 
related to the stopcock. As I said, all D had to do is make sure it turned the water supply on 
again. Even if the leak began straight away, its unlikely it was enough for D to spot there 
was a problem  otherwise, as British Gas says, Ds gloves wouldve been wet from the leak. 
If there was an immediate leak, its most likely that D wouldve noticed and wouldve done 
something to stop it. When D returned, it tightened the packing gland to stop the leak  so 
its likely D wouldve done the same if it spotted a leak the first time. Furthermore, the 
packing gland is an internal part of the stopcock, so even if D did carry out an assessment of 
the stopcock, its unlikely D wouldve noticed something like wear and tear or any other 
problem with this part.
So I cant fairly say that D shouldve done more to prevent the leak. D acted fairly when it 
returned to resolve the problem, but I dont think it is responsible for the damage caused by 
the leak. 
In summary, D attended Mrs Rs property to repair her taps, not the stopcock. So it didnt 
have a responsibility to check the condition of the stopcock or ensure it wasnt leaking. D 
appears to have used the stopcock for its normal function and seems to have done so in the 
usual way anyone would. Based on what Ive seen, I cant conclude that the stopcock was 
leaking straight away  or leaking enough for D to notice there was a problem. So I dont 
think D shouldve done anything different at the time and I dont intend on instructing it to do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas replied saying it had no further comments to add. Mrs R replied saying D 
should've checked for wear and tear and let her know there was a problem. She says she trusted D as a professional in this matter and that D should've made sure the stopcock 
mechanism was working properly. Mrs R is also upset that she's been left with a rotten floor.
I think my provisional decision addresses Mrs R's recent comments - so I'll summarise why 
my findings haven't changed. D was only there to repair Mrs R's taps, so it didn't have a 
responsibility to check the stopcock for any problems. All D had to do was make sure the 
water supply was turned back on.
I don't think the stopcock was leaking when D turned it back on - or it wasn't leaking enough 
for D or Mrs R to notice there was a problem. If there was an obvious leak, I think D would've 
done something to stop the leak straight away - just as it did when Mrs R got in touch to 
report the problem.
I sympathise with Mrs R's situation, but I can't fairly say that British Gas should be 
responsible for putting right the damage caused by the leak. 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman