DRN-2203267
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that HSBC Bank UK PLC (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Advance packaged bank account (previously branded as a Plus account), which I 
understand was sold to Mrs S in June 2006.
Mrs S has given a number of reasons why she believes it to have been mis-sold. These 
include that she was not presented with the option of a fee-free account; it was 
recommended to her on the basis that itll save her more money than it would cost; and she 
says she was not provided with clear, fair and unambiguous information about the account to 
make an informed decision.
Mrs S also complained that HSBC ignored her request to downgrade her account.
What happened
Mrs Ss account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free account 1997
Upgraded to an Advance account June 2006
In November 2014, HSBC changed the set-up of the Advance account so that it 
became fee-free. But it continued to provide some of the existing insurance benefits 
with the account under an Insurance Aspects pack, that incurred a monthly fee. Due 
to the changes made, HSBC contacted account holders to explain the changes and 
reminded consumers that they could opt out of the Insurance Aspects pack being 
added to their account, in the event they no longer needed the insurance benefits. 
The removal of the Advance fee and introduction of the Insurance Aspects pack was 
essentially seen as a continuation of the existing packaged account rather than as a 
separate sale.
Our adjudicators assessed Mrs Ss complaint and they didnt think the Advance account had 
been mis-sold. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the matter has been 
referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, I dont 
think its likely that the account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs S says that HSBC has been unable to provide any evidence from the sale of the 
account. So says that I should accept her recollections of the event as a true and accurate 
reflection of what happened and therefore find in her favour. However, given that this 
complaint relates to events that took place over 14 years ago, I dont think its unreasonable 
if HSBC no longer has paperwork from when the account was sold. But this does not mean 
that I simply accept what Mrs S as accurate, without also considering the wider evidence. 
Instead, where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I have to 
decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available. 
Obviously, a key part of this includes Mrs Ss version of events - which I have carefully 
reviewed alongside the little evidence that HSBC has been able to provide.
Mrs S says that HSBC didnt offer any other type of account  including fee-free options. But 
as Mrs S already had a fee-free account and had held a fee-free account with HSBC since 
1997, I think Mrs S was more likely than not aware fee-free accounts were generally 
available. So overall, I think that Mrs S agreed to the account knowing that it was optional 
and that she didnt have to have it, if she didnt want it. 
Mrs S says that the Advance account was recommended to her. Whereas HSBC has said 
that its sales processes at the time were carried out on a non-advised basis. That is to say 
that its branch staff wouldve discussed the cost of the account, its key features and also 
any exclusions or limitations that applied to those features. But the branch staff wouldnt 
have reviewed the customers circumstances or checked if the account was right for the 
customer  that wouldve been up to the customer to decide if the account was right for them 
based on the information theyd been given.
I dont doubt that HSBC encouraged Mrs S to upgrade to the Advance account for its 
features. But having considered the competing arguments, Ive not seen anything (including 
Mrs Ss testimony) that makes me think that the account was recommended because it met 
a specific need or that a review of Mrs Ss circumstances was carried out either. So I think it 
was likely to have been sold on a non-advised basis.
This means that HSBC wasnt obliged to check if the account was right for Mrs S. But it did 
have to give Mrs S important information about the account, so that she could decide for 
herself whether it was worth upgrading to.
Mrs S says that when the account was sold to her, the branch staff didnt mention any of the 
benefits of the account and simply said that she would save more by having the account 
than it cost her. However, in encouraging Mrs S to upgrade her account, I find it unlikely that 
the branch staff would not have mentioned the benefits of the account to make it seem 
attractive to her. And Im not persuaded that Mrs S wouldve agreed to the account unless it 
was broadly explained how the benefits might outweigh the costs to have it either. And given 
that we are referring to events that took place over 14 years ago, I also think its just as likely 
that the benefits of the account may have been discussed, but Mrs S now doesnt recall 
them being mentioned.
At the time of the sale, the account cost £12.95 per month. The main insurance benefit 
provided by the account was worldwide travel insurance. It also provided other banking 
benefits, such as fee-free ATM withdrawals abroad, and preferential interest rates on 
overdrafts and savings, as well as discounts on various other products and services.HSBC has provided evidence to show that Mrs S travelled to the USA shortly after the 
account was sold to her. It has also provided evidence that she travelled abroad on further 
occasions in 2007 and 2008, which is supported by Mrs S saying that she did occasionally 
travel too. And Mrs S does recall being told about preferential interest rates. And its correct 
that the account did provide better interest rates on both savings and borrowing  alongside 
discounts on a variety of other products and services - than if she held a standard fee-free 
account. 
Therefore, I think its more likely that Mrs S was given information about the account benefits 
and she agreed to the upgrade because she was interested in them - rather than because, 
as Mrs S recalls, she was given a vague assurance that the account would save her more 
money than it would cost.
I understand that Mrs S may not have needed all of the benefits provided by the account. 
For example, it provided overdraft benefits and I can see from sample statements that Mrs S 
operated the account consistently in a credit balance, so I appreciate that these may have 
been of little interest to Mrs S. But as the account was sold as a package, Mrs S couldnt 
pick and choose what it came with. Furthermore, I note that Mrs S has mentioned the mobile 
phone and breakdown cover provided by the account. But, as Mrs S rightly points out, these 
were not added until later. So I dont think whether she needed these benefits is relevant to 
whether the account was mis-sold in the first instance.
I accept that HSBC may not have given Mrs S all of the important information about the 
account that it shouldve done. But looking at Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, Ive not 
seen anything that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, 
had she been given even more information about it. And although Mrs S may now feel that 
the account has been poor value for money over the years shes held it, that doesnt mean 
that HSBC was wrong to have sold the account to her when it did.
As well as saying the account was mis-sold, Mrs S says that she instructed HSBC to 
downgrade the account, but says this was ignored. However, looking at her original 
complaint email and the chasing email she sent to HSBC, I cant see that Mrs S did instruct 
HSBC to downgrade her account. 
HSBC has provided a call note which indicates that Mrs S did discuss downgrading her 
account on 12 September 2019. But it was noted that Mrs S said shed review her options 
first and get back to HSBC to confirm what account she wanted the account to be 
downgraded to. I understand the account was then downgraded by HSBC following further 
contact from Mrs S. Therefore, I cant say that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
concerning the downgrading of the account.
Therefore, having weighed everything up and considering what I think was more likely to 
have happened, Im not persuaded that the Advance account was mis-sold. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs S, as I can see her strength of feeling on 
the matter. But I hope I have been able to explain why I cant find in her favour on this 
occasion.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman