DRN-2822932
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he acquired on hire purchase from Secure Trust Bank Plc was not
of satisfactory quality. He says he should be able to reject it. He also says he was misled
about its history.  
What happened
At the end of January 2020 Mr D entered into a 44-month hire purchase agreement with
Secure Trust. The agreement was for an eight-year-old Range Rover priced at just under
£17,000 and with a recorded mileage of nearly 90,000. Mr D was to pay just under £600 a
month.
Within a few days of taking delivery of the car, Mr D was told that it had an outstanding
manufacturers recall notice and that the front brake hoses needed to be replaced. This was
done, but the engineers noted that the car also had an engine oil leak which, they said,
needed to be repaired immediately. The car was collected on 26 February 2020 from Mr D,
repairs were carried out and Mr D collected it from the garage on 7 March 2020.
Mr D says that he was initially happy that the car was working, but that less than a week
later he was driving with his family and smelt burning; smoke was coming from the engine
and into the cabin. He had to have the car recovered to his house, from where it was
collected the following day. Mr D said he did not want to continue to drive the car.
The dealership said that there was nothing wrong with the car, as the issues that had been
identified had been repaired successfully. Mr D complained to Secure Trust, which arranged
an independent inspection carried out by ACE. That report concluded, in summary, that
there was no active oil leak but that there was staining to the engine under tray, consistent
with a historic leak. It also noted some diagnostic codes, including one connected to the
diesel particulate filter (DPF).
Mr D remained reluctant to collect the car, but did so in early August 2020, when the
dealership suggested it might begin to charge him for storage of it.  
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She took the view that the car had
not been of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr D, that he had been entitled to
reject it and that he had done so. She recommended that Secure Trust accept Mr Ds
rejection of the car, make refunds of hire payments and other costs and pay Mr D a further
£300 by way of compensation.
Secure Trust did not accept the investigators recommendations. It said that the ACE report
confirmed that repairs had been carried out successfully and that the car was of satisfactory
quality once that had been done. The further issues identified by ACE appeared to relate to
electrical faults, and there was no evidence that these were present at the point of sale.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I set out below (with necessary minor 
corrections) my provisional findings:
As the investigator noted, Secure Trust was under a duty to provide a car that was of
satisfactory quality. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person
would expect in the circumstances  including in this case the cars age and mileage.
I think it is accepted that the car was not of satisfactory quality in this case. It had an
outstanding recall notice and an oil leak. The main issue I must consider is therefore how
those matters should be remedied and whether Secure Trust should do any more.
Where an item is not of satisfactory quality, a consumer generally has the option to reject it
within 30 days of delivery or if repairs are not successful. Here, the issues with the brake
hoses and the oil leak were identified within a few days of delivery of the car. Mr D appears
to have accepted that the brake hoses were replaced without any issue. He says however
that the oil leak was not repaired  or, if it was, that was because the dealership carried out a
further repair after he had sought to reject the car.
Mr D said that he was initially happy that the car was working after he collected it on 7 March
2020. No doubt he believed a successful repair had been carried out at that point. Mr Ds
statement is not, in my view, proof that the repair had been carried out properly. It is
however evidence that he was happy at that point for the fault to be dealt with by a repair; he
had not at that point sought to reject the car.
If the repair was not successful, however, Mr D could still reject the car. I must therefore
consider whether it was successful, as the dealership and Secure Trust say it was.
The ACE report specifically addressed the issue of the oil leak and concluded that the repair
had been successful. The engineer did not report any burning smell or smoke but did
observe evidence of a previous leak. That was consistent with an undated engineers report
from AJR. I accept that Mr D did experience smoke and a burning smell after the repair had
been completed, but it seems to me that this was explained by residual oil from the leak, not
by a failure to complete the repair. I am not persuaded that further repairs were carried out
as Mr D suggests.
As far as the oil leak is concerned, therefore, I think that Mr D agreed  however reluctantly
 to a repair and that it was carried out. In the circumstances, I do not believe it would be fair
to allow him to reject the car because of the oil leak.
As I have indicated, the ACE report also identified diagnostic faults. As Secure Trust says,
however, they were not part of the initial complaint about the car and the ACE report did not
suggest they were likely to have been present at delivery. I note as well that all but one was
intermittent and the other related to DPF issues, which may well be a wear and tear issue. In
the absence of further evidence on those issues, dont believe I can safely conclude that
they mean the car was not of satisfactory quality.
Mr D also says that he was told by the dealership that the car came with a full service history
and that it had only had one owner from new (it had in fact had three). I have not however
seen any evidence to corroborate this  for example, advertisements or other printed
information about the car. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded he was told this or that,
if he was, it was a significant factor in Mr Ds decision to enter into the hire purchase
agreement.
Nevertheless, I do not believe either that carrying out repairs to the car was sufficient to
resolve Mr Ds complaint. He was put to some inconvenience while the car was being
repaired. In addition, it seems that the smoke and burning smell he reported may have been
the result of excess oil not being cleaned from the engine under tray. That caused significant
anxiety and meant that an independent inspection of the car and the repairs was needed.
That took some time to arrange  in part no doubt because of Covid-19 restrictions  but
should not have been necessary. The result was that Mr D did not have use of the car forsome four months after its initial delivery. To some extent, that was because he thought,
wrongly it seems, that the repair had been successful. But, even if Mr D was wrong to
believe that, I think his belief was genuine and rational in the circumstances.
I believe therefore that it would be reasonable for Secure Trust to refund monthly payments
for the periods that Mr D was without the car and to make a reasonable contribution towards
his out-of-pocket expenses. I also believe Secure Trust should pay him a further £300 in
recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr D has been put and the distress he has 
suffered.
Initially, both parties indicated that they were prepared to accept my provisional findings and 
to resolve the complaint in the manner I had indicated would be fair. Later, however, Secure 
Trust explained that Mr D had missed some payments while he did not have use of the car. 
It proposed therefore to offset some of the redress against missed payments. It also said 
that it would base the redress on the contractual payments due between 14 March and 5 
August 2020, which totalled a few pounds less than the (rounded) figure of £3,000 which I 
had proposed. 
Meanwhile, Mr D arranged for an engine service to be carried out. The servicing engineer 
said that there was evidence of an oil leak and expressed the view that this was down to a 
fault which had not been rectified when the car was returned to the dealership for earlier 
repairs. As a result, Mr D said that he did not want to accept my provisional decision but 
wanted instead to reject the car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has now provided further evidence about the oil leak. On the face of it, it contradicts the 
conclusions of the ACE report, which concluded that repairs had been successful. As I 
indicated in my provisional decision, that report was consistent with the findings of AJR. In 
the circumstances, I am not persuaded that I should change my view on that issue from that 
which I expressed in my provisional decision  and which was based on a fairly detailed and 
independent inspection carried out by ACE. 
My underlying conclusions have not therefore changed from those in my provisional 
decision.       
Putting things right
As I have indicated, Secure Trust proposed to apply the compensation I suggested in my 
provisional decision in part towards missing monthly payments. I referred in that provisional 
decision to a refund of monthly payments  that is, I had assumed Mr D had made them but 
had not had use of the car. In fact, he had not made all the payments and had not had use of 
the car. 
In the circumstances, it is not unreasonable of Secure Trust to want to use some of the 
compensation to bring Mr Ds account up to date. That puts Mr D in a similar position to that 
he would have been in if he had made the payments and was receiving a refund of them.  
Although Secure Trust has indicated it will accept my provisional decision (albeit having 
commented on how it should be implemented), I will make a formal award, so that Mr D can 
enforce it should he need to do so.   My final decision
My final decision is that Secure Trust Bank Plc should resolve Mr Ds complaint by paying 
him:
£3,000 to cover rental payments when he did not have use of the car, a contribution to 
his expenses and compensation for not having use of funds; and
£300 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put and the distress he 
has suffered.
For the avoidance of doubt, Secure Trust Bank Plc may, if it wishes, apply part or all of the 
first part of my award against any outstanding payments due under the hire purchase 
agreement. The second part of my award should be paid directly to Mr D.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman