DRN-3075744
The complaint
Miss K complains that Unum Ltd trading as Unum Dental handled her dental insurance claim 
unfairly.
What happened
Miss K has access to a group dental insurance policy through her employer. It is designed to 
reimburse the costs of NHS dental treatment. 
In 2020 Miss K struggled to get an appointment with her NHS dentist. She was seeking a 
specific treatment, but a number of NHS dentists were only providing limited treatments at 
the time because of Covid-19 restrictions. 
Miss K was able to obtain the treatment privately. She made a claim on the group policy 
which was accepted, and Unum reimbursed the equivalent NHS costs.
Miss K complained. She said she had gum disease and had been suffering for several 
months. She said her NHS dentist had been unable to offer the treatment shed needed 
because of Covid-19 restrictions, so shed had to seek the treatment privately and had 
expected to be reimbursed more. Miss K asked Unum to either cancel or freeze her policy 
because shed been paying for a service she could not have. 
Unum didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. It said it would always reimburse the NHS equivalent 
for any private treatment, and it was unable to cancel the policy because the insurance was 
an annual contract arranged through Miss Ks employer. 
Unum did acknowledge the availability of dentistry had been limited because of Covid-19, 
but explained it would honour any treatment that had been scheduled and then cancelled. It 
also said the policy had still allowed for accidental and emergency treatment, and it provided 
worldwide cover too. Unum said it would be reviewing the best way to ensure all of its 
customers received fair value once dental services were available again, but unhappy with 
its response Miss K brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think Unum had acted unfairly. They said it would have been 
important for Miss Ks premiums to continue being paid in order for her to make claims 
through the policy once restrictions had eased, and in case shed needed to utilise the other 
provisions available through it too. Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to direct an insurer 
to refund premiums just because a claim had not been made, and Unum would be 
considering a rebate once dental services had returned to normal.
Miss K did not agree with our investigators findings and asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman, so the matter is now for me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not be upholding Miss Ks complaint for the following reasons:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to 
handle claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of the group policy explain that members can claim 
reimbursement for eligible NHS dental treatment. In the event of a member receiving 
private treatment the terms explain that a reimbursement of the NHS equivalent 
charge will be made. That is what Unum did when Miss K claimed for the private 
treatment she had received, so I am satisfied it settled her claim in line with the terms 
of the policy and I dont think I can fairly direct it to increase that reimbursement. 
Miss K says her premiums should have been cancelled or frozen because she was 
unable to access the service she was paying for. Its well known that the Covid-19 
pandemic widely affected dentistry and I empathise with the difficulties Miss K 
experienced when trying to make an appointment. The terms of the group policy 
explain that members are not permitted to change their membership during the policy 
term unless they leave the employer, or theres a specific change in their 
circumstances. As far as I am aware, Miss K did not leave her employer or have one 
of the specific change in circumstances cited in the policy, so again, I am satisfied 
that Unum gave Miss K correct information when explaining why it was unable to 
accommodate her request. 
I have thought about whether it would have been fair and reasonable for Unum to 
cancel or amend Miss Ks policy outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms, 
but I dont think I can reach that conclusion. Ill explain why.
Miss K has told this service that she used the policy to help her manage the regular 
costs of her gum related treatment. I have no reason to doubt that, but the policy 
provided other benefits outside of the specific cover that Miss K was seeking at the 
time. For example, cover for accidental and emergency dental treatment. I appreciate 
Miss K did not make an accidental or emergency claim, but that benefit would have 
still been available to her should she have needed to use it. And Miss K was still 
entitled to receive a contribution towards private treatment as well.
The group policy would have continued once the Covid-19 restrictions were eased 
and/or lifted too. So Miss Ks continued premiums would have been needed to 
facilitate any ongoing cover. And as Unum had explained it would be honoring claims 
for any eligible treatment which had been scheduled but cancelled because of Covid-
19, premiums for that backdated period of cover would have been needed to have 
been paid too. Again, I appreciate Miss K did not make such a backdated claim, but I 
dont think it would be fair of me to direct Unum to refund premiums because no 
claim had been made. Miss K still had the benefit of cover during the remainder of 
the policy year should she have wanted to use it.
In its final response letter Unum said that it was making a refund promise and 
explained how it would ensure that consumers like Miss K would be treated fairly as 
a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think that was reasonable, as Unum said it would 
return any exceptional profits back to its customers.  
Since referring her complaint to this service, Miss Ks told us that Unum provided her 
with a rebate in the form of a voucher. Based on what Miss K has said it appears that 
she is unhappy with the rebate, but I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
comment on this matter any further. Thats because at the point Miss K complained 
Unum had not issued a rebate, so it has not yet had the opportunity to consider any complaint that Miss K may have about it. If Miss K remains unhappy with the rebate 
she will need to raise the matter with Unum in the first instance. 
It is clear that Miss K feels very strongly about what has happened and I realise shell likely 
be further disappointed by my findings. For the reasons given above I will not be upholding 
her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint against Unum Ltd trading as 
Unum Dental.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman