DRN-1888907
The complaint
Mr B complains about Starling Bank Limiteds decision to record a fraud marker against his 
name. Mr B would like the fraud marker removed.
What happened
Mr B held an account with Starling. On occasion, he used his Starling account to transfer 
funds to a bitcoin exchange. Mr B said he was working abroad at the time, and bitcoin was 
the most efficient way to convert his salary currency back to pounds.
In February 2019, Starling received a report from another bank to inform them that Mr B had 
been the recipient of fraudulent funds. Starling carried out an investigation and decided to 
end their relationship with Mr B. The account was closed in April 2019 and Starling 
registered a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against Mr B.
In December 2019, Mr B applied for another bank account and it immediately closed. Mr B 
investigated the reason for this and learned about the CIFAS marker  so he complained to 
Starling. Starling responded to Mr Bs complaint and explained they wouldnt be removing 
the CIFAS marker.
Starling held Mr B accountable for the misuse of his account  they said he was using a 
personal account for business purposes. And they thought he had moved fraudulent funds 
through the account. Mr B strongly denied doing anything wrong. Starling had asked him 
about three payments from an individual with the reference holiday. Mr B said the payments 
in question were linked to a bitcoin trade with an individual (different from the sender of the 
funds) he had done a lot of business with before and trusted. Mr B explained that one of the 
transactions was made twice  and instead of refunding the individual who sent the money 
to Mr Bs account, the bitcoin trader asked to exchange the money for bitcoins instead. 
Starling didnt agree that Mr B carried out sufficient checks to know where the money had 
come from and didnt understand why the money was coming from one individual, and the 
bitcoin trade was being carried out by another individual.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary he said Mr B should have been 
aware to carry out due diligence checks on the money he was receiving as part of the bitcoin 
trade, but he didnt. He also agreed Mr B had contributed to the laundering of money by 
trading the fraudulent money received into his account into bitcoins. So, he thought the 
CIFAS marker was fair.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he said he did carry out due diligence checks but the bitcoin 
buyer he was trading with was somebody hed done a lot of business with for a number of 
years and trusted him. He explained he wasnt alerted by the use of the reference holiday 
as he himself was on holiday at the time of receiving the money. Mr B also explained that as 
not all banks favour the trading of bitcoins, he didnt want the reference to alarm Starling that 
he was trading.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr B has made a number of quite detailed submissions and provided helpful 
screenshots. Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each 
and every point that Mr B has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his 
complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I 
consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that 
Mr B and Starling have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. As part of this complaint, we have received evidence from Starling and other 
banks. Some of the information which has been provided is information that we considered 
should be kept confidential.
Was the fraud marker applied fairly?
Ive looked at whether it was fair of Starling to apply the marker, based on the evidence and 
what the rules say about applying such markers. 
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently (a misuse of facility 
marker). This type of marker will stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult 
for a customer to take out new financial products as Mr B has encountered. In order to file 
such a marker, Starling arent required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty 
of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
 The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 

What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Mr Bs account or fraudulent funds have entered Mr Bs 
account and were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong 
evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment 
and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered 
against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity. 
Ive thought about whether Starling have provided evidence that fraudulent funds entered Mr 
Bs account and he knew they were, or might be, illegitimate payments. And I think they 
have, Ill explain why below:
- Im satisfied the evidence Starling provided regarding the payments credited into 
Mr Bs account shows they were fraudulent. 
- Im concerned and surprised at the use of reference holiday if the payments were 
part of a bitcoin trade as Mr B has suggested. I appreciate Mr B says he was on 
holiday at the time so didnt find the reference unusual, but I havent seen any 
evidence of that  or that Mr B made it known to anybody involved that he was on 
holiday. Mr B also said the individual who made the payments wasnt the bitcoin trader so in particular, I struggle to understand why this individual making the 
payments would have known Mr B was on holiday at the time. And as the money 
didnt form part of Mr Bs holiday costs, I dont find the explanation plausible.
- I recognise Mr B says he didnt want the reference to alert Starling to the fact he was 
trading bitcoins. I can understand Mr Bs point here. But, as Ive explained, I havent 
seen any plausible reason to explain the use of the reference holiday so I cant 
agree this shouldnt have raised concerns.
- I havent seen any evidence to show Mr B questioned why he was receiving money 
from another individual to the one he was conducting trades with.
- While I appreciate Mr Bs position of trust with the bitcoin trader, I cant reasonably 
uphold his complaint on this point alone. Ultimately, Mr B has a duty of care to 
ensure he knows who he is trading with  and while he may have trusted the 
individual he was trading with, he didnt have enough information to satisfy himself of 
the individual making the payments and what that individual thought the payments 
were for.
- The individual transferred two payments of the same amount into Mr Bs account  
and the bitcoin trader (who Mr B says he trusted) asked Mr B to use the money and 
trade further bitcoins. Im concerned at why Mr B didnt question this and while I 
appreciate he says he didnt have the bank details of the sender of the funds; that 
doesnt satisfy me of the reasons of why he continued to move the money on without 
asking any further questions.
- Im satisfied Mr B did make use of the money and did move the money on by 
transferring the funds into bitcoin.
In summary for the reasons Ive explained above I think Mr B was complicit in receiving the 
fraudulent payments. It follows that Starling have met the requirements to load a CIFAS 
marker and I wont be asking the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman