DRN-3381134
The complaint 
Mr H complains as a director of G (a limited company) that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) 
didnt do more to protect his company when he was the victim of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too 
much detail here. In early 2020, G was approached by scammers pretending to be two 
companies manufacturing PPE (personal protective equipment) which G was looking to 
obtain and supply in the UK.
In total Mr H, on behalf of G, made the following payments to the scammers from Gs 
electronic money account with Wise:
Date ordered Source amount
29 April 2020 £4,030.45
15 May 2020 £26,872.84
16 May 2020 £22,426.70
16 May 2020 £18,946.12
18 May 2020 £31,330.51
Mr H had concerns about the payments when the scammers stopped replying to him about 
the equipment. He reported the matter to the police in each country he understood the 
scammers to be in and raised a scam claim with Wise on 29 May 2020. 
Wise contacted the beneficiaries banks on 26 June 2020 to try and recall the funds. In 
August 2020, Wise responded and said it had tried to retrieve the funds but both the 
international banks to which payments had been sent had rejected the requests. So, it was 
unable to help him any further. Mr H made a complaint, and Wise responded further in 
February 2021 to explain that the payments had been processed in line with Gs instructions, 
so it had fulfilled its obligations. It felt the onus was on G to ensure the payments were being 
made to the intended recipients.
Mr H was unhappy with Wises response. He felt it shouldve done more to protect him from 
the scam by identifying it before the payments were made. He also felt it shouldve done 
more to retrieve the payments after he reported the scam.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and didnt uphold the complaint. I said:
Wise is an electronic money institute and so wasnt subject to the same expectations 
set out in guidance and regulation as a current account or bank would be when it 
comes to fraud prevention. And, as the account holder in this case was a limited 
company, any regulation or best practice setting out Wises obligations to individuals 
didnt apply either. But, I was satisfied that Wise did have a duty of care to treat its 
customers fairly under PRIN 2.1 as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook. And I could see its own terms and conditions reflected that it would take 
action if it suspected, amongst other financial crimes, fraudulent activity. So I felt it 
ought to have had some systems in place to monitor its accounts and any additional 
checks it carried out into suspicious transactions should be proportionate to its 
relationships with its customers.
Taking the above into account, I felt Wise mightve been negligent and liable for 
reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, it failed to act on 
information which ought reasonably alert a prudent authorised payment institution to 
potential fraud or financial crime by, or against its customer. But, overall, I didnt think 
Wise had failed in its obligations to G in this case.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside Wises own terms and 
conditions, indicate that Wise should execute and authorise payment instructions 
without undue delay. And as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for 
authorised payments is on the payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a 
scam. Based on the way the account had historically been used, it seemed to me it 
was solely for the purpose of G sending large payments to international accounts 
during the course of operating its business. And although payments to the scammer 
were larger than payments generally had been, I didnt think it was unreasonable that 
a business might send larger payments from time to time. Overall I thought the 
payments wouldve appeared to have been in line with Gs general use of the 
account so I didnt think Wise ought to have intervened or carried out further checks.
As Mr H had provided considerable detail around the checks hed carried out before 
making the payments he did, I didnt think it was likely that even if Wise were 
required to provide G with any warnings about the way scams tend to be perpetrated, 
this wouldve prevented the payment. Especially as the situation hed described 
wasnt in line with a typical scam. So I thought it was unlikely Mr H wouldve thought 
any warning wouldve applied to his situation as the circumstances described 
wouldve been different.
I wouldve expected Wise to make reasonable attempts to try and recover Gs money 
when it was made aware of the scam. It doesnt provide a dedicated fraud team to its 
customers and due to the volume of enquiries it received around the time Mr H 
reported the scam it was unable to look into things until around a month later. But, 
when Wise did contact the beneficiary banks, in all but one case they didnt respond. 
I didnt think it likely this wouldve been different had they been contacted sooner as 
they clearly werent willing to cooperate on this occasion. In the case of one payment 
the beneficiarys bank responded and said no funds remained. In my experience, 
fraudulent funds tend to be moved quickly once received. So overall I didnt think it 
likely the funds couldve been recovered had Wise acted sooner than it did. 
Mr H felt he should receive compensation from Wise for the delays and for the 
distress hed suffered as a result of the scam. He also said he felt like he had to do 
all the work and Wise didnt help him. But I didnt feel any compensation was due in 
this case. The eligible complainant here was G, a limited company so although I 
could consider the inconvenience the company had suffered, a company couldnt 
experience personal distress. Overall, I felt Wise had acted in line with what Id 
expect and much of the inconvenience had been caused by the scam itself, not by Wise.
Wise didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr H did respond and requested additional 
time to provide further information. This was given to him, but no further information was 
received by the deadline given. Because of this, Ive proceeded to issue my final decision 
based on the evidence available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional information for me to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings in my provisional decision, outlined above.
As I dont think Wise has missed an opportunity to prevent Gs loss, I dont think it needs to 
pay any compensation in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman