DRN-3827407
The complaint
Miss B complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She also complains about 
administrative issues relating to the management and charges of her loan account.
What happened
Miss B was approved for a guarantor loan by 1Plus1 Loans in March 2017. The capital 
amount of the loan was £2,750 with a 60-month term. The repayments came to effectively 
£99 per month. Miss B complains this loan was irresponsibly lent.  She says 1Plus1 Loans 
did not carry out reasonable and proportionate checks prior to the loan being approved. Miss 
B says had 1Plus1 Loans done this, it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her. 
Miss B says she has now paid off the loan in full.
Our investigator did not recommend Miss Bs complaint be upheld. In summary he said:
1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. This 
included checking Miss Bs credit file, verifying her income through a third party 
online tool, and completing an affordability assessment;
As these checks were proportionate and they demonstrated that Miss B could afford 
the loan; that 1Plus1 Loans acted fairly in approving the loan; and
1Plus1 Loans had handled Miss Bs administration concerns fairly.
Miss B disagreed with the outcome. She maintained that 1Plus1 Loans had not completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. Miss B pointed to the fact that as part of the complaint 
process 1Plus1 Loans had completed an Open Banking search; and that the statements it 
produced demonstrated that the loan was unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint. 
Our investigator set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible lending to both 
parties already. As such I wont repeat them here, but for clarity Ive considered if 1Plus1 
Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Miss B. Ive then 
considered if it made a fair decision to lend. Ive also considered if it acted unfairly in any 
other way in relation to the administration and handling of Miss Bs account.
As set out above this loan was taken out in March 2017 for a capital amount of £2,750. 
1Plus1 Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
loan. This included completing an income and expenditure assessment with Miss B and 
using information such as searching her credit file and using an online tool to verify her 
income and outgoings.
The assessment which 1Plus1 Loans completed demonstrated that Miss Bs income was 
around £1,300 per month. The application stated that she was living with her parents making 
nominal contribution and had a monthly outgoing of around £440. The credit file search 
showed that Miss B did have existing forms of credit but her overall level of existing debt was 
very low. The search did show a historic default but this was registered some time prior to 
the loan being approved. The credit file showed that in relation to her existing credit 
commitments, Miss B was maintaining her accounts well. 1Plus1 Loans used this 
information, as well as that provided in the application with an additional £200 spending 
buffer to decide if the loan was affordable. 1Plus1 Loans says taking all of this information 
into account the loan was affordable; and information gathered as part of its process did not 
warrant further checks.
Ive considered 1Plus1 Loans argument in relation to proportionality of the checks and I 
agree with it in this instance. As Miss B is aware the level of checks required needs to be 
proportionate to the amount of credit being provided. In this instance the level of credit was 
relatively low. 1Plus1 Loans has demonstrated that it completed a reasonable level of 
checks before providing the loan. This included gathering information about Miss Bs credit 
and non-credit commitments, and using this information to inform its affordability 
assessment. Whilst there was a negative marker, this was historic and the existing credit 
commitments Miss B had were maintained well. 
Miss B says that at the time of the loan she was experiencing financial difficulties and had 
taken out payday loans. I should point out that  Plus1 Loans is entitled to rely on the 
information it received and saw; and whilst Ive no reason to doubt what Miss B says about 
her finances at the time; Im satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans took into account the information it 
received at the point of the application. Ive not seen any information which demonstrates 
that it was made aware of further commitments (outside of those discussed in the 
affordability assessment) or that it was unreasonable for 1Plus1 Loans to rely on the 
information it saw. 
So, as Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans was able to get a good understanding into Miss Bs 
finances and these did not demonstrate that further information was needed; it follows that 
Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
As Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on 
to consider if it made a fair decision to lend, based on the information it had at the time. 
I appreciate Miss B has said that further information  such as the Open Banking  shows 
her income mayve been lower than that which was used by 1Plus1 Loans. And that she 
mayve had more existing credit than was shown. However, as noted, I need to consider 
whether 1Plus1 Loans made a fair decision based on the information it had at the time. 
As noted above; the checks 1Plus1 Loans completed demonstrated that Miss B had low 
existing credit commitments (which she was maintaining well); and had minimal non-credit 
outgoings. The affordability assessment demonstrated that Miss B would have a sufficient 
disposable income to meet the repayments. This also included 1Plus1 Loans adding a 
further £200 deduction as a buffer. Taking all of this into account; Im satisfied that the 
decision it made, based on the information it had at the time, was fair.
So it follows Im not persuaded 1Plus1 Loans acted unfairly when approving this loan. 
Finally, Miss B has also raised concerns over the way 1Plus1 Loans handled her account. She says that it acted unfairly in relation to some administration fees, as well as when she 
asked for forbearance help. Having reviewed all of the information Im satisfied that 1Plus1 
Loans has acted fairly in relation to these elements of Miss Bs complaint. Im satisfied the 
relevant charges we explained to her before the loan was approved; and that 1Plus1 Loans 
has applied them in line with the loan agreement. 
In terms of the forbearance issues, whilst Miss B disputes this, I cant see evidence that 
1Plus1 Loans was made aware of any financial difficulties. It therefore follows that I do not 
think it acted unreasonably in relation to this aspect of her complaint either. 
I appreciate this outcome will come as a disappointment to Miss B, but I can assure her I 
have carefully considered all of the information she has provided to our service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman