DRN-1943454
 
The complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Sunny provided to Mr G in March 2016. The 
loan was for £1,000 to be repaid in weekly instalments over a year. The highest expected 
monthly repayment was £159.90. Mr G defaulted on his loan. He accepted and paid a partial 
settlement offer and the remaining balance was written off. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties this loan caused Mr G. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Sunny asked Mr G for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr G said his monthly income was £3,033 and his monthly expenditure was £825. I 
cant see anything untoward in Sunnys credit checks that should have prompted further 
checks. 
Given the loan amount and its duration, I think Sunny should have better checks of Mr Gs 
finances, and verified what hed told it, to ensure that he could sustainably repay the loan. 
But, from the information Mr G has provided, I cant see that better checks would have found 
that the loan was unsustainable for Mr G.
So from what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances at the time and his history with 
Sunny, I think the loan looked affordable and I cant say Sunny was wrong to have approved 
it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman