DRN-2882609
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made for 
flood damage under his buildings insurance policy. Mr Os daughter is representing him in 
his complaint. 
What happened
Mr O bought a building insurance policy with Aviva. In February 2020 he made a claim for 
flood damage to his home where he lives with Mrs O following a storm. They had to move 
into alternative accommodation while works were carried out.
Aviva settled the claim by paying a cash settlement for drying out and redecoration. The 
settlement sum for these repairs came to £4,629.19. It said due to the construction of the 
property, it was likely that further water damage could occur. But Aviva said it wouldnt carry 
out preventative works as this would result in betterment for Mr O. Aviva said this wasnt 
covered under the policy.
Mrs O contacted us. She said the settlement wasnt enough to repair the property to its pre 
incident condition in preventing future water ingress. She said water has come in again due 
to heavy rainfall. Ms O says her father paid in the region of £16,000 to repair the property 
which she feels Aviva should have covered under his policy. 
Aviva didnt agree. 
Our investigator recommended upholding Mr Os complaint. He was mindful of the fact that 
Mr Os property was 200 years old and had an extension built around 45 years before, which 
would have been built to meet the building regulations at the time. The building seemed to 
be able to have been structurally sound to withstand water ingress before February 2020. 
And he explained that the role of Aviva when dealing with a claim is to carry out effective and 
long lasting repairs. He didnt believe the drying out and redecorating of the building was 
enough. 
So the investigator recommended Aviva carry out repairs to the parts of the building that 
were damaged by flood  and to ensure these repairs were effective and long lasting in 
preventing future water ingress. He said the property without effective repairs is open to 
further flood damage, so Aviva hasnt put Mr O back in the position he was before the 
damage. He therefore didnt agree that by carrying out effective repairs, Aviva was putting 
Mr O in a position of betterment. 
The investigator recommended for Aviva to either:
Arrange for suitable repairs to be carried out to prevent future flood damage  or;
If the repairs have been carried out, for Aviva to meet the costs it is liable for in 
relation to flood damage and reimburse Mr O with interest at 8%.
Mr Os daughter hasnt commented on the investigators findings. 
Aviva didnt agree. It provided comments from the surveyor, which the investigator had 
previously considered. Aviva says there was no external damage caused by flood to the 
property, only internal damage. Aviva doesnt accept it should carry out any betterment 
works as the outside of the property wasnt damaged. It says the policy provides cover for 
one off insurable events. 
So Aviva would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy with Aviva provides cover for insured perils, such as storm or flood. 
The surveyor who visited the property said there was no damp proof membrane below the 
floor and a lack of any internal tanking to prevent water from entering the property through 
the walls which are of solid stone construction. The surveyor wrote:
The external ground levels are too high. In some cases higher than the internal floor, 
and mostly within 150mm of the internal floor levels, especially on the rear of the 
property. This will cause bridging of any DPC (damp proof course) , leading to water 
ingressing internally. The external ground levels must be at least 150mm below the 
internal floor levels to comply with Building Regulations.
The surveyor provided comments on other areas of the property: the roof and guttering. 
However this isnt relevant as the area of damage is on the ground floor as a result of flood 
water. He concluded that all of the areas of concern highlighted would allow water to enter 
the property in future and had not been caused by the storm, but due to age and wear and 
tear. 
And so the surveyor said the drying out and redecorating repairs brought the property to its 
pre loss condition before the flood. 
The surveyor concluded:
Any further damage may be being caused by the external defects noted above, 
which would be regarded as betterment on the policy and were not caused by the 
initial storm, but are due to lack of maintenance, poor construction, and general wear 
and tear, none of which are covered by the policy.
Aviva paid a cash settlement to cover the costs to dry out Mr and Mrs Os property and for 
redecoration to the ground floor. 
I agree that Avivas policy doesnt provide for betterment. However, we apply a fair and 
reasonable approach when looking at complaints and what the policy says. The principle of 
insurance indemnity is to provide effective and long lasting repairs. Occasionally this means 
repairs will involve repairing or replacing more than what was originally damaged. We think 
this is the most practical approach to prevent the same damage occurring again.
Aviva accepted the claim. So I dont think its fair to rely on its wear and tear exclusion 
under the policy to not pay for effective and long lasting repairs for the same claim. Mr O hasnt made a claim for flood damage before  and there isnt anything to suggest 
otherwise to show that the property  or the extension  wasnt built to confirm with building 
regulations at the time. 
I think theres no doubt that without effective repairs to Mr Os property, a future ingress of 
water would be inevitable. And Ms O has confirmed that this did happen. I appreciate that 
Aviva is of the view that any preventative repair work is an upgrade. But I dont think it is. 
The surveyor confirmed that the drying out and redecorating work wouldnt prevent further 
issues when he replied to Ms Os concerns on 20 April 2020. He wrote:
We would then offer a cash settlement for the repair works to the decorating only, as 
we cannot guarantee that the above works will be carried out to prevent further 
issues. We would not carry out works to make the property flood proof, as this would 
involve improving the property or betterment, which is excluded on all insurance 
policies.
So taking everything into account, I think a fair outcome is for Aviva to meet the costs to 
provide effective and long lasting repairs under Mr Os flood damage claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
 Arrange for suitable repairs to be carried out to Mr Os home to prevent future flood 
damage  or;
 If the repairs have been carried out, for Aviva to meet the costs it is liable for in 
relation to flood damage and reimburse Mr O.
Aviva should pay interest on the reimbursement at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from 
the date Mr O paid to the date of reimbursement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman