DRN-2384809
The complaint
Mrs B complained that Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd didnt pay all of her claim under 
her car insurance policy when her car was stolen. 
Mrs B is the policyholder and is represented in this complaint by her husband. But, for ease, 
Ill refer to Mrs B throughout.
What happened
Mrs Bs car was stolen in December 2019 whilst parked in the road outside her house. She 
made a claim to Trinity Lane for the agreed valuation of the car. Trinity Lane investigated 
and declined the claim because it said the car was parked on the road rather than in Mrs Bs 
driveway. It said it wouldnt have given Mrs B an agreed value policy if it knew her car was 
going to be kept in the road at night. It said a suitable policy would have come with an 
increased premium of about £55%. It agreed to pay the claim subject to the same 
proportionate deduction from the agreed value and less the excess. Mrs B didnt think that 
was fair and complained. She noted the policy only asked where the car was normally 
parked at night and she provided evidence to support the fact the car was normally parked 
on the driveway. Trinity Lane maintained its position and Mrs B brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think Trinity Lane had acted fairly. He thought Mrs B had provided 
substantial evidence to suggest the car would normally be parked on the drive at night. So, 
he thought Trinity Lane should pay the full agreed valuation of the car.
Trinity Lane didnt respond to the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand why Trinity Lane turned down Mrs Bs claim, I dont think it has 
sufficient evidence to support its position.
The Statement of Fact document Mrs B completed when renewing her policy asked, 
Where is the vehicle normally kept at night and Mrs B replied Parked On Drive. The 
agreed value request form has a box that says, Overnight Parking and underneath Mrs B 
has said Parked on Drive. I havent seen any further information to explain what is meant 
by normally but I think it would be fair and reasonable to regard it as meaning more often 
than not. So, on that basis, Ive looked at the evidence to determine whether the car was 
normally parked on the driveway overnight.
Trinity Lane initially thought it was highly unlikely a car would fit on the area outside the front 
of Mrs Bs property. It also found two Google street view photographs which both showed 
the car parked on the roadside. It thought it highly likely the car was parked on the road 
overnight on a regular basis, as it was on the night of the theft. 
Mrs B explained why the car was parked on the road at the time of the theft and I havent 
seen any evidence of Trinity Lane questioning that explanation. Mrs B has also provided 
photographs of the car parked on the driveway outside her house during the day and at 
night. She said the car leaked oil and, if necessary, she could provide a photograph of the oil 
leak on the driveway as further evidence of the car being parked there. She also produced a 
witness statement signed by thirteen of her neighbours which said the car was always or 
normally parked on the drive. And she pointed out that the two Google photographs provided 
by Trinity Lane were taken during the day and not at night. 
On balance, I think the evidence provided by Mrs B is stronger. Shes shown its possible to 
park the car on the driveway. Shes provided photographic evidence to support the fact its 
parked there during the day and at night. And her neighbours and other residents in the 
street have signed a petition to say the car is always or normally parked there. For its part, 
Trinity Lane has relied on two street view photographs that were taken during the day and 
before the agreed valuation policy was confirmed. I can understand why Trinity Lane had 
doubts about where the car was parked at night but I dont think the evidence supports its 
contention that it wasnt normally parked on the driveway.      
So, I dont think Trinity Lane has handled the claim fairly.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Trinity Lane to settle Mrs Bs claim at the agreed valuation, 
less the excess. And it should pay 8% simple interest for the period Mrs B has been without 
payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Trinity Lane Insurance Company 
Ltd to pay Mrs B a total of £16,500 to settle this claim, minus the excess of £200. It should 
add interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple from the date of theft to the date it makes 
payment1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Trinity Lane Insurance Company Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.