DRN-3605987
The complaint
The estate of Ms S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited is unable to 
trace a policy held by Ms S and isnt prepared to pay the policys claim value since she sadly 
died in 2020. 
The estate is represented by Mr S and is also represented by his solicitor who Ill refer to as 
X. 
Mr S has requested Prudential to pay the policy benefits and to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Ms S sadly died in May 2020. Mr S says Ms S told him she held a whole of life policy with 
Prudential which would pay out on her death. Mr S says he tried to claim on the policy, but 
Prudential informed him they couldnt find the policy.   
X complained about this and Prudential looked into the complaint. In short it said, there was 
no record of the policy still being in force after 1970 and it wasnt legally required to hold 
records of any policy which lapsed or was claimed prior to 1970. It said, if Mr S could provide 
proof of payments having been made after 1970 it would carry out a further investigation. 
X brought the complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, he said Prudential hasnt acted unfairly because he also hadnt seen 
anything to suggest the policy was in force after 1970. He said it was more likely than not 
that the policy lapsed or was paid out. 
X didnt agree, it said Mr S was repeatedly told by Ms S that the policy had value. It also said 
Prudential were provided with the original policy document and this would have been 
surrendered had the policy been encashed. 
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint it has been referred to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to emphasise, I have to assess this complaint on the evidence thats been 
made available to me by each side and, where the evidence is conflicting or lacking, I decide 
whats more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Also, its not my role to 
act as advocate for Mr S to trace a policy once held by Ms S from which he believes a 
benefit is still due. 
Not surprisingly Prudential has been unable to provide much information about the policy. X 
has said Ms S held the original paperwork, but I dont think thats sufficient in itself. Just 
because it remained in Ms Ss possession until she died doesnt mean a claim under the 
policy hadnt previously been made. If Mr S cant provide anything to suggest Ms S 
continued to pay into the policy the most likely explanation for this is that a claim has already 
been met under the policy.
Given the lack of evidence provided by either side, I must decide that Mr Ss version of 
events is the more likely on balance of probability for the complaint to be upheld. 
I do empathise with Mr Ss position; he needs to show on balance that a payment hasnt 
been made under this policy. But, all things considered, given the policy was taken out more 
than 50 years ago and no documentation now exists which indicates Ms Ss policy was still 
in force I think its more likely than not it had lapsed or was paid out before 1970. 
I accept, I have seen one document which does confirm a policy was taken out for Ms S but 
this in itself isnt evidence that the policy is still active or that it hasnt previously paid out. 
Prudential has said it searched internal records on more than one occasion, it also asked for 
evidence that payments continued to be made into the policy, but it wasnt provided with 
anything to consider further. 
The onus does lie with Mr S to prove his case on the balance of probabilities and I dont 
think he has provided sufficient evidence to show a policy held by Ms S remained in force 
and a claim payment is still outstanding on it.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman