DRN-2719908
The complaint
Mr P has complained that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TransUnion for 
short) recorded his address data incorrectly.
What happened
In August 2020, an incorrect address was added to Mr Ps TransUnion credit file.
In November 2020, Mr P complained to TransUnion. They said theyd fixed it, but it actually 
took them several further months to correct all the data involved.
TransUnion say they wouldve got the incorrect information from one of the companies Mr P 
has accounts with, but Mr P spoke to those companies and says they had no record of 
holding or giving the incorrect data. 
Mr P explained this issue had taken up quite a bit of his time trying to sort out, and it had 
caused him a fair amount of stress  not least as he had to be vetted in his career and so it 
was important for him that his credit file was correct.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They proposed 
that TransUnion should pay Mr P £200 compensation.
TransUnion didnt agree. They said they just reported the information they were given by the 
data suppliers. They asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
TransUnion havent been able to evidence where the incorrect data came from, so I have 
limited evidence to go on. They say this was the fault of another business who supplied this 
information. But they havent been able to substantiate that, and Mr P says the other 
business had no record of holding or giving over the incorrect data.
In any case, I have taken into account that TransUnion were generally reliant on information 
their data suppliers gave them. But even if I assume that the incorrect data came solely from 
a supplier, and not from any error on TransUnions part, TransUnion were still responsible 
for taking reasonable steps to ensure they displayed correct information. And they had to act 
promptly to investigate and fix anything that might be wrong.
Here, TransUnion were reporting Mr Ps data incorrectly and it took them some months to 
correct it, even after they were informed. And they told Mr P theyd sorted it all out when they 
actually hadnt, which only added to his trouble and upset.
I understand this meant that Mr P spent quite some time trying to sort everything out, 
including contacting the other businesses involved to check whether theyd added the data 
and to make sure their data was now correct. I also understand this has caused him undue 
stress  not least in view of his work situation.
In the circumstances of this case, I agree with our investigator that TransUnion should 
compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience they caused.
Lastly, Mr P says that TransUnion have now added a middle initial to the name on his credit 
file  but he explained he doesnt have a middle name, so he says this is incorrect. This is a 
new issue, which TransUnion havent yet a chance to investigate themselves, and so Im not 
able to deal with that in this decision. But I will put TransUnion on notice here that Mr P has 
said his name data is now incorrect. Mr P should also speak to TransUnion about this, and if 
he has any difficulties getting that sorted then he can always get back in touch with us to 
raise this as a separate complaint  he has our investigators direct contact details.
Putting things right
I direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to pay Mr P £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about his incorrect address data, 
and I direct TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman