DRN-2233511
The complaint
Mr L complains that Arval UK Limited unfairly charged, at the end of a hire contract, for 
damage to a car. He also says it mismanaged the setting up of a payment plan for these 
charges.
What happened
In February 2016, Mr L took possession of a new car via a hire agreement with Arval. In 
March 2020, Mr L handed the car back and it was inspected as per the hire agreements 
terms and conditions. However, although a report as to the cars condition was prepared 
which was to be signed by Mr L to say he agreed with its contents he wasnt given this 
opportunity. Mr L also says the inspector didnt say much about the cars condition when he 
was inspecting it.
Arval then invoiced Mr L around £940 for damage which, it said, was outside fair wear and 
tear and £420 for excess mileage. There was also a further payment required of around £55 
for a pro-rata rental payment.
Mr L complained to Arval about the amount of the charges applied and it agreed to reduce 
the damage costs by £205.
Mr L then contacted Arval and there was a discussion about payment of the outstanding end 
of contract charges. In April 2020 Mr L emailed Arval and asked if a payment plan could be 
arranged. Arval says it asked its Collections Team to contact Mr L to set up a suitable 
payment plan. Arval says that, unfortunately, due to the timing of the request to make a 
payment plan, and the date the invoices were due, the full outstanding amounts were by 
taken by direct debit from Mr Ls bank account.
The Collections Team contacted Mr L after the payments had been taken and he explained 
about the financial stress and worry this had put him under. However, there was then no 
further contact between Arval and Mr L for some 18 days. Mr L then raised his complaint 
again and asked Arval to address it.
Arval told Mr L to contact his bank and make an indemnity claim and, after he did this, the 
money was returned.
A payment plan was agreed and set up in June 2020 and Mr L was asked to set up a 
standing order for the payments. For an unknown reason when the first payment was due it 
wasnt deducted from his account.
Mr L was unhappy at how Arval had dealt with his complaints about the charges for the 
damage to the car, and the setting up of his payment plan. He complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended a partial uphold of his complaint.
Our investigator said, looking through the inspection report, she was satisfied that the 
damage that had been charged all fell outside what would be considered fair wear and tear, 
and that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines had been 
appropriately applied. Although she acknowledged Mr L hadnt signed the report, as was 
required by the hire agreements terms and conditions for when the car is handed back, she 
didnt think this made the charges unfair. Mr L had been responsible for the condition of the 
car and the damage had all been documented on the day it had been handed back. 
Our investigator said that although, Arval was entitled to take the payments for the end of 
contract charges, (it hadnt required Mr Ls permission to do so), she didnt think that Arval 
had done enough once it was aware of Mr Ls financial situation. Arval was aware that Mr L 
couldnt pay the whole amount that was due but hadnt made contact until after the direct 
debits had been taken. She accepted that this would have caused Mr L distress and 
inconvenience and said that these payments should have been put on hold.
Our investigator said that Mr L had to claim the money back via his bank, and then wait for a 
further two months before the payment plan was set up. She said she didnt think Arval had 
treated Mr L sympathetically and said that it should pay Mr L £100 as compensation for the 
trouble and upset it had caused. She also said that Arval should remove any adverse 
information about this agreement from Mr Ls credit file if applicable.
Arval agreed with our investigators recommendation, but Mr L disagreed. He said that he 
felt strongly that the inspection process hadnt been followed correctly as he hadnt signed 
the condition report. Mr L said it was unfair that he wasnt given the opportunity to repair the 
car first at a cheaper rate. He also said that Arval had taken money from his account without 
his consent which had been unfair and caused him stress and worry.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking firstly at Mr Ls complaint over the end of contract charges, Ive seen that he hasnt 
disputed there was damage to the car when he handed it back, but he says it was unfair that 
the process wasnt followed correctly.
Under the terms and conditions of the hire agreement it says that the hirer, (Mr L), will make 
the car available for collection, and that an agent for Arval will complete an initial report on 
the mechanical and bodywork condition of the car. The hirer will sign the report upon 
agreement of its contents. Arval will then invoice for the cost of the repairs whether they are 
carried out or not.
Ive seen that a condition report was prepared, together with photographs of the damage that 
was found. Arval says that, when applying the charges, the BVRAL guidelines were applied. 
These guidelines are accepted as an industry standard in determining whether any damage 
found, when a car is returned at the end of a credit agreement, amounts to fair wear and tear 
or not. So, I think its reasonable to say that Arvals approach to assessing the condition of 
the car was fair. However, Mr L says that the inspector didnt raised the level of damage 
found, nor did Mr L sign the report to show he agreed with their findings.
I agree that this was unfair, but I disagree that this means Arval isnt entitled to claim for the 
damage that was found on the car. Arval has reduced the amount of the outstanding 
charges where the photos of the recorded damage were unclear, but the remaining items 
are clearly recorded in the report and corroborated by photos. Ive also seen that the 
inspection was carried out at the point the car was collected. So, I cant reasonably say that 
the damage Mr L was invoiced for hadnt occurred while the car was in his possession.Under the agreement Mr L is responsible for the condition of the car and I think that Arval 
was entitled to invoice for him the damage found. Mr L, however, says it was unfair not to be 
given the opportunity to repair the car himself. But there is no opportunity provided to the 
hirer, in the agreements terms and conditions, to fix the vehicle. At the end of the agreement 
the vehicle must be inspected and handed back on the same day. I think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr L to have known the car would be inspected when he handed it back.
So, looking at the evidence about the condition of the car when it was returned, Im satisfied 
that there was damage that was beyond fair wear and tear. I also think that Mr L was liable 
for this damage, in line with the agreements terms and conditions, which he had agreed to 
when he signed the agreement. I also dont think that Mr L not signing the condition report 
renders it so unfair that Arval cant charge him for his damage. I disagree that he was put at 
a financial disadvantage by not signing the report given the evidence of the condition of the 
car.
I looked next at Mr Ls complaint about Arvals handling of his request to pay the invoice via 
a payment plan, and its actions when taking the payments by direct debit without his 
consent. I can appreciate that this situation will have caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. He contacted Arval to ask about paying the end of contract charges as he 
couldnt afford to do so all at once. I think Arval was aware of Mr Ls financial position at that 
time and so I would expect it to act sympathetically and positively. I appreciate it arranged 
for the Collections Team to speak with him, but it should also have been aware that the 
payments were due shortly. By the time Mr L was contacted the direct debits, that he 
couldnt afford, had already been taken.
Under the agreement Arval are entitled to take payments due under the account by direct 
debit, so it didnt need Mr Ls consent when it took the payments for these invoices. 
However, I agree with our investigator that Arval should have done more as it knew about Mr 
Ls financial situation, and one action it could have taken would have been to put the end of 
contract charges on hold, meaning that the direct debits wouldnt have been taken when 
they were.
Arval has accepted our investigators view in respect of this part of Mr Ls complaint. It has 
agreed it will pay him the £100 compensation she recommended. While I appreciate Mr L 
may be disappointed with this award, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The money was reimbursed, although Mr L had to claim it back via his bank and the 
payment plan, after some delay, has now been set up. I accept that Mr L will have been 
distressed and inconvenienced while this was all being sorted out.
f
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint as I do think Arval 
didnt handle his payment plan request in a way that could be reasonably have been 
expected. 
Putting things right
Im asking Arval to pay Mr L £100 compensation, if it has not already done so, for the delay 
in setting up the payment plan, and the taking of the direct debits from his bank account. 
This has caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Im asking Arval UK Limited to pay 
Mr L £100 compensation for its handling of his request to set up a payment plan to clear the 
end of contract charges.However, Im not asking Arval UK Limited to do anything more in respect of the actual 
amount of these charges as I am satisfied that they are fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman