DRN-3559499
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy he was treated unfairly by Action 365 Ltd (Pukka Services) when he
purchased and then cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 March 2021, Mr C purchased a car insurance policy through a broker for £520.59. The
broker is an appointed representative acting for and on behalf of Pukka Service  so for
ease of reading Ill only refer to Pukka Services in my decision.
Mr Cs proof of no claims discount wasnt accepted as hed accrued it on a fleet insurance
policy. So, he asked to cancel his policy on 12 March 2021. He received a refund of £418.18
after a deduction of a £52.50 new business fee, £45 cancellation fee and £4.91 for time on
cover.
Unhappy with the refund amount, Mr C raised a complaint. He said that he wasnt made
aware of these fees, and neither was it made clear to him that no claims discount on a fleet
insurance policy wouldnt be accepted. He was also dissatisfied with the customer service he
received  he wasnt told about the fees when he called to cancel the policy, failed call back
promises and incorrect information in the final response letter.
Pukka Services said that the terms and conditions highlighted the charges which Mr C
agreed to, before purchasing the policy. They confirmed the refund amount provided was
correct.
Our investigator said it was fair for Pukka Services to apply the £52.50 new business fee as
it was explained in the terms and conditions which Mr C accepted. But he asked Pukka
Services to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
customer service issues.
Pukka Services initially accepted the investigators recommendation, but then stopped
engaging with our service. Although Pukka Services or Mr C didnt ask for an ombudsmans
decision, this is usually the next step in our process in these circumstances. Since the
complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What I had provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2022, and I made the following findings:
Firstly, Id like to clarify that Im considering this complaint against Pukka Services 
instead of the broker. This is because the broker is the appointed representative of 
Pukka Services. This means Pukka Services are ultimately responsible for any 
actions or inactions by the broker as they act for and on behalf of Pukka Services.
For clarity, Mr Cs complaint about the cancellation fee of £45 which was charged by 
the insurer is being considered against them separately, as they are responsible for 
this aspect of the complaint  so I wont be commenting about it any further here.
New business fees
Sometimes a broker will charge an arrangement fee instead of receiving commission, 
and this fee isnt usually refunded if the policy is cancelled. But Id expect that this is 
made clear to the consumer when the policy is sold.
Ive seen a screenshot of the page Mr C wouldve seen before he purchased the 
policy. The page includes a quote for the policy with an asterisk next to the total 
amount. At the bottom of the page, this is explained as:
these prices are inclusive of Insurance Premium Tax, Instalment interest (if
instalment option selected) and a £XX non-refundable new business fee.
It also has hyperlinks to the terms and conditions, policy wording, policy information 
and privacy policy. Mr C had to tick a box to confirm he agrees to the information in 
these documents before proceeding to click Buy now.
On page 2 of the terms and conditions, a table clearly sets out all the charges that 
may apply to Mr Cs policy. This explains that at new policy inception, a charge will 
be made based on the type of policy purchased which will be a maximum of £100. It 
further states that the actual charge payable will be confirmed before going ahead 
with the purchase. This is confirmed in the screen Ive mentioned above.
Im satisfied Mr C was reasonably made aware that a £52.50 non-refundable new 
business fee would be charged, as it was mentioned on the page Mr C wouldve 
seen before he purchased the policy as well as in the terms and conditions which he 
confirmed he agreed to.
If Mr C wasnt happy to pay the non-refundable new business fee, he was within his 
rights not to proceed with the purchase. So, I cant fairly ask Pukka Services to 
refund this fee.
Sales process
Mr C generated his quote initially through a comparison site before being directed to 
the broker. Ive looked at the question he was asked regarding no claims discount 
when completing his quote  Id expect this to be clear and not misleading:
How many years no claims bonus do you have?
Having looked at this, the question clearly refers to how many years no claims bonus 
Mr C had personally. There is also a question mark next to this with text and 
guidance on how to answer the question.
This explained:
A no claims bonus (NCB)is awarded for each continuous year you hold   
private car insurance in your own name without making a claim
Im satisfied this makes it clear that the no claims discount is given on private car 
insurance policies. I appreciate Mr C didnt make any claims for seven continuous 
years while he was insured on a fleet insurance policy, but this was not a policy he 
held in his own name on a private car insurance.As I explained, the question asked was clear but, in any event, I think its reasonable 
to expect Mr C to have checked the guidance text before answering the question  
particularly since he was aware that he was only insured to drive on a fleet insurance 
policy which wasnt in his name, and he was applying for a private car insurance 
policy.
I wouldnt expect the question or guidance to specify that no claims discounts on a 
fleet insurance policy would be excluded, nor would I reasonably expect it to be 
mentioned in the terms and conditions.
I say this because, the question and guidance text are already clear that the no 
claims discount is awarded for each continuous year where a private car insurance 
policy is held in the customers own name without making a claim. Its also not 
realistic or practical to specify exclusions regarding other types of policies as its not 
relevant to most customers purchasing private car insurance.
All things considered, Im satisfied Mr C was asked a clear question and was 
provided guidance text to help answer it. I cant hold Pukka Services responsible if 
Mr C assumed his no claims discount on a fleet insurance policy would be accepted 
without reading the guidance text.
Customer service
Ive listened to the call of 12 March 2021, when Mr C asks to cancel the policy. I 
agree Mr C wasnt informed of any charges during this call. However, the adviser lets 
him know that a different department would deal with the cancellation and send him a 
breakdown. I can see this was sent to Mr C on 18 March 2021. This wasnt 
unreasonable.
Turning to Mr Cs point on failed call back requests, looking at the contact records, I 
can see that Mr C was promised call backs. However, the records dont indicate that 
he was given a timescale.
I think it would have been helpful for Pukka Services to have told Mr C when to 
expect the call back, but Im satisfied Mr C was contacted within a reasonable time. 
And his complaint was addressed quickly, within 12 days of him first raising his 
concerns. So, I cant agree the customer service was poor.
That said, I agree the final response letter had incorrect information as it said Mr C 
had cancelled his policy outside the 14-day cancellation period. While this appears to 
be a typographical error, it materially affects the outcome from Mr Cs point of view 
(he had cancelled within 14 days). There were also other minor errors on the amount 
charged for the new business fee and on who applied which charge.
I agree this would have been confusing and frustrating for Mr C. It gives the 
impression that his concerns werent taken seriously which would naturally be 
disappointing. Taking into account the impact on Mr C, I think Pukka Services should 
compensate him with £50 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
I dont think a higher amount of compensation is warranted here because dealing 
with financial businesses isnt always hassle free and mistakes do happen. I need to 
be satisfied that the impact was more than the normal nuisances of everyday life.
While Mr C expected a higher level of customer service as he feels he shouldve 
been informed about the charges when he called to cancel, and he shouldnt have had to chase the call backs. I dont think these issues are significant enough to ask 
Pukka Services to pay compensation  particularly when they did provide him with a 
breakdown of charges and called him back within a reasonable time.
Having considered the impact of the incorrect information in the final response letter, 
Im satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr C agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. Pukka Services 
havent responded within the deadline given.
Since the parties havent provided any further comments or information, there isnt anything 
else for me to consider. Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision. 
In summary, to put things right, Pukka Services should pay Mr C £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Action 365 Ltd should pay Mr C 
£50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman