DRN-2960957
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Metro Bank PLC (Metro) incorrectly accused him of defrauding his step 
father, and then didnt apologise in writing. 
What happened
Mr F says in 2018 he was phoned by a representative of Metro and accused of defrauding 
his step fathers account. This caused Mr F upset and to worry until the issue was resolved.  
Mr F says he was phoned by a representative who had investigated, she apologised for the 
incident. He asked her to confirm the apology in writing, which she never did.  
In 2021 Mr F made a complaint about this. Metro said due to the lack of evidence and the 
time that has passed it could not confirm one way or another what had happened. It said 
there were no phone recordings from that time because the representative had used her 
company mobile, also due to the time that had passed even if there had been a recording, it 
would no longer be accessible. Because of this Metro didnt provide a written apology and 
said it wouldnt be doing anything further.
Mr F didnt agree and so brought his complaint to this service. He explained hed been 
extremely unwell at the time so didnt make a complaint but is now. 
An investigator considered the complaint and said she didnt think Metro had acted unfairly. 
Mr F disagreed and so asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. The case has now 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and Id like to explain why. 
Unfortunately, because of the lack of evidence there is no way of me knowing what 
happened. So, I need to decide what is most likely and if Metro acted fairly and reasonably 
in the circumstances. 
Its not unusual for bank staff to be assigned a work mobile and to use it to make calls. 
However, in this circumstance its meant that we cant listen to what happened in 2018.  So, I 
must consider alternative evidence. In this case Ive seen the substantial notes on Mr Fs 
account dating back past 2018. There is nothing on these notes to suggest Metro ever 
suspected Mr F of fraudulent activity. Fraud is a very serious accusation and one that 
triggers several different processes and warnings on banking systems. In addition, there are 
no notes from Metro or any correspondence sent from Mr F at the time referring to these 
phone calls or the accusations. I appreciate Mr F was very unwell and so this may not have 
been at the forefront at his mind. However, I think its likely that calls such as ones to 
question someone about suspected fraud would have been recorded in some way by the 
staff involved.
While responding to Mr Fs complaint Metro said With this in mind, although I was pleased 
to read that you have confirmed the receipt of a verbal apology from.. Mr F says this 
shows Metro had called him to apologise. Im not persuaded it does. I say this because I 
think Metro was finding a way to respond to a complaint about an incident that it had no 
information about. And so, I dont take this as any admission of error or of the incident Mr F 
is referring to. 
Considering all the evidence, Im not persuaded Mr F was accused of fraud by Metro, 
however I accept it may have been possible So, Ive considered what Mr F has told us 
happened. Mr F has said after the accusation one of Metros staff investigated and called to 
apologise for the misunderstanding. He says this took five days. While I appreciate this 
would have been distressing for Mr F, I dont think this is an unreasonable amount of time. In 
addition, he says they called to apologise. 
Mr F wanted the apology confirmed in writing. And hes unhappy this didnt happen. 
Considering there are no notes or calls for Metro to refer to I dont think it would be 
appropriate to suggest they apologise in writing now. The apology would not be genuine or 
meaningful.
Having considered everything, I dont think Metro has acted unfairly. And so, I dont uphold 
Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Metro Bank PLC. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my 
decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Kinjal Vadgama
Ombudsman