DRN-4000304
The complaint
Mr D complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension plan recommended to 
him by a financial adviser. 
Court Ross Financial Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. To 
keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Court Ross.
What happened
These events relate to quite a long time ago and the information and documentation likely to 
have been relied on and used at the time is now limited. 
However, it seems that in late 1991 Mr D asked Court Ross for advice in relation to 
transferring the benefits from his existing OPS  a large public sector scheme - to a type of 
personal pension arrangement. In the spring of 1992, Court Ross recommended that Mr D 
transfer away from the OPS and he followed that advice. The cash equivalent transfer value 
of the OPS as of March 1992 was around £7,375.
Ive used the information Ive been able to get from documents and from Mr D himself to help 
describe his circumstances of that time:
At the time of the transfer away from his DB scheme, Mr D was 39 years of age. He 
was married to Mrs D who had a part-time job. They had two dependent children 
aged around 15 and 13.
Mr and Mrs D lived in a mortgaged property with around £28,000 outstanding. 
Theres so suggestion they had any other significant debts, and they had no other 
relevant assets. Mrs D didnt have a pension of her own and Mr D infers he may have 
had a small defined contribution (DC) pension in addition to his DB scheme. This 
small DC pension isnt related to this complaint.
Mr D worked in the education sector and was, as of 1992, a deferred member of the 
OPS. Thats because hed evidently joined the scheme in September 1981 and left it 
in December 1987. This means he had accrued 6 years and 122 days pensionable 
service.
Although Mr D left the education sector in December 1987, he returned to it in around 
1990. However, he didnt take up the option of re-joining the OPS and continuing his 
DB pension accrual. This means Mr D remained a deferred member of the DB 
scheme with 6 years and 122 days accrued service, as before. The normal 
retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 60 years old.
Mr and Mrs D were said to be in good health as of 1992.
Mr D complained in 2022 to Court Ross about the suitability of the transfer advice as he now 
thinks the transfer was unsuitable and has caused him a financial loss.
Court Ross didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and said it thought hed made it too late under the 
rules we work to. However, since hes referred his complaint to our Service, Ive issued a 
jurisdiction decision explaining that I think the complaint is one we can look at. One of our 
investigators has also looked at the circumstances and said that they think we ought to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint about the transfer away from the OPS being unsuitable. Court Ross 
still doesnt agree, so I have been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, these events are from over 30 years ago and so there were different rules in 
place at the time about pensions, and specifically, about the transferring of DB schemes to 
personal pension arrangements. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Court Ross's actions here.
The advice was provided by Court Ross in 1992 and the recommendation was for Mr D to 
transfer to a personal plan operated by a large and well-known pension provider of that time. 
A letter from the company that took over the provider confirms Court Ross wasnt tied to the 
provider at the time of the advice. So, in my view, this means at the time Court Ross was a 
member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association 
(FIMBRA).
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. Examples 
of the key rules applying from April 1988 are set out, although not limited to, those below:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
The rules also said that advisers must ensure their recommendations were made 
based on the best interest of the client and were the most suitable for the client. They 
also provided that no transaction should be recommended if it could secure the 
objectives of the client more advantageously than the transaction recommended from 
the same or a different source.
So, Court Ross should have only considered a transfer if it could demonstrate that the 
transfer away from Mr Ds deferred DB scheme was in his overall best interests. And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.Introductory issues
As Ive said, there is only a very limited amount of documentation and evidence available 
from the time of the advice. However, Mr D says he was recommended to approach Court 
Ross by a friend of a friend and he says that when he met with the firm he was advised to 
transfer out of the DB scheme and into a personal pension plan. He says he was told that 
the pension could grow by more outside the OPS and that this would mean it was better for 
him.
To demonstrate Court Rosss actions, Ive seen evidence that it wrote to Mr Ds then OPS 
pension provider in November 1991 asking to see the cash equivalent transfer value of his 
DB pension. Court Ross also later provided evidence to the DB scheme trustees of Mr Ds 
personal details. I can also see the transfer away from the OPS was probably in around 
March 1992. And it seems that when he transferred, Mr Ds CETV was moved over into two 
different personal pension policies with the new provider. References issued ended in 499 
for the first and 127 for the second. Ive assumed this was done to split the pension into two 
different funds as Ive seen mention of a balanced fund and also a with profits fund. 
Ive also seen evidence of Court Ross providing ongoing financial advice / agency to Mr D in 
the years after the transfer and it continued to periodically ask for information about the 
value of the transferred funds in the two plans on Mr Ds behalf. For example, Court Ross 
says it had specific dealings with Mr D around 1995 concerning the industry-wide Pension 
Review process in that it wrote to the pension provider seeking certain pieces of information. 
However, as my jurisdiction decision pointed out, it is now unable to provide the relevant 
paperwork about this. 
I also know that in 2009, policy number 499 was made the subject of a Pension Sharing 
Order (PSO) with 100% being awarded to Mrs D who was divorcing Mr D. 
For the other fund, policy number 127, it seems that around 18 years after the transfer, in 
2010, Mr D still had this allocated in his own name and this wasnt subject of the 2009 PSO. 
However, it seems he transferred it from the pension provider to a SIPP (a type of self 
invested pension operated by another provider). As on 8 April 2010, the value in pension 
policy number 127 was £30,753 although there is some evidence this had been added to in 
the intervening years by Mr D.
So, to be clear, I think theres plenty of persuasive evidence that Court Ross acted for Mr D 
as of late 1991, throughout 1992, and beyond. Im satisfied it recommended the transfer 
away from his DB scheme. And my previous jurisdiction decision confirms this complaint is 
one we can look into.
Financial viability of the transfer
If Court Ross really had put Mr Ds pension transfer through the Pension Review process in 
the mid-1990s I think its safe to say wed probably now have much more information 
available about the financial viability of this transfer. Put another way, Id expect to see 
evidence of the adviser having shown Mr D in 1992, some clear and understandable 
comparisons between either leaving his pension where it is  or transferring away and into a 
personal pension arrangement. However, because Court Ross cant produce any documents 
or evidence about Mr Ds case going through a Pension Review, theres very little to 
compare the financial viability of a transfer against. There is nothing showing that this 
consumer could therefore make an informed decision.
In most cases, such a comparison is usually set out in the suitability report, where the 
adviser makes his / her recommendations. Reference is also usually made to a critical yield rate. The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be 
required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same 
annuity income as the DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things 
which help show how likely it is that a personal pension fund could achieve the necessary 
investment growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, unless we have a case we specifically know went through the Pension Review 
process and / or that the business carried out a Financial Viability Test (FVT), the critical 
yield probably wont have been calculated. Instead, any personal pension illustrations the 
adviser obtained after July 1988 and before June 1994, as in this case, would have probably 
been based more on the regulators prescribed growth rates (with charges being taken into 
account). But Court Ross hasnt been able to show us any information or documents at all 
from when it provided the advice. In my view, this is a significant failure on Court Rosss part 
as Id expect to have seen the evidence of the Pension Review it claims to have applied to 
Mr Ds case, and if it did this, the associated documentation about the financial viability and 
the case for the transfer. This failure means I cant confirm whether Mr D was able to 
compare the DB scheme properly or whether it was in his best interests transfer away at all.
Court Ross also hasnt been able to supply the original fact-find that might have been 
carried out at the time of the advice, nor a suitability report which would have listed the 
recommendation rationale. However, we do still have access to the DB scheme CETV and 
general benefit information, along with illustrations about the new proposed personal 
pension scheme, so Ive used these to help me think about what most likely happened.
The advice was given during broadly the same period covered by the subsequent Pension 
Review process, so the rates the regulator published for FVT are directly relevant here 
(sometimes these rates are also referred to as Discount Rates). We have no critical yield to 
show the level of investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement, but 
when the advice was given, our investigator pointed out that the regulators upper limit for 
the FVT was 11.3% per year for 20 years to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle 
projection 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 8.5% per year. Without evidence of the 
critical yield it is, of course, difficult to assess the actual growth required to match the DB 
scheme. And I cant say what Court Ross told Mr D what assumed growth it was projecting 
for his transferred funds. However, given the higher investment growth returns which were 
more common at the time, and as Mr D had about 20 years until retirement, its likely Court 
Ross concluded that a personal pension would grow enough to provide a higher pension at 
retirement than the scheme he was already in. 
However, as Ive said, Court Ross cant show us this now as theres no evidence of the 
critical yield or any other comparator growth figure being given to Mr D. It therefore cannot 
be demonstrated that the level of growth outside the OPS would be sufficient to have 
exceeded the level of income the DB scheme would have provided at retirement. And there 
would be little point in Mr D transferring from a DB scheme only to receive long-term 
financial benefits of a lower, or even similar, value. Thats because Mr D would also be 
giving up the valued guarantees and benefits normally associated with a DB scheme. I 
explain more about these benefits below.
With the limited information available Ive also seen no evidence that Court Ross assessed 
Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR). This is important because it could reflect how much Mr D might 
expect his transferred pension to grow by allocating the money into funds with certain risk 
profiles. His ATR might also help reveal whether he fully understood his situation enough to 
ensure a transfer away from a DB scheme at all was in his best interests. But Ive not seen 
anything to show Court Ross made it clear to Mr D what the risks were of him transferring. It had a responsibility to make it clear to him that by transferring out of his DB scheme he 
would be giving up a guaranteed and index linked income in retirement and instead would be 
investing in a product that was subject to investment risk and the volatility of the financial 
markets. 
Ive noted at the time that Mr D was married, he had a mortgage, and he and Mrs D had two 
dependent children. Theres also no evidence of them having any financial assets to fall 
back on such as savings, investments or other properties and his only other pension was 
described as small. Mrs D evidently had no pension. So, in this context, I dont think Mr Ds 
situation merited an ATR of anything more than low. On the upside, one could say he still 
had 20 years of working and therefore, some time for his new pension funds to grown in. 
However, in the absence of anything else, I also think his capacity for loss was low. This 
pension appeared to be his only meaningful retirement provision and I think there were 
already gaps in that provision given hed left his profession and become self-employed. He 
had also declined to re-join the DB scheme in 1990 upon re-entering the profession and I 
think this would have meant losing out on valuable employer pension contributions. 
These things therefore also lead me to fairly conclude that Mr D wasnt experienced in these 
types of pension matters, that he had a low ATR, and a low capacity for loss. Court Ross 
has produced no evidence that transferring away from the DB scheme was in Mr Ds best 
interests from a financial comparability perspective.
Nevertheless, its possible that the recommendation to transfer away wasnt based on 
financial comparisons alone. Court Ross hasnt put forward any other rationale for the 
transfer, but I have considered other possible reasons below. However, I start from the 
premise that Mr D was a deferred member of a large public sector pension scheme with 
secured funding.
Other possible factors that should have been considered in the transfer
His age / retirement plans
Ive considered Mr Ds age at the time - we know he was still only 39 years old. Therefore, in 
good health and with a young and growing family, I think its safe to say Mr D was barely 
even mid-career and theres simply no likelihood of him having concrete retirement plans, 
or indeed any idea at all of what his retirement income requirements might be.
For the same reasons, theres also no indication or evidence that Mr D might have required 
any specific financial flexibility in retirement which merited him changing his pension at such 
a young age. In any event, he would have already had limited flexibility in his existing 
scheme which would have included the ability to retire early, or the choice between taking a 
retirement lump-sum or taking a full pension with no lump-sum. So, I dont think theres any 
evidence why Mr Ds best interests wouldnt be served by him using his DB pension in 
exactly the way it was originally intended. Even if Mr Ds preference was to embrace DC 
pensions from that point forward, I think that maintaining his existing DB scheme would have 
complemented such a strategy. And by contributing to a DC scheme for many more years, 
hed have still been in a position where some of his retirement income was guaranteed 
through his original pension.
Mr D was given some illustrations about the possible pension he might have with the new 
scheme. But this was still over 20 years away from his NRA. So, there was no apparent 
need for his retirement income to be flexible and Court Ross couldnt realistically say 
transferring met his income needs in retirement because it didnt know what these were. In 
my view, the illustrations were without any context as they were based on future market performance and they were not like-for like comparisons with Mr Ds existing scheme and 
the values could have turned out lower. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits so young. If Mr D later had reason to transfer out 
of his DB scheme he could have done this much closer to retirement.
Control over his pension
Theres no evidence that Mr D was an experienced investor or that he had the interest or 
desire to manage his own pension funds going forward. Ive considered that Mr D says he 
probably had another small DC pension. However, theres no evidence this involved 
investment decisions from him or that hed ever had other investments linked to the stock 
market (or similar). So, I dont think that obtaining personal control over his pension was a 
genuine objective for Mr D. 
Mr Ds OPS was already managed for him by trustees and I think the charges and costs 
associated with a personal pension would have been higher. I think that Mr D would have 
required ongoing financial support and guidance in managing his funds  the evidence tends 
to support this  and as this might have had to last for 20 more years, these costs would 
have been quite considerable, compared against the low costs likely found in his existing 
scheme.
Death benefits
Again, theres no evidence suggesting this was a prominent feature of the transfer advice in 
Mr Ds case. However, I think the death benefits attached to his existing DB scheme were 
likely to have been underplayed. Mr D was married and had children and so the spouses 
and dependents pension(s) provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to Mrs D if 
Mr D predeceased her. I think there were also benefits would have helped provide for 
support with their children whilst still in full-time education. I dont think its credible that Court 
Ross made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mr D. This is because I think he 
would have considered them as being of great reassurance, especially as Mrs D didnt 
apparently have a pension of her own. 
Suitability of investments
Court Ross recommended that Mr D invest in certain funds. As Im upholding the complaint 
on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he 
should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
Its unfortunate in this case that we have relatively little documentation to refer to. However, 
what I can say is that Court Ross is responsible for answering this complaint. The evidence 
clearly shows it was acting as Mr Ds adviser and that it sought out information about his DB 
scheme from the trustees at the time. It then provided Mr D with advice, which 
recommended he should transfer away from his DB scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. The evidence also shows that Court Ross maintained agency thereafter and 
continued to act as Mr Ds adviser in the years after he followed its transfer-out 
recommendation.Nonetheless, even without the information and documentation Id expect to see in a case like 
this, I clearly think the advice given to Mr D was unsuitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income with his existing DB scheme. And there were no financial 
comparisons which indicated hed receive better, or even similar, financial benefits upon 
retirement as a result of transferring away. Mr Ds transferred funds would need to grow very 
substantially, year-on-year, for over 20 years, just to match what he already had.
There were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  For 
example, he was still too young to have any retirement plans and his income needs in 
retirement simply couldnt be judged so early in life. Similarly, he had no real desire or 
capacity to manage his funds and would only incur higher costs in the future in being helped 
to do so. Finally, I dont think the death benefits associated with his DB scheme were worth 
giving up.
So, I think everything points to this DB pension being best used in the way it was intended. 
Mr D was still young, was married, had children, a mortgage and all the demands that come 
with family life. At the time, this pension was his main retirement provision by some way and 
it contained guaranteed benefits which I think were probably underplayed. In my view, Court 
Ross should have advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would have gone ahead anyway, against Court 
Ross's advice. But Im not persuaded that Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of 
the DB scheme, against Court Rosss advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced 
investor most probably with a low attitude to risk. He likely paid for the advice. So, if Court 
Ross had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Ive considered with great care, the fact we have so little documentation to refer to in this 
case. Ive considered whether, in particular, it is fair to use my experience and opinion to 
determine what most likely happened, in the light of that lack of documentation. However, 
Court Ross ought to have kept some paperwork. The firm itself made a substantial challenge 
that Mr Ds case would have been thoroughly reviewed under the Pension Review process. 
Of course, if that were true, then this Review was a significant event for regulated financial 
advisers in the pensions landscape and we see many cases where firms are able to produce 
the assurance Ive been looking for above. Court Ross is at fault for being unable to produce 
the records we normally expect to see.
In my view, transferring away from a safe and guaranteed pension at the age of 39 would 
have required powerful, clear and documented rationale. Given Mr D could have had no real 
knowledge of what the future looked like, he had no need to change his pension strategy at 
that point. 
It simply wasnt in his best interests.
In light of the above, I think Court Ross should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Court Ross to put Mr D, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Court Ross must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. My understanding is that Mr D has depleted most 
of the pension fund.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Court Ross should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Court Rosss offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Court Ross 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
Court Ross pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Court Ross Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Court Ross Financial Management Limited pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Court Ross Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman