DRN-2840216
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under Section 
75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty furniture.
What happened
 In November 2017 Mr H bought a sofa from a retailer I will call D. It cost ££1,823 and was 
funded by a deposit of £210 and the balance with fixed term loan from Clydesdale. The sofa 
was delivered in December and the following day Mr H contacted D to say an arm was 
loose. A technician was sent by D and he repaired the arm. 
In April 2019 Mr H reported the arm was loose and D arranged for it to be repaired. This was 
repeated in December 2019 and D said the sofa needed to be taken back for repair. This 
was done in January 2020, but Mr H reported to D that the arm had come loose again in 
February 2020 and he requested a replacement. D refused and Mr H made a claim under 
section 75 in March 2020. 
There were delays in handling the claim and Clydesdale paid £100 for this. It contacted D 
which disputed that there was a fault with the sofa. Clydesdale asked The Furniture and 
Home Improvement Ombudsman (FHIO) to examine the sofa. This was done and a report 
was done in November 2020. The inspector said the sofa wasnt faulty and the holding bolts 
on the arm were to the correct specification. 
Mr H challenged this report and said the report didnt reflect what the inspector had told him. 
He also questioned the independence of the inspector. FHIO accepted Mr Hs complaint and 
offered to send a senior inspector to carry out a second inspection, but Mr H refused as he 
doubted its independence. 
Clydesdale attempted to resolve the matter by offering to write off the balance on Mr Hs 
account of some £337.98 and pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500 
in addition to the £100 it had paid previously. Mr H rejected this offer. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded Clydesdales offer 
was fair. He reviewed the complaint in detail and said that he was unable to say that the sofa 
had a fault which could allow him to say there had been a breach of contract. Mr H didnt 
agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is a clear debtor-creditor supplier link in this complaint and the only issue for me to 
consider is whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
There was fault with the sofa on delivery with an arm being loose and this was repaired by 
D. It seems the sofa was satisfactory for some 15 months before the arm came loose again. 
It was repaired again, but in early 2020 Mr H felt he should be allowed to reject the sofa. 
To allow me to uphold this complaint I need compelling evidence that the sofa had an 
inherent fault. I gather the arms are detachable and held on to the main body by bolts. I 
cannot say that this is, of itself a design flaw, or that it makes the sofa inherently faulty. Quite 
simply that is the design supplied by D and chosen by Mr H. Although it was loose when 
supplied this was easily rectified and that fix held of over a year. I presume the sofa was 
used and so it will have been subjected to some wear and tear. I cannot say with any 
certainty if the subsequent loosening was due to an inherent fault or wear and tear. 
The report by the FHIO inspector has been challenged by Mr H and I dont consider I can 
rely on it. No further inspection has been carried out and so I am reliant on the views of Mr H 
and D. As such I cannot safely conclude that there has been a clear breach of contract and 
while I have every sympathy with Mr H I regret I cannot uphold his complaint.
I do so, recognising that Clydesdale has made a reasonable offer to settle the matter. If I had 
upheld the complaint, I would have to take into account the use Mr H has had of the sofa 
and I would not be asking the bank to refund the full cost. In the circumstances I believe the 
offer of £837.98 is fair and reasonable. 
As for the matter of delays in responding to Mr Hs request for information or the delays in 
dealing with his complaint this is not a regulated matter within my jurisdiction.
Putting things right
 Clydesdale should pay the compensation it has offered.
My final decision
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 and write off 
the outstanding balance to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited should pay £500 and write off 
the outstanding balance. I would add that it should remove any adverse entries it may have 
placed on Mr Hs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman