DRN-2869288
The complaint
Mr P says Zurich Assurance Ltd paid out an incorrect claim value to him in November 2020, 
after he made a successful claim for critical illness benefit under his whole of life policy. He 
says his sum assured was reduced without his knowledge or consent in 2011. To resolve his 
complaint, Mr P wants Zurich to pay the expected value, making up a shortfall of £49,823.  
What happened
Mr P applied for a Lifestyle Plus Plan in October 2001 with Allied Dunbar (now Zurich). The 
policy was a reviewable whole of life policy with critical illness cover (Lifestyle Plus Benefit). 
It had an initial sum assured of £225,000, with reviews taking place every five years. The 
policy was taken out through an independent financial adviser.   
In late 2006, Mr P moved to a new address. He says he wrote to various businesses with his 
new address for each of his financial policies, including Zurich. Zurich says it received a 
letter from Mr Ps IFA rather than Mr P at that time, but not about the whole of life policy. 
In 2010, Mr Ps IFA changed to a different business. The IFA wrote to Zurich to inform it of 
the change, and this letter had Mr Ps new address handwritten at the bottom. 
In August 2011, Mr Ps policy was reviewed, with the result that the premium was insufficient 
to maintain the sum assured. Without an increase to the policy premium (from £77.05 to 
£114.90), the sum assured was to reduce to £175,777. The letter informing Mr P of the 
review was sent to the old address, and Mr P says he never received it. The sum assured 
was therefore reduced as proposed since Zurich didnt hear from Mr P.
Similarly, a further letter of August 2016 was issued to Mr Ps old address. This letter said Mr 
P could increase his sum assured to £180,966 if he wished to do so whilst keeping the 
premium at £77.05. Again, this letter was sent to the first address. As Zurich did not receive 
a reply, Mr Ps policys sum assured therefore remained unchanged.  
Sometime after the end of 2017, Mr P moved to a new address for a third time. In 2020, he 
was sadly diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS). 
Mr P made a claim to Zurich in July 2020 for critical illness benefit. The claim was accepted 
and Mr P says he expected Zurich to make the full claim payment of £225,000. However, Mr 
P was paid the current sum assured of £175,177 on 27 November 2020. This was the first 
time Mr P had noted a change to the sum assured. He therefore made a complaint.  
Zurich rejected the complaint in January 2021. It said it had never received any 
correspondence from Mr P saying he had moved until November 2020 when it was told of 
the different (third) address in relation to Mr Ps claim.
Further, though it did receive the update regarding the financial adviser, that letter did not 
give a change of address from Mr P  even though the adviser had written the second 
address at the bottom, the instruction related to the change of IFA not the change of Mr Ps 
details. On that basis, its agency transfer team amended the new company name for the IFA 
but no amendments were made to Mr Ps records.  
Zurich said it was contractually entitled to conduct the reviews it did in 2011 and 2016. And it 
couldnt assume that Mr P would have made changes based on the reviews. It was therefore 
correct that it paid the sum assured under the policy as at the claim date in 2020.  
Mr P remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service in March 2021. He said 
Zurich sent letters to his old address, but it had been informed he had moved. He was not 
properly notified that his policy had been reviewed and therefore he had no opportunity to 
increase his premiums to maintain the £225,000 sum assured. Mr P submitted that he is not 
at fault for the error, and he should not bear the loss of a claim value.  
Specifically, Mr P said that in 2010 he received two letters from Zurich relating to a different 
financial product held with it  a pension  and these were copied to his IFA and sent to the 
new address that hed moved to in 2006. Mr P explained that these letters evidenced that 
Zurich knew of his new address, despite it claiming otherwise. 
Zurich said it would expect Mr P to have reasonably queried why he received no 
correspondence in the intervening years, despite being informed from the outset that his 
policy was subject to reviews. It also pointed out that Mr P moved again in late 2017 and he 
didnt tell Zurich that hed now changed to a third address. 
Further, it highlighted that for the product Mr P held with a different function at Zurich (a 
pension arrangement) it did receive a notification dated 4 December 2006 about Mr P having 
moved  that letter was issued by Mr Ps IFA as a direct change of address instruction. The 
adviser did not mention the whole of life policy in that letter or by separate cover.  
Finally, it said that to merely assume Mr P would have increased his sum assured in 2011 
was influenced by hindsight and his unfortunate need to make a claim in 2020. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he didnt think it should succeed. He said the two 
letters from the IFA in 2006 and 2010 did not relate to the whole of life policy, but the 
pension Mr P held. Zurich didnt have authorisation for the change to the other policy  and it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Zurich to assume the change applied elsewhere without 
direct instruction to that effect. 
The investigator appreciated Mr P didnt have the benefit of an automatic increase in 2016, 
but he didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly there either. That was because it couldnt amend 
the sum assured in accordance with the terms unless Mr P agreed to it  because it could 
have an impact on future reviews.
Mr P said he disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. In 
summary, he said:  
  
it appears that the investigator used some subjectivity when assessing the complaint, 
rather than precedent;   
relevant guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in relation to Gone 
Away customers in the life and pensions market says that providers ought to ensure 
robust systems to check whether customers may have moved away if no contact has 
been made for a set period, by using data sources such as the Land Registry;
similarly, providers could contact customers with alternative means such as 
telephone or email;
providers must also consider the potential detriment to long-term Gone Away 
customers;the Financial Conduct Authority has also issued similar guidance on Closed Book 
customers (where the original offering is no longer available), that says whilst a 
business is able to reply on a policys terms and conditions, a holistic consideration of 
fairness should be provided when treating customers fairly;
similarly, the FCA also says businesses should have means for keeping in touch with 
Gone Away customers;
to that end, regular and proactive contact ought to be made with long term 
customers;
it is clear to him that Zurich did not act consistently with best practice, nor was it 
compliant with industry or regulatory guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ps diagnosis and know that my decision will not be what he has 
hoped for. But I dont believe this complaint should succeed. In summary, my findings are:
complaints at this service arent determined by precedent as no two matters are 
factually identical;
rather, I will look at the evidence in the specific case before me and make findings 
which I believe to be a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of the 
specific complaint;
though I have no reason to doubt Mr P wrote to various businesses when he moved 
in 2006, the correspondence to Zurich was issued by his IFA  there is no evidence 
of any letter to Zurich at that time from Mr P;
that letter of 4 December 2006 gave consent to change the pension address, by 
confirming the reference number for that plan;
whilst I know Mr P feels that this letter should authorise change of address for any 
other financial service he may hold with Zurich at that time, it is not the case;
that is because a customer might have more than one address for policies of differing 
needs, for example if multiple policies are held for business purposes;
further, the address the IFA gave in the letter of 4 December 2006 as the old 
address for the pension plan was not the same address as the one on file for for the 
whole of life policy;
it is therefore reasonable that Zurich acted only in specific accordance with the 
instruction of that letter as it related to the instruction to change address for the 
pension arrangement;
the faxed letter of 2010 from the IFA providing a general letter of authority did not 
specify the details of the whole of life policy either  it was generic in nature because 
the change related to the IFAs new address;
that letter of authority did have Mr Ps new address handwritten at the bottom with a 
signature  but that would have related to the address on file for the pension 
arrangement;
without specific reference numbers or policy details, Zurich would only have been 
able to match that authority to the address change it received on 4 December 2006;
I recognise that Mr P was therefore left unaware that the policy had been reviewed in 
2011  aside from if he had recalled that it would be reviewed every five years when 
the policy was sold to him;
however, Zurich is not at fault for that, as it wrote to the address it understood to be 
correct on file;in any event, even if I were to accept that Mr P had written to Zurich about his 
address (though there isnt persuasive evidence to that effect), the 2011 letter was 
not only sent to Mr P;
the review letter with the proposal to reduce the sum assured was also issued to Mr 
Ps IFA, and the letter confirms as such;
the copy to Mr Ps IFA would have been issued to the correct address, since it had 
been updated the previous year;
Mr P moved address again in 2017  and this address was not communicated to 
Zurich;
I note the best practice guidance Mr P has referred to and I recognise there is a 
greater onus on communication with long term policies by a business in the first 
instance, Zurich cannot have known that Mr P moved to a new house again 
sometime after 2017 it was not told about that until the claim was made in 2020;
even if I were to assume that either party had made greater steps to ensure contact 
was made or addresses were properly recorded, I cannot conclude that Mr P would 
have wanted to pay an increased premium in 2011  it simply is not known what he 
would have done in the event of a review;
I say that because I cannot be sure that Mr P would have opted to pay a greater 
premium, given the proposed increase was some 49% higher than before;
at the relevant times, Mr P continued to be a client of his IFA  and though Mr P may 
have been unaware or forgotten that the policy had a reviewable nature, the IFA 
would or should have known that this was the case;
I do not consider, on the balance of the evidence before me, that Zurich was made 
reasonably aware of the address change in relation to the whole of life policy;
to that end -and noting that Mr Ps IFA was informed of the review- I cannot conclude 
that Mr P would likely have accepted the increased cost of the new premiums in 2011 
such that Zurich should now be consequentially liable to pay a claim based on the 
original sum assured.
My final decision
Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman