DRN-3864786
The complaint
Mr K complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hastings Direct, wrote to 
him part of the way through his insurance policy year asking him to make a further payment.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr K made a claim on his motor insurance policy with Hastings Direct 
when he was hit by an uninsured driver. When Mr K renewed his policy in May 2022, 
Hastings were aware of this claim, and it was factored into the quotation provided. 
In August 2022, Hastings contacted Mr K to say he needed to pay just under £70 more for 
his policy and this would be taken from his account several days later. It explained this is 
because the September 2021 claim was updated to a fault claim as Hastings hadnt been 
able to recover the outlay from the third party.
Mr K says Hastings wanted the payment within 48 hours of him receiving the email. But he 
had to wait until payday to make the payment which was a worry and meant he had to spend 
time discussing this with Hastings to ensure it would wait for the payment. He said he cant 
see any term allowing Hastings to do this and so hed like the money refunded to him as well 
as compensation for the distress caused. He feels if hed gone to another insurer at renewal 
in May 2022, this wouldnt have happened. 
Mr K complained to Hastings about this, but it didnt agree with him. So, he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into matters and thought it wasnt fair and reasonable for Hastings to 
increase the premium later when the policy was already in place. To put things right, the 
Investigator asked Hastings to refund the payment Mr K made, with interest, and £50 for the 
distress this caused due to Mr K not having the funds available at the time.
Hastings disagreed. It said it was recorded as a non-fault claim as they were expecting a full 
recovery. It says its policy terms are clear  changes to the policy may result in different 
terms or extra costs  and it was simply ensuring the details on the policy reflected the 
correct claim information. However, it noted it didnt charge a fee to update the information. 
Hastings communicated with the Investigator about these points, but the Investigator didnt 
change their view. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, Hastings 
needs to put things right. Ill explain why.
On renewal of Mr Ks policy in May 2022, there was an open claim which I wouldve 
expected to be recorded as a fault claim pending the claim being settled. 
I note Hastings may not have been ready to abandon its claim against the third party and 
says it expected to make a full recovery. However, it seems to me it was clear - as early as 
September 2021 - the claim was always likely to be recorded as a fault claim. This is on the 
basis Hastings was unlikely to fully recover its outlay. I say this particularly noting, as early 
as September 2021, the claim notes refer to the uninsured driver promise and third-party 
vehicle being uninsured.
Had the claim been an open fault claim, Mr K wouldve been charged the appropriate 
premium. This isnt what happened. By renewal time, Hastings recorded it as a non-fault 
claim. Then, when it decided to abandon recovery later in the policy year, sought to recover 
the increase in the premium mid-term from Mr K. 
Given Hastings was fully aware of the claim and Ive seen no evidence of any 
misrepresentations on Mr Ks part, I cant see itd be fair or reasonable for Hastings to later 
decide it wanted to apply a mid-term increase based on the realisation of a loss it was 
already likely aware of. Hastings shouldve factored in the claim  as an open fault claim - 
when setting the price for the annual contract on renewal in May 2022. It wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to increase this some months down line once the policy was in place. 
When a business makes a mistake, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as 
its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the mistake had on the consumer. 
 
The Investigator asked Hastings to put matters right by refunding the additional premium 
requested from Mr K in August 2022, with 8% simple interest from the date he paid it to the 
date of settlement, and £50 for the distress caused in Mr K being asked for the same. I see 
no reason to interfere with this recommendation. 
Mr K says this request put him under unnecessary stress and I consider the recommended 
redress appropriately recognises the impact this matter had on him.    
Finally, I note Hastings refers to its terms and conditions which it says required this change 
to be made. The extract provided relates to those changes the customer is required to inform 
its insurer about and specific examples are given such as your home address, mileage and 
where you keep your car at night. So, I dont agree the term referred to by Hastings applies 
in this particular situation.
Putting things right
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should take the below steps to put things right. 
1. Refund the additional premium requested from Mr K in August 2022
2. Add 8% simple interest on the refunded premium from the date Mr K paid it to the 
date of settlement.*
3. Pay £50 compensation to Mr K. 
*If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Advantage Insurance Company Limited and 
so it needs to take the steps outlined above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman