DRN-3121274
The complaint
Ms C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money she lost when she says she 
fell victim to a scam. 
This complaint only concerns Ms Cs current account. 
What happened
Ms C had recently returned to the UK following the breakdown of a relationship. She is a 
single mother of two and had previously left the finances to her ex-partner. One day she 
came across an advert online to trade in Contracts for Difference (CFDs). She showed 
some interest and was contacted by a number of companies offering their services. Two 
companies persuaded her to invest, Maxigrid Limited and ProfitiX Ltd.  
Maxigrid
Ms C initially started small - £250  and was then persuaded to invest a bit more, £2,500. 
Because of her son being ill, Ms C was unable to take calls from Maxigrid and as a result 
lost that investment; she said she hadnt been told she needed to make decisions and close 
trades. She made further transactions using both her current account and her credit card 
account. She was promised help with recovering her losses and so invested further and saw 
profits of 25% in gold. She also had successes with subsequent trades on other precious 
metals which built her confidence. She was told the risk disclaimer (for investing in CFDs) 
only applied to customers who traded without the involvement of professionals, which wasnt 
applicable for her. She was also told Maxigrid was registered with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), which she checked out for herself and was reassured to see this 
accreditation. 
Ms C was told about senior advisers who dealt with VIP accounts  and the more she 
invested the greater the VIP treatment. She built a good rapport with a senior adviser who 
was going to teach her more about investing and trading. Ms C found him and his 
explanations highly compelling and decided to become a Diamond VIP member And she 
was told with the Diamond level account she would only be risking 10% of her investment. 
From January 2020 she made no more profits and as coronavirus was beginning to take 
hold, she was told this was affecting financial markets.  On 9 February 2020 she asked to 
withdraw £135,000 but was persuaded against this as it would jeopardise trading plans. She 
was later told there had been a financial crash and her account was in a dangerous position 
with a low margin level in an extremely volatile market. She was told shed need to place 
more funds into the account in order to recover her losses, she was persuaded to do this, 
and invested her remaining savings with them. In March 2020 the account had a negative 
balance, and she was persuaded to invest further to help recover losses, which she did 
using credit cards. Although the account did recover to a positive balance no further credits 
were applied to the account. 
It was after this that Ms C spoke with a friend whose partner is a lawyer. As a result she sent 
a letter of demand to Maxigrid on 4 May 2020. Maxigrid didnt uphold her complaint. In total, 
Ms C sent payments of over £350,000 to Maxigrid between January 2020 and April 2020 
from her Barclays current account. She also received over £44,000 from the investment.
ProfitiX
Ms C was introduced to a financial adviser who was friendly and said he was from the same 
part of the country that she lives in, and so she felt a sense of connection. She was shown 
how to download a trading platform to her phone. She was also shown how to open and 
close trades and was encouraged to make initial deposits of up to £10,000. These were 
initially made by credit card and then also from her current account. There were a number of 
different ways of making deposits, mainly through cryptoexchanges and she was helped to 
do so by the finance department.  She was later contacted by a different adviser as she had 
deposited enough to qualify for a VIP account, although she wanted to continue dealing with 
her original adviser, she was eventually told he had left the company. 
Her new adviser persuaded her to fund deposits by obtaining credit, as she was told she 
could make a higher profit than it would cost her. She found this appealing as she was 
struggling to pay debts and she wanted to recover losses incurred through Maxigrid. And Ms 
C was eventually persuaded to borrow more, by borrowing against her home. She says she 
entered into a credit agreement with ProfitiX that it would temporarily provide her with 
$230,000 to trade with, whilst she arranged the re-mortgage on her home. But she was 
unable to do this due to the amount of debt she had built up. Ms C says she requested to 
withdraw from the credit agreement, but communications then turned nasty.
 
Ms C says she was told she had two different contracts with ProfitiX which meant she had to 
trade to a certain volume for a minimum of 6 months (until August 2020) and this was the 
reason she was unable to make any withdrawals. And when she asked to make a full 
withdrawal, she was told she could but would only get back about $20,000 because of the 
costs associated with closing an account. Ms Cs account was then frozen. She threatened 
legal action, as she had taken against Maxigrid, and was met with a counter legal threat from 
ProfitiX. But she was also told ProfitiX would look for a solution and if she deposited a further 
£50,000 she would continue to benefit from the VIP service. She felt it would be better to 
work with ProfitiX to try and save the amount she had already invested.
 
Over June 2020, Ms C struggled to get another £50,000 together and continued trading on 
the advice she received; she was opening and closing lots of trades. But about 10 days later, 
the free margin in her account dropped dramatically and she was told there was no money to 
withdraw. She was encouraged to put more money in the account, but she couldnt do so as 
she had been put in an impossible situation and had no further funds or credit to put into the 
account. Between February 2020 and June 2020, Ms C sent payments of over £125,000 to 
ProfitiX from her Barclays current account. She also received back over £13,000 from the 
investment. 
what happened next
On 4 May 2020 Ms C sent a request to Barclays to raise a chargeback for the payments 
made to Maxigrid, totalling £355,999. Ms C was told £75,300 of transactions fell outside of 
Visas time limits but a chargeback was raised for the remaining £275,999. A temporary 
credit for this amount was placed in Ms Cs account on 8 June 2020, although Ms C says 
she wasnt told this was temporary at the time.  
Following this, Ms C complained to Barclays on 20 June 2020 that it breached its duty of 
care in relation to the transactions made to Maxigrid. Ms C was sent an email on 21 August 
2020 which told her shed been held liable for the transactions and on 2 September 2020, 
Barclays re-debited £275,999 from her account as the chargeback had failed. On 19 July 2020, Ms C raised a chargeback request through Barclays for the payments in 
relation to ProfitiX. Barclays records show Ms C said making payments via CB Payments 
was the only means of transferring money to her ProfitiX account, and it was as a result of 
her experience with Maxigrid that she realised this was also a scam.  And on 31 July 2020 
she complained that Barclays had breached its duty of care in relation to the transactions for 
ProfitiX. 
Ms C asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
Maxigrid was a legitimate trading company regulated in another jurisdiction. She was 
therefore satisfied Barclays wasnt acting unfairly when not intervening in the payments 
made to it. However, she did agree ProfitiX was a likely scam, but Ms C had made payments 
to it despite seeing an FCA warning about it before hand. And she noted that the payments 
made in relation to this trader werent unusual given the higher payments to Maxigrid had 
normalised the pattern of payments and transactions. She also explained why Barclays 
hadnt acted unfairly in relation to the chargeback and why the CRM code didnt apply to the 
transactions in questions. 
Ms C strongly disagrees with the outcome reached and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. She has made very substantial submissions in response, which I 
summarise as:
Ms C disagrees Maxigrid isnt a scam. It led her to believe it was regulated by the 
FCA when it actually wasnt; it was regulated in another jurisdiction. Therefore 
Maxigrid lied to her. She didnt know the distinction between passporting and proper 
FCA registration although believes Barclays ought to have done, yet it did nothing. If 
Barclays had told her they were only passported and not fully regulated that would 
have helped. 
Barclays ought to have questioned the pattern of payments given her account history 
and blocked transactions if they couldnt contact her. Ms C considers this would have 
made all the difference. She also argues that too much weight has been placed on 
the authority of the FCA and we should disregard its position and listen to her 
instead. 
Another scam has been attempted by someone purporting to be her new bank. Her 
new bank blocked the account and as a result of discussions Ms C became live to 
another scam. The intervention of the bank made all the difference and she believes 
it would have done had Barclays intervened as well. 
Ms C disagrees that she was looking to invest, or that she was a risk taker with her 
investments. 
She was vulnerable at the time of making the transactions, having just returned to the 
UK following the break-up of a long-term relationship. Ms C also has two children to 
care for, one of which has significant issues with his health and school. And Ms C 
also has a history of mental and physical issues, which were compounded by the 
pandemic. The financial loss has had a devastating impact. 
The FCA disregarded its supervisory principles throughout the time Maxigrid was 
passported into the UK and so it didnt know whether it was fraudulent or not. A 
complaint has been made to the FCA about this, which Ms C wants us to await the 
outcome of before proceeding with any final decision. There is no credible evidence 
to support the investigators view Maxigrid was legitimate. The company managed to 
deceive not only her but also Barclays and the FCA. 
Ms C is satisfied that Maxigrid did dishonestly make a false representation and failed 
to disclose information with the intention of making a gain or of causing loss to 
another  in accordance with the Fraud Act 2006. 
Ms C considers it outrageous her complaint in relation to ProfitiX hasnt been upheld. Under the BSI code firms should take action to intervene upon identifying at least 
three out of eight signs of possible fraud. And in accordance with UK Finances 
toolkit, customers should be discreetly questioned, consider any responses and, if 
necessary, call the police so the police can attend the branch and speak with the 
customer. 
Barclays could have provided her with a fraud warning without it constituting 
investment advice. 
That Ms C was able to withdraw £18,000 at the end of her contract with Maxigrid was 
the reason for the chargeback failing but it should be noted this amount was allowed 
to be withdrawn as Maxigrid knew how to prepare themselves to refute a chargeback 
claim.
Barclays acknowledges that it didnt tell her of the temporary nature of the 
chargeback as it was very distressing to have £278,000 re-debit her account. 
Ms C references the CRM code and the basis on which refunds should be made to 
customers. 
Ms C has employed the services of a specialist trader to look at Maxigrids trading on 
her account. Amongst others they found there was no evidence the trades were 
executed by someone properly trained; the trading pattern was commission driven 
and unprofessional; the use of exceptionally high-volume trades was completely 
reckless and the required margin was an incomprehensible risk of total assets. 
ProftiX and Maxigrid operated in similar ways. As the investigator recognised ProfitiX 
was a scam that adds to the likelihood that Maxigrid was also fraudulent. The only 
difference was that Maxigrid managed to deceive regulatory bodies, emphasising 
their skill and mastery of deceit. 
Maxigrid has its license suspended in October 2021 by CySEC, and its 
owner/director has been arrested for multi-country fraud. And on 24 February 2022, 
CySEC withdrew its authorisation of Maxigrid entirely. 
Ms C wants the ombudsman to require the FCA to provide evidence of all of 
Maxigrids operation in the UK. She also wants the ombudsman to ask Barclays to 
provide evidence to show the implementation of regulations and guidelines that aim 
to prevent fraud from happening. 
Ms C considers a simple check on Barclayss database would have identified 
Maxigrid as a company of concern. And there should have been advice that because 
Maxigrid wasnt in the UK there might not be any right to pursue compensation, that 
kind of warning at the very least could have alarmed her about the risk she was 
about to undertake. 
The chargeback wasnt processed fairly and not taken as far as it should have been. 
Ms C considers Barclays could have used chargeback reason codes 13.3 and 13.5, 
but Barclays didnt consider reason code 13.3. 
Barclays was fined £26million in December 2020 by the regulator. 
Preliminary matters
Ms C has made substantial submissions.  Part of those submissions relate to the 
investigators handling of Ms Cs complaints. In this complaint, one of four which I am 
deciding for Ms C in relation to this matter, I am determining a complaint against Barclays. It 
isnt my role to comment on the service provided by the investigator, of which Ms C has also 
complained. It is only my role to decide whether Barclays did anything wrong, and if I find it 
did, whether it needs to compensate Ms C for any financial loss or distress and/or 
inconvenience as a result of that. 
For that reason, I will also not be making any comment on what role, if any, the FCA had to 
play in this. Ms C asked me to await the outcome of a complaint she has made against the 
FCA about its supervision of Maxigrid. But Im satisfied thats not necessary. A bank is not required to second-guess a business regulatory status, nor is it required to consider whether 
a regulator is carrying out its obligations effectively or whether it has been deceived into 
believing a business is legitimate. So even if the FCA agreed with Ms Cs complaint, which is 
far from certain, that wouldnt have any bearing on my consideration of whether Barclays did 
anything wrong.
Ms C has also cited the CRM code and UK Finances banking protocol. Im afraid neither of 
those provisions are applicable to Ms Cs complaint. The CRM code only covers push 
payments made to another person, to an account held in the UK. Ms Cs payments were 
made by debit card  these are pull payments, not push payments. A pull payment is one 
where the merchant requests the payment from the bank, whereas a push payment is where 
the payment is sent from the bank to the merchant. When Ms Cs card details were entered 
on the merchants website to make a payment, they then requested the money from her 
account  pulling the payment to it.  Therefore the CRM code isnt applicable to Ms Cs 
complaint.  
The UK Finances banking protocol only applies to transactions made in branch. None of the 
payments in dispute here were made in branch, so those provisions also arent relevant to 
my consideration. 
Ms C has asked me to obtain evidence from the FCA in relation to all of Maxigrids operation 
in the UK. Thats not part of my role nor is it relevant to my consideration of her complaint 
against Barclays. Shell need to contact the FCA for that information. And whether or not a 
bank has implemented fraud prevention measures as it ought to have done, is not within my 
remit. I can only consider individual complaints; the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt 
responsible for ensuring authorised businesses implement regulations, thats a matter for the 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
Finally, Ms C has mentioned Barclays being fined in December 2020. But its my 
understanding that fine related to how it dealt with customers in financial difficulties not its 
intervention, or lack thereof, into transactions that indicated its customers were at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. So Im not persuaded this is evidence of wrong-doing in relation to 
Ms Cs complaint or that its relevant.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the lengths Ms C has gone to, to support her case. I 
understand her losses have had a severe impact, not only on her finances for herself and 
her children, but also mentally and emotionally. I have a great deal of sympathy for the 
situation in which she finds herself, but that of itself isnt enough for me to uphold her 
complaint. I can only do so, if I find Barclays did something wrong, or it failed to do 
something it ought to have done, and that her losses flowed from that. 
The first question I need to consider in any complaint where someone alleges they have 
been involved in an investment scam is to determine, so far as is reasonably possible, 
whether they have in fact been scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk 
investment. And we need to make a decision about that because a bank, or other payment 
services provider, doesnt have any duty to intervene in payments that are being made to a 
to a legitimate investment or to protect customers from losses that flow from those 
investments. They only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to 
fraud  put simply, if there is no fraud or scam, there is no duty or obligation. Ms C invested via two different companies and so I will deal with each in turn. 
Maxigrid
Ms C has strongly argued that she has been scammed. She has provided a lot of 
information about how she built rapport with the traders, was persuaded to invest more and 
more and about the losses she incurred. She also says she has had the trades reviewed by 
a specialist trader and set out the concerns the specialist trader had with the investment 
strategy, in support of her view. 
I have considered this information carefully, but Im satisfied Maxigrid wasnt a scammer and 
some of the information Ms C has provided actually supports that. 
Ms C made payments to Maxigrid between January and April 2020. It is a CFD provider. 
CFDs are notorious for being a high-risk investment area, where many investors lose most, 
and oft times, all of their investment. That Ms C has incurred substantial losses isnt 
evidence, of itself, that she has been scammed. 
Maxigrid had been regulated by CySEC since June 2012. That meant it was regulated and 
authorised for the provision of financial services business. As Cyprus is a member of the 
European Union, like we were, it was part of the EU single market and was able to provide 
goods or services to other member states, including financial services. The FCAs financial 
services register would have shown that Maxigrid was regulated in another European 
Economic Area (EEA) country and it could offer certain products or services within the UK. 
Typically, a trading scammer will set up what looks like an investment trading business, 
whether thats into CFDs, cryptocurrency, or other types of commodity trading. A scammer 
will also provide a trading platform, which may or may not show investments/trades doing 
well or not, given the story being told by the scammer at the time. Rarely, and importantly, is 
the business real, or the trading platform genuine. The platform might show trades being 
carried out but in reality, a customers money hasnt been traded at all, it has been stolen by 
the scammer. A scammer is highly unlikely to submit itself to regulatory oversight in any 
jurisdiction, given the real risk of its true purpose being discovered. 
Ms C hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that Maxigrid stole her money, rather than 
lost it as a result of the trades placed. I note the specialist trader listed a number of issues 
they had with the trades carried out, such as the training and qualifications of staff to there 
being an incomprehensible risk of total assets. Importantly at no point does Ms Cs specialist 
indicate that her money wasnt actually traded and that it was stolen instead; rather it points 
to trades being carried out and, albeit for various reasons, they were poorly executed. Whilst 
this might be evidence of poor business practices, Im not persuaded it is persuasive 
evidence of a scam. 
Ms C has argued that too much weight has been placed on Maxigrid being regulated. She 
argues we ought to disregard the FCAs authority and listen to her instead. I understand why 
she has made the argument she has, given her losses, but I find her request unreasonable; I 
cannot agree it would be fair and reasonable of me to ignore or disregard the authority of the 
regulator. Ms C is asking me to put aside the fact that Maxigrid had been regulated and 
authorised for financial services business for seven-eight years prior to her investing with it. 
Her suggestion implies that we should take her word, over an institution that has been put in 
place by a member state for the express purpose of supervising its investment services 
market.  I have taken account of CySECs recent actions in relation to Maxigrid, specifically that it had 
its license to operate suspended and then withdrawn entirely. But I havent seen any 
evidence that CySEC took those steps because Maxigrid was a scam or had stolen 
customers money; rather the action was taken for other reasons. Im therefore not 
persuaded this information supports Ms Cs argument. 
I have considered all of Ms Cs points about this carefully even if Ive not mentioned them. I 
find she hasnt provided any persuasive or credible evidence that Maxigrid was a scammer. 
Overall, Im satisfied for the reasons given that it was a legitimate business offering what 
was a very high-risk investment opportunity. I understand Ms C has lost a substantial sum of 
money and that she is in very severe financial difficulties as a result. But as she was 
investing with a genuine CFD trader, I find no basis on which to find Barclays ought to have 
intervened in the payments made.  I would, however, take this opportunity to remind 
Barclays of its obligations to treat those in financial difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. It follows that I dont uphold this part of her complaint. 
ProfitiX
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that ProfitiX isnt a legitimate trading business. But 
for the sake of completeness, I have nevertheless considered this. 
As the investigator pointed out, in 2018 binary option, forex and CFD traders operating in the 
UK were required to be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). ProfitiX were 
not, even though it ought to have been. In February 2020, the FCA had published an alert 
about ProfitiX stating it was operating in the UK without being authorised. There were also 
several reports in the public domain that it had scammed people out of their money. 
I have also come across ProfitiX in other cases where complainants have alleged a scam. 
And Im aware from those cases that ProfitiXs documentation indicated it was regulated in 
another jurisdiction; but research had shown it actually wasnt. Im satisfied this leads me to 
conclude ProfitiX was more likely than not to be a scam. 
Should Barclays have intervened in Ms Cs payments to ProfitiX
Under the Payment Services Regulations, a bank or payment services provider must 
execute properly authorised transactions without undue delay. There isnt any disagreement 
that Ms C carried out and authorised all of the transactions in dispute using her card and 
security credentials. I do understand that her authorisation was given in the context of her 
investing but it nevertheless remains the payments were authorised in accordance with the 
applicable legislation.  And the investigator was right when she explained that under the 
regulations and in accordance with banks terms and conditions, Ms C is initially presumed 
liable for the loss. 
However, as Ms C is well aware, there is a duty on banks to protect customers against the 
risk of financial loss due to fraud or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard 
against money laundering. This was explained by our investigator and I think Ms C has 
come across this in other decisions on our website, as she has quoted extracts.  
And our approach of expecting banks to have been monitoring accounts to counter various 
risks; have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its 
customers are at risk of fraud, and in some situations, make additional checks before 
processing payments or declining them altogether, takes account of the provisions of the BSI 
PAS 17271:2017 and the good industry practice that was based upon. None of Ms Cs payments to ProfitiX were made directly to it, but through cryptocurrency 
exchanges. Thats important as Barclays wouldnt have known, simply from executing the 
card payments, that that was where the transactions would ultimately end up. 
Ms C has referred to the BSI PAS provisions and highlighted the below as relevant to her 
spending to show the transactions ought to have flagged as suspicious:
Sudden increase in spending
Transfers to other accounts
Sudden changes to the operation of the account; a withdrawal or payment for 
a large amount
A payment or series of payments to a new payee
Financial activity that matches a known method of fraud. 
Ms C paid her first payment via a crypto exchange from her current account on 21 February 
2020 for £21,000. I agree this is a payment for a large amount. But it doesnt follow the 
payment ought to have flagged as suspicious.  By the time of this payment, Ms C had made 
payments in excess of £175,000 to Maxigrid, £100,000 of that in one day, over four 
transactions. In the context of the operation of her account, sending £21,000 was neither 
unusually large, nor was it a sudden change to its operation. I fully accept the payment was 
to a new payee and that sending money to a crypto exchange could match a known method 
of fraud.  But I do need to balance that with the fact that new payees are set up by bank 
customers thousands of times a day. And buying cryptocurrency whilst being a known 
method off fraud, is also a legitimate trading/investment proposition. Im therefore not 
persuaded Barclays ought to have intervened at this point. 
I have considered the remaining transactions that Mrs C sent to ProfitiX via the crypto 
exchanges. And I can see that she uses several different exchanges between February and 
June 2020 to make these payments. But the majority of these payments are for less than 
£5,000 (although I accept there are sometimes multiple transactions in one day). And 
throughout March and April these are interspersed with Ms Cs, often larger payments, to 
Maxigrid. 
Overall, Im not persuaded the payments were so unusual or so uncharacteristic, given her 
investment into Maxigrid, that Barclays ought to have intervened. 
But even if Im wrong about that, I dont believe an intervention would have stopped Ms C 
from making payments. If we think a bank ought to have intervened, wed expect it to ask 
reasonably probing questions to understand what is happening. And if it believes its 
customer is at risk of financial loss due to fraud, we expect it to provide education around 
what a customer can do to protect themselves or provide a fraud warning. The main 
education/warning suggestions we would expect the bank to give is to ensure a customer is 
dealing with a legitimate business and so would recommend they carry out research to 
establish that - it might recommend checking the FCA register or going through a financial 
adviser. A bank is not required to carry out those steps for its customer. 
On 20 February 2020, the FCA had published a warning about ProfitiX on its website. The 
warning said:
We believe this firm may be providing financial services or products within the
UK without our authorisation. Find out why you should be wary of dealing with 
this unauthorised firm and how to protect yourself.Almost all firms and individuals offering, promoting or selling financial services or 
products in the UK have to authorised or registered by us. 
This firm is not authorised by us and is targeting people in the UK. You will not have 
access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or be protected by the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), so you are unlikely to get your money back 
if things go wrong. 
Ms C has told us she carried out her research and checked if ProfitiX was regulated, as she 
did for Maxigrid. She explained she came across the cautionary note for ProfitiX and raised 
this with the first representative she had with it. She says:
he acknowledged this and told me that ProfitiX does not possess a license with the 
FCA nor did they claim to have one. He continued to relay to me that the FCA were 
corrupt and bias against small businesses like ProfitiX because they are not able to 
pay money to the FCA. 
Ms C says she found him very persuasive. But it seems to me that Ms C chose to place her 
trust in someone she barely knew rather than rely on a warning provided by the very 
institution the UK government put in place to oversee financial services regulation and 
provide consumer protection. Its hard to see how a recommendation from Barclays to check 
whether the business was authorised would have made any difference, given Ms C was 
already aware of the warning and chose to disregard it. 
This also means that I dont find Ms Cs argument that she would have been alarmed about 
the risk she was about to undertake, had she been told she wouldnt have recourse to 
compensation as the business was based outside the UK, persuasive. The FCA provided 
her with that very information about ProfitiX and yet she chose to go ahead. Im not 
persuaded Barclays providing the same information would have elicited a different response. 
Im also aware that Ms C had the availability of a financial adviser as she had existing 
investments held with a UK provider (Im considering a separate complaint about them). Yet 
she didnt discuss this investment opportunity with ProfitiX (or Maxigrid) with them at all. And 
in a separate complaint against another party, Ms C explained I did not know, and through 
the exercise of due diligence could not have discovered, the fraud the was being perpetrated 
upon myself by the Company [ProfitiX]. 
Barclays would only have been required to advise Ms C on the steps she could have taken 
to ensure she was dealing with a legitimate company  that is, advise on due diligence. 
Given Ms Cs own comments that she couldnt have discovered the fraud, even if I agreed 
that Barclays ought to have intervened  which I make clear here I dont  I dont think that 
would have made a difference for the reasons given. 
The chargeback
Ms C asked Barclays to chargeback the payments to Maxigrid and ProfitiX.  
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Visa. It 
arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able 
to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  which are set by Visa  and there are only limited grounds on which a 
chargeback can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed 
invalid. 
Reason code 13.3 would have required Ms C to provide written documentation to confirm that a specific amount of profit would be made by Maxigrid and if this did not happen, 
then this would be considered as not as described and the card issuer could use 13.3. 
However for this to be valid, an actual profit amount had to be described in the written 
documentation, not just a reference to a profit. So Barclays couldnt have used that 
reason code to chargeback any transactions as Ms C didnt present such evidence. The 
reason code that has a provision specifically for investment trading disputes is 13.5. And 
that reason code only allowed for:
Investment products or services (for example: binary options of foreign exchange 
trading), where the Merchant refuses to allow the Cardholder to withdraw 
available balances
Ms C couldnt have raised a chargeback for all of the transactions she had made  she 
was only entitled to chargeback for the withdrawal of an available balance the merchant 
had refused. But Ms Cs reason for requesting a chargeback was because she had been 
scammed, not because Maxigrid or ProfitiX hadnt allowed her to withdraw an available 
balance. 
Nevertheless Barclays did raise a chargeback for the majority of the Maxigrid 
transactions (less some that fell outside of Visas time limits). And that was defended 
because evidence hadnt been provided of an available balance to withdraw. It seems to 
me that Ms C wouldnt have been able to provide the evidence needed. Thats because 
Maxigrid allowed her to withdraw the final balance on the account on 12 May 2020  
being £18,442.49 and had allowed previous withdrawals on the account. So a 
chargeback on the basis of the merchant refusing a withdrawal was bound to fail. 
Ms C has referred to her request to withdraw around £135,000 in February 2020 but she 
was persuaded not to, as it would affect the trading strategy, as evidence that a 
chargeback should have been raised. But as found above, one was in fact raised.  That 
she decided not to continue with a withdrawal request because she had been persuaded 
out of it, wouldnt be a valid chargeback ground nor mean that Barclays ought to have 
pursued the chargeback further once it had been defended.
When Ms C raised the chargeback a temporary credit was placed into her account of 
£275,999. This is standard practice for a chargeback as its never certain that it will be 
successful. Ms C says she was never told it was temporary. And Barclays admits that it 
didnt explain this. Im surprised this was never explained to Ms C by the lawyer that sent 
the letter on her behalf requesting the chargeback be raised. 
Nevertheless, this is something that I think Barclays ought to have explained. But its hard 
to see how Ms Cs position would be any different had it done so. Ms C has told us she 
used the money to pay off some of the debt she had got herself into, raising funds for the 
investment. If she had been told the credit was temporary, and not used that money, she 
would still have had those debts to repay.  By paying them off, Ms C has simply replaced 
a debt to other parties with a debt to Barclays, so her position in reality is no different to 
what it otherwise would have been. 
Im also mindful that Ms C also used some of the funds to send further payments to 
ProfitiX. But this was at a time when she already thought it was scamming her because of 
her experience with Maxigrid. And things had turned nasty with both parties threatening 
legal action against each other. Although Ms C says she had been told she was tied into 
a contract with ProfitiX, Ive havent seen any evidence that she asked to see those 
contracts to check whether that was true. And even if she had, given she had already 
spoken with a lawyer about Maxigrid and raised a chargeback through her bank, Im 
surprised she didnt let either of those parties know of her concerns or what was happening. Had she done so and acted on her concerns as I think she ought to have 
done, further losses could have been prevented. 
Ms C also raised a chargeback for the payments in relation to ProfitiX. However, all of 
those payments were made to crypto exchanges. The service they provided was to 
change Ms Cs payments into crypto currency. As that service was provided, any 
chargeback raised in relation to those was also likely to fail. 
For the reasons given, Im not persuaded Barclays needs to take any further action in 
relation to the chargebacks.    
Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything wrong such that I would make an 
award against it. I know this will be an extremely difficult decision for Ms C to receive. I 
would urge her to get the help and support she needs to go forward and I know she is 
already aware of various organisations that can provide this. 
Finally, I note that Ms C did try to complain to CySEC about Maxigrid. I understand the 
complaint didnt proceed as Ms C started legal proceedings. But I understand those legal 
proceedings didnt actually take place. I dont know if that means Ms C can resurrect her 
complaint, but she could contact CySEC to find out what her options are. 
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman