DRN-3022947
The complaint
Ms K has complained about information recorded on her credit file by Prestige Finance 
Limited in relation to a missed payment on her secured loan account. To settle the complaint 
Ms K would like the marker removed.
What happened
Ms K had a secured loan with Prestige taken out in January 2014 and, I understand, repaid 
in June/July 2020.
In February 2020 Ms Ks direct debit failed, as a result of which Prestige added a late 
payment marker to Ms Ks credit file. Ms K complained about this, saying that Prestige 
should not have done this given the measures that had been put in place for payment 
holidays during the pandemic.
In its final response letter, Prestige clarified that the pandemic payment holiday provisions 
had not started until March 2020 (and Prestige ultimately granted Ms K a three-month 
payment holiday). Prestige said the marker added to the credit file in February 2020 had 
been added correctly and it wasnt able to remove it.
Ms K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She was satisfied that the marker on the file was correct and that Prestige was 
required to record accurate information about Ms Ks payment history.
Ms K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint, and my reasons for doing so are broadly 
the same as the investigators.  
Prestige is under an obligation to provide credit reference agencies with accurate information 
about the payment histories on its customers accounts. Ms Ks direct debit failed in 
February 2020, and Prestiges records show that Ms K didnt contact Prestige about this until 
16 March 2020, when she explained she was in financial difficulty, following which a three-
month payment holiday was agreed, in line with the guidelines put in place for the pandemic. 
However, there had been no contact nor any explanation from Ms K about the February 
2020 missed payment, and so there was no opportunity for Prestige to help Ms K in relation 
to that payment. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Prestige was entitled to treat this as a 
missed payment. I appreciate that Ms K was in a difficult situation, but Prestige is required to 
provide accurate information to the agencies. In the circumstances, Im satisfied Prestige 
hasnt done anything wrong in reporting the missed payment on Ms Ks credit file.
My final decision
I know Ms K will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman