DRN-4056806
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Paymentshield Ltd (PS) did not send him annual renewals reminding 
him he had PPI. Mr N is also unhappy with the lack of and quality of responses from PS. 
Background 
Mr N says he moved out of his mortgaged property sometime in 2016 to live at his parents 
home but, as he didnt remember he had PPI, he did not cancel it. He has continued to pay 
the premiums on the policy. 
Mr N says he contacted PS in early 2021 to ask for details of the PPI and remains unhappy 
with the length of time it took PS to respond to him. He also feels PS didnt fully respond to 
his enquiry. He eventually raised a complaint about his concerns. 
PS issued a final response in July 2022 explaining that, as he moved out of the property, 
and says he didnt move into another mortgaged property until 2019, it was prepared to 
refund the premiums on receipt of certain documents evidencing his circumstances as set 
out on PSs call with Mr N. From PSs call notes, I can see it requested a copy of the tenancy 
agreement of the original property, and a copy of the address part of his bank statement 
showing he lived at his parents address, and documentary evidence that his parents owned 
the house he moved into. However, via an email of the 14 July 2022, PS only asked for a 
copy of his tenancy agreement and a mortgage redemption document. 
The final response further explained that the PPI was transferrable and if hed moved into 
another property with which he had a mortgage, the PPI would be transferred over to that 
property so he could instead keep the PPI in place to cover any secondary mortgage. But he 
would then not be entitled to any refunds if the policy is to be kept in place rather than 
cancelled. 
PS also said that annual reviews were, in all likelihood, sent out regularly until 2016, when 
the document was returned undelivered  and a suppression was placed on the account. PS 
no longer retains records of any documents sent prior to 2020 but has said this is the only 
note on his record, indicating prior to 2016, annual reviews would have been sent. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr N referred the matter to this service. Mr N says he never 
received documents prior to 2016, asserting the last he recalls receiving anything in relation 
to the PPI was around 2010 (but this was a vague recollection and he believes PS stopped 
sending documents even earlier than this date). He felt, if PS had sent regular documents, 
he would have cancelled the PPI when he informed his mortgage provider about the change 
in his circumstances. He added that he has spoken to his tenants and they said they had not 
returned any documents, and he had, in fact, regularly collected his mail from these tenants. 
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ns complaint. He felt that PS had explained why annual 
reviews were not sent from 2016 onwards and that a refund of the premiums offered by PS 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint. He didnt agree that anything further was warranted. 
Mr N remained unhappy saying if PS had sent him the reminders, then he would have 
cancelled the PPI, and not paid the premiums. As he had been deprived of the sums hed 
continued to pay for an invalid policy, he felt PS should also pay him interest on the 
premiums hed paid. He also remained unhappy with what he felt were poor communication 
practices on the part of PS. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me.
 
In my provisional decision of 15 March 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. PS didnt make any further comments. Mr N said he would 
abide by the provisional decisions but added that due to changes in technology, he still felt 
businesses could and should do more to keep consumers updated on what it is they are 
paying for. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
While Ive provisionally decided Mr Ns complaint should be upheld, I think PSs offer of a 
refund of premiums, subject to receiving certain documentary evidence, is a fair way to 
resolve the complaint and I dont intend it to ask it to refund any interest on those premiums. 
However, I do think PSs communications could have been better, so I intend to recommend 
some compensation for Mr N to recognise the inconvenience he has suffered.  
Cancellation and refund of premiums 
When assessing a complaint of this nature, I must have regard to the obligations on financial 
businesses and consumers. After a policy has been sold, the onus is generally on 
consumers to review it to make sure it still meets their needs, to amend it if different (or more 
extensive cover) is required, or to cancel it if it is no longer required. There is no obligation 
on PS to review Mr Ns circumstances and the PPI to ensure it continued to meet his needs. 
I have gone on to look at the terms of Mr Ns PPI policy and note the following.
 
Your eligibility for cover or the monthly benefit paid during a period of claim under this policy
may change if your personal circumstances change. If this happens or is likely to happen 
you should call the Paymentshield Customer Helpline to discuss the changes. This would 
include for example:
 You change your mortgage agreement with your existing lender or to another lender.
 You and your immediate family no longer reside at the mortgaged property.
As noted above, generally it is the responsibility of consumers to check and decide if a PPI 
policy meets their needs and to cancel it if it doesnt. This is also in line with the policy terms 
Mr N agreed to when he took out the PPI and would have been sent when the policy was 
first set up (as this is generally standard practice on the sale of the policy). This means it 
was up to Mr N to contact PS and advise it of his updated circumstances and cancel the PPI. 
So to begin with, I would clarify, that its not for PS to check in with consumers to ensure 
policies continue to meet their needs after a policy has been sold. Indeed it seems Mr N is 
aware that he should have cancelled the policy, but his complaint is that, if he had been reminded of one being in place, with regular information from PS, then he would have done 
so. 
We do expect businesses to send annual reminders to consumers and PS says this was 
done prior to 2016. Although it cant provide copies of the documents sent to him prior to 
2020, its records indicate a suppression was only placed on his file after 2016 when post 
was returned. 
Bearing in mind that this is usually an annual, automated process, Ive got no reason to 
doubt that annual reviews were sent prior to 2016. While I appreciate PS cant provide 
copies of such documents, businesses are not expected to keep copies of documents 
indefinitely. And while I have thought carefully about Mr Ns comments regarding the 
returned post, I dont see why PS would make a note that post had been returned in 2016 
(the first year after the property was tenanted) and suppress further documents unless this 
had actually happened.
It is also the responsibility of consumers to update their correspondence address to ensure 
business are able to continue to contact them and send them the documents in a timely 
manner. It is not for PS to try to locate consumers after post is returned undeliverable. 
I can see Mr N contacted PS in 2021 regarding this PPI and an annual review was sent to 
him in January 2022  in line with PSs usual process. So Ive got no reason to doubt that, as 
PS says, unless something had gone wrong (such as returned post in 2016), annual reviews 
were likely sent in line with its usual processes. 
I would add that it remained Mr Ns responsibility to review his policy and circumstances and 
cancel the PPI or at least contact PS to discuss his circumstances with it. I appreciate Mr N 
forgot he had the PPI  and can understand how that happened on a long-term product like 
PPI. I understand it was taken out a significant number of years ago  which is why renewals 
are sent. However, the obligation to review and cancel the policy does not shift to PS even if 
it did fail to send renewals and this would not entitle him to a refund. As explained above, I 
also dont think theres sufficient evidence here that PS failed to send renewals until 2016, 
when a suppression was placed on his account - and from what I can see this was done for 
valid reasons. 
Overall, I havent seen enough evidence that it was PSs fallings that led to the policy 
remaining in place. 
However, while I have found that the policy remaining in place wasnt mainly caused by 
failings on the part of PS, having looked at the policy, it does seem that the cover would 
likely end if Mr N moved out of the mortgaged property and didnt move into another property 
with which he held a mortgage.  
The policy says: 
The cover provided by this policy and all monthly benefit payments may end immediately, if 
any of the following happen:
 Your mortgage agreement is repaid early or ceases and is not replaced.
 When you and your immediate family no longer reside at the property for which your 
mortgage agreement is held.
The policy document further explains This policy has been designed to be transferable if you move your mortgage agreement to 
another lender, whether you move home or not. If you need to make a change to your cover 
please call the Paymentshield Customer Helpline. 
If your mortgage agreement is repaid and not replaced, the cover provided by this policy will 
end and you should call the helpline number to cancel the cover. Please also refer to the 
When Does Your Policy End section of this policy.
It does look like Mr Ns policy will only end if, when he moved out of his mortgaged home, he 
didnt move into another property with which he held a mortgage. If he rented his property 
out but moved into another property with which he had a mortgage (therefore replaced the 
mortgage), then the PPI would be transferred to that mortgage. If hed made a claim, PS 
would likely be under an obligation under the policy terms to provide cover  and would 
therefore remain on risk of paying claims.
I dont think its fair for PS to retain the premiums Mr N paid if it was no longer on risk to pay 
any claims. However if PS remained on risk, and the policy was valid then I dont think a 
refund of premiums is due. 
I also think its fair for PS to ask Mr N to substantiate his claims that the original property with 
which he took out the PPI was rented out (which he seems to have already done), and that 
the property he moved into was not a property with which he held a mortgage. This is to 
ensure that PS was not at risk of paying claims related to any mortgages related to the 
second property before refunding the premiums. 
Consequently, I think PSs offer to refund the premiums paid on receipt of the evidence 
requested is a fair way to resolve the complaint. I can see Mr N has now sent a copy of his 
tenancy agreement and his mortgage redemption evidence to PS (which our adjudicator has 
also sent to PS). But PS has asked for further evidence to verify that Mr N did not hold a 
mortgage at the address he moved into after moving out of his own home (I understand Mr N 
says he moved in with his parents). 
So, overall, I think PSs offer to refund the premiums from when Mr N moved out of the 
property, on receipt of evidence of his circumstances, is a fair way to resolve the complaint.  
Ive considered Mr Ns request for interest on the premiums. However, as explained above, 
Im not satisfied that the policy remained in place due to errors on the part of PS. Interest is 
usually offered where consumers are deprived of money due to errors on the part of a 
business. So I do not think PS needs to pay interest on these amounts. 
Communication 
Ive thought about Mr Ns unhappiness with PSs responses from when Mr N first raised his 
concerns in 2021. I can see a copy of a letter sent by Mr N on 9 September 2021 requesting 
information about the PPI. Mr N says hed contacted PS sooner and while I havent seen 
copies of those letters, this letter refers to earlier correspondence from April and July 2021. I 
also can see there has been further correspondence between Mr N and PS since then to 
obtain basic information about this policy and it has taken some time for Mr N to get 
everything that he needs to make a decision about the policy. I have no doubt that this would 
have caused Mr N some inconvenience. 
I can also see that PSs communications regarding the evidence required to enable him to 
cancel the policy and obtain a refund could have been set out more clearly. The final 
response did not set this out at all but simply referred to an earlier call  and the email only 
set out part of what was needed. PS is the expert on its policy so I think it ought to have 
made clear exactly what was needed so Mr N could have gathered this information in a timely manner. I can understand his frustration that after providing what was needed, PS 
came back to request further evidence. 
While I understand this evidence is likely needed by PS to satisfy itself that it was no longer 
on risk of paying any claims after Mr N moved out of the property, it should have been 
requested more promptly and clearly. 
Overall, I think the correspondence sent by PS could have been more thorough which would 
have resulted in this issue being resolved much sooner. Im also satisfied this caused Mr N 
avoidable frustration and inconvenience. So I think PS should pay Mr N £150 compensation 
for the inconvenience he has suffered in trying to resolve this matter. This should be paid 
irrespective of Mr Ns decision to either cancel the policy and provide the evidence needed 
to obtain a refund or deciding to keep the PPI in place to cover any existing mortgage 
without a refund of the premiums.  
I understand Mr N wishes PS to review its systems, practices, and processes to ensure 
consumers receive better communication going forward. I do appreciate his concerns but Im 
afraid this service is not a regulator  and our powers are limited to deciding complaints from 
individual complainants and their experience and making orders to put matters right in that 
specific complaint. It is the job of the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority, to review a 
businesss overall systems and practices  but they may not respond to individual 
complainants. 
Putting things right 
Overall, I think PSs offer of to refund the premiums paid since Mr N moved out of the 
property is fair. On receipt of the requested evidence, PS should refund the 
premiums.
PS should also pay to Mr N £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
As explained by PS, Mr N can alternatively keep the PPI in place to cover his existing 
mortgage, but he would not be entitled to a refund. Mr N should let us know if he would 
prefer this option.
Further submissions 
I appreciate Mr Ns view that he feels businesses should do more to remind consumers of 
what products they have and what theyre paying for. But as Ive explained above, concerns 
about wider systems and practices are for the regulator to consider. Regarding Mr Ns 
specific complaint, Ive already agreed that PSs communication could have been better and 
have ordered compensation of £150 to be paid to recognise the inconvenience he has 
suffered. 
Regarding the refund of his premiums, in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I 
find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So 
my view regarding the refund of his premiums remains unchanged from that set out in my 
provisional decision for the same reasons.Putting things right 
Overall, I think PSs offer of to refund the premiums paid since Mr N moved out of the 
property is fair. On receipt of the requested evidence, PS should refund the 
premiums.
PS should also pay to Mr N £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience on 
acceptance of my final decision. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Paymentshield Ltd should put things right 
in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman