DRN-4487418
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the way One Insurance Limited settled a claim she made on her car 
insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs K contacted One Insurance to say her car had been damage in an 
accident and she said she wanted to claim for the damage to her car from her car insurance 
policy. One Insurance asked her to provide photos of the damage which she did. Following 
this it said it would settle the claim by paying the cars market value less her excess of £450. 
And it valued the car at £9,899.
Mrs K didnt agree with One Insurances valuation as she said this left her still owing around 
£2,400 on the car finance agreement. She was also unhappy it didnt provide her with a 
courtesy car.
One Insurance agreed it had undervalued the car and increased the valuation to £11,300. It 
further explained that this valuation was lower because it had deducted £938 as it said the 
car had some pre-accident damage. It also said Mrs K wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. But 
it agreed it had caused some avoidable distress and convenience and offered £200 in 
compensation.
Mrs K didnt agree with One Insurances response as she said the car was in excellent 
condition before the accident. And she provided a video which she said supported this. So 
she said any damage must have happened in the accident or while the car was in One 
Insurances possession.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
There are two issues for me to consider in this decision:
1. One Insurances valuation of the car; and
2. Was Mrs K entitled to a courtesy car?
I shall consider each point separately.
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ks policy, One Insurance has to pay her the market value of 
the car, less her excess.
One Insurance has valued Mrs Ks car at £11,300. Its said its valued this by reviewing two 
industry valuation guides. Its also reduced the valuation by £938 as it says the car had pre-
accident damage. Mrs K doesnt think this valuation is fair because shes adamant the car 
wasnt damaged before the accident.
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so as these are generally based 
on similar cars for sale. But One Insurance only used two guides to assess the valuation, 
which I dont think was sufficient. So Ive thought about whether Mrs K has lost out as a 
result of this.
This Service has obtained valuations from two further guides. The four valuations are 
£11,900, £12,576, £12,616 and £12,795. I think the lower figure of £11,900 is out of line of 
the others as the other three are all within around £200 so Ive discounted it. One Insurance 
had a base valuation of £12,238 (before deducting for pre-accident damage). This is out of 
line with the valuation guides and I think a fairer base valuation would be £12,660. However, 
I also need to think about whether it was fair for One Insurance to reduce the valuation due 
to pre-accident damage and, if so, whether the amount it reduced the value by was fair.
One Insurance says there was damage to the door. Its provided photographs of this. Mrs K 
disputes there was damage before the accident so she thinks that damage must have 
happened either during the accident or while in the garages possession. But, Ive looked at 
the photographs and Im not persuaded thats likely. I think its most likely that the damage to 
the doors did happen before the accident. And I think its fair for One Insurance to say this 
would have had an impact on the cars valuation.
One Insurance has said its deducted £938 because it says this was the amount it estimated 
it would cost to fix the damage. But the question for me to ask isnt how much it would cost 
to fix the damage, but how much the damage would impact the cars market value. Im not 
persuaded the value would reduce by the full repair value and generally Id consider a fairer 
reduction would be around 50% of the repair cost. So I think One Insurance should have 
deducted around £420 to reflect the pre-accident damage on the car.
So, taking everything into consideration, I dont think One Insurance has valued Mrs Ks car 
fairly. And I think a fairer valuation is £12,240  i.e. it should pay an additional £940. 
Courtesy car
I note Mrs K is unhappy that she wasnt given a courtesy car. But the terms of the insurance 
policy clearly sets out that One Insurance isnt required to provide a courtesy car where it 
deems the car a total loss. I can acknowledge the difficulties not having a car caused Mrs K, 
but she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. So I dont think One Insurance acted unreasonably 
in this regard. However, I do think One Insurance should have settled the claim quicker. In 
particular I find the way it valued the car  by offering an initial settlement over £2,000 less 
than the car was worth  to not have been an acceptable way to handle the claim. This has 
meant that Mrs K wasnt able to replace the car as quickly as she should have been able to 
do so. This has clearly had an impact on her ability to get to work. I note One Insurance has 
offered £200 in compensation, but I think £300 is fairer.
Both parties responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision and given me nothing further to think 
about, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require One Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. Pay Mrs K a further £940. It should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date of loss 
until she gets it back. If One Insurance Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken 
off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
2. Pay Mrs K £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman