DRN-3977311
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the service Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) 
provided after they were the victims of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Where the circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties, I wont detail them 
again here. Rather, Ill focus on setting out the key reasons for my decision. I hope Mr and 
Mrs L and Virgin Money wont take this as a discourtesy; its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
In short, on 11 January 2022, Mr and Mrs L received a call from someone who they believed 
to be from Virgin Moneys fraud department. They were told their accounts were at risk as 
someone at Virgin Money was selling customer details to scammers. So, in order to keep 
their money safe, Mr and Mrs L were told to transfer £18,000 from their savings account to 
their current account and then to a safe account. The details of the safe account were 
provided by the scammers. 
Mr and Mrs L attempted to do this transfer, but did so in two payments, the first was £15,000 
and the second for £3,000. Virgin Moneys fraud detection system intervened on both 
transactions. As such, Mr and Mrs L were subjected to further security questions prior to the 
funds being released. However, as Mr L was on the line to Virgin Money, the scammers 
were on the other line, coaching Mr and Mrs L on what to say in real time. As such, Mr and 
Mrs L passed the security questions and the funds were released. 
On 20 January 2022, Mr and Mrs L realised they had been victims of a scam and contacted 
Virgin Money. Virgin Money contacted the receiving bank but only £12.76 was left in the 
account. It arranged for this to be credited to Mr and Mrs Ls account. Mr and Mrs L raised a 
complaint, as they felt Virgin Money ought to have done more to protect them. They also 
said the service they had received wasnt satisfactory regarding the call waiting times.
Virgin Money didnt agree. It didnt accept that it ought to be liable for any of the lost 
payments. But did acknowledge the waiting times Mr and Mrs L encountered were 
unacceptable and offered £50 for the distress and inconvenience they suffered due to this. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy. So, they referred their complaint to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, which 
I will go on to explain. Before I do so, I want to acknowledge that I understand my decision 
will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs L. But based on the evidence, I am not persuaded that 
Virgin Money ought to refund the disputed transactions. 
Firstly, I understand that Mr and Mrs L have said they would like their complaint to be 
considered in light of the Contingent Reimbursement Model. Virgin Money signed up to the 
model on 28 February 2022. However, because Mr and Mrs Ls transactions in question 
were prior to 28 February 2022, our service cant consider their complaint in line with the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs L authorised the payments in question. They were duped 
by the scammers into transferring the funds into a fabricated safe account. So, while I 
accept that neither Mr and Mrs L intended for their money to go to the fraudsters, under the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Mr and Mrs L are presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance as the payments were authorised by them. This is unless there is sufficient 
evidence that Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably have done more to protect them. 
For example, by failing to act on clear triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity on an 
account.
Virgin Money does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Virgin money needs to have systems in place 
to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its consumers are at 
risk of fraud (amongst other things). With that in mind, Ive considered whether Virgin Money 
should have considered these payments as being sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
that it ought to have given Virgin Money sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
Virgin Moneys fraud-detection systems intervened on both disputed transactions which Mr 
and Mrs L were trying to execute on 11 January 2022. Virgin Money explained that both 
payments were put on hold and, in order for the payments to go ahead, Mr and Mrs L 
needed to provide certain information before the payments would be released. Therefore, 
I am satisfied that Virgin Money did identify that these payments were unusual, and its fraud 
detection system identified a potential risk.
In order for Virgin Money to be reassured Mr and Mrs L were not falling victim of a scam, it 
spoke to Mr and Mrs L over the phone and asked further questions. This entailed two phone 
calls with Mr and Mrs L on 11 January 2022. However, it is important to note that while Mr L 
was talking to Virgin Money, Mrs L was on the phone to the scammer in real time, who was 
coaching Mr and Mrs L on how to answer the questions.
Having listened to the calls, I am satisfied Mr L was told his payments were flagged for 
further security checks and once the payments were released it was unlikely he would get 
the money back if it turned out to be a scam. Virgin Moneys advisers also asked if he was 
happy to proceed, and Mr L confirmed he was. On the calls Mr L was asked the following: 
Had he received any unusual contact from the bank asking him to transfer the funds 
to a new account or a safe account? Mr L confirmed this wasnt the case.
He was asked if he had been pressured into making the payments. Mr L confirmed 
this wasnt the case.
Mr L was asked what the payment was for and he confirmed he was paying is son-in-
law directly for a wedding venue which he was contributing to.
Mr L was asked was he paying directly to his son-in-laws account and how had he 
received the payment instructions. Mr L confirmed it was his son-in-laws account 
details and he had a verbal discussion with him.
Mr L was asked if anyone had coached him on how to answer the questions 
surrounding the payment and Mr L confirmed that was not the case.Virgin Money says Mr L provided reassurances each time its internal fraud systems were 
flagged. It said he maintained that these were genuine transactions that he had consented 
to. And despite being told he may not get the funds back if it turned out to be a scam, long 
with further questioning and warnings, Mr L wanted to proceed with these payments. 
Having listened to the calls I am minded to agree. Mr L answered the questions confidently 
without hesitation and there was no indication that there was a third party coaching them in 
the background. Although I dont doubt there was, I am simply highlighting Virgin Money 
wouldnt have been aware of this.
I have considered the circumstances of this complaint, and while I am of the opinion 
transferring large sums of money to family members for a wedding is a well-known cover 
story for scams and a new payee was set up on the account, I am satisfied that further 
questioning from Virgin Money, wouldnt have made a difference, I will explain why. The 
funds Mr and Mrs L transferred had come from their savings account to their current 
account. Therefore, their current account hadnt been depleted of funds. Secondly, the very 
nature of savings account is for customers to do just that, save. Therefore, with Mr and Mrs 
Ls plausible explanations (compiled by the scammer) that the funds were being paid directly 
to their son-in law for his wedding, I think its  entirely conceivable that Virgin Money would 
be persuaded the money had been saved for the wedding.
Even if its argued that Virgin Money could have asked further questions, probed Mr and Mrs 
L further or even highlighted that the reason given for them making the payment is a 
common cover story for scammers, I am not persuaded this would have made any difference 
in this particular case. I say this because even though Mr L had been given a cover story 
(which may have been unveiled if probed further) the circumstances of this case are quite 
unique, as the scammer was on another line in real time while Mr L was on the phone to 
Virgin Money. 
So, where as a cover story may be unveiled in some circumstances by further probing, in 
this case as the scammer was on the phone coaching Mr and Mrs L on what to say in real 
time, I think any further probing wouldnt have unveiled the scam as Mr and Mrs L would 
have been told how to answer any further questions. Unlike a break in communication 
between a scammer and a victim  say for when the conversation is interrupted by a 
discussion with the victims genuine banking provider  we know that Mr and Mrs L were not 
afforded a moment away from the fraudsters social engineering techniques here. 
The scammers were very convincing (in Mr and Mrs Ls own words they were completely 
taken in). I therefore have to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs L were persuaded the scammer 
was genuine and in a higher position than the genuine adviser at Virgin Money  which was 
being simultaneously reinforced due to the ongoing presence of the fraudster on the other 
phone line . I find this crucial, as Mr and Mrs L were clearly relying more on the scammers 
advice and counsel, rather than that of Virgin Moneys legitimate bank staff. Therefore, and 
on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied the scammers hold over Mr and Mrs L wouldnt 
have been broken or the fraud revealed by additional questioning. 
I also have to bear in mind that the level and depth of questioning has to be proportionate to 
the situation  I have to consider that Mr and Mrs L should not have been subjected to an 
interrogation by bank staff. Besides that, a wedding is typically a private arrangement and 
certain lines of questioning may have been somewhat inappropriate for bank staff to explore.
Further to that, Mr L was asked if he had received any contact from anyone posing to be the 
bank asking him to transfer money. It also asked him if he was being coached on how to 
answer the questions. So, despite being given ample opportunity to inform Virgin Money that 
he was being coached and there being a natural gateway to provide this information, Mr L did not reveal any information (albeit, I accept that this was due to him being genuinely taken 
in by the scammer and their persuasive instruction). 
In any event, as Mr L wasnt forthcoming with information (even when questioned) it meant 
that Virgin Money were not given critical insight into what was really happening. Therefore, 
even if Virgin Moneys adviser had questioned matters further, I cannot safely say that Mr L 
would have revealed what was really happening. This, accompanied with the plausible cover 
story that the money was being transferred to their son-in-law for a wedding from their 
savings account, leads me to the conclusion  that Virgin Money wouldnt have  been 
reasonably able to make a material difference to Mr and Mrs Ls intention to carry out these 
payments.
I have gone on to consider if Virgin Money took reasonable steps to try and recover the 
funds for Mr and Mrs L. Mr and Mrs L contacted Virgin Money on 20 January 2022 after 
realising they have been victims of a scam. Virgin Money has said it contacted the receiving 
bank on the same day and received a response on 26 January 2022. Unfortunately, the 
majority of the money had already been removed from the receiving account, apart from 
£12.76 which was credited to Mr and Mrs Ls account on 25 February 2022. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied that Virgin Money did try and counter the risk of 
financial harm for the payments made on 11 January 2022. But, as the scam wasnt reported 
until 20 January 2023, I am satisfied that Virgin Money could not reasonably have intervened 
or done more to try to recoup the money from the receiving bank.
Consequently, despite my natural empathy for this cruel scam and the situation Mr and Mrs 
L find themselves in, Im not persuaded Virgin Money taking different actions would have 
prevented the payments being made or the loss that ensued. It follows that I do not consider 
it fair or reasonable to require Virgin Money to do anything beyond what it has already done 
for the complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have also raised a complaint about the lengthy waiting times when trying to get 
in touch with Virgin money, and the overall service provided. While I understand Mr and Mrs 
Ls frustration, Virgin Money has accepted the service wasnt satisfactory and offered £50 to 
put things right. I have considered the offer made and it is in line with what I would have 
asked Virgin Money to offer if it hadnt done so already.
.
Therefore, I wont be asking Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman