DRN-4434352
The complaint
Mr M complains about how U K Insurance Limited [UKI] handled a claim he made under 
his Landlord insurance policy following a leak at a property he owns.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr M owns a number of properties which are rented to tenants. He has a UKI 
landlord policy which provides cover for various risks related to the properties 
including landlord emergency cover. Administration of this cover, including claims 
handling, is delegated to an agent  which Ill refer to as D  and dealt with by it on 
UKIs behalf. 
One of Mr Ms properties experienced a leak and he contacted D to make a claim but 
it was unable to find details of the insured property in its records and, as it was out of 
hours, was unable to check with UKI. So Mr M wasnt able to get the help he needed 
at that time.
He was unable to pursue the issue until UKI reopened on the following Monday and 
he says it took six phone calls before a plumber was sent out to resolve the leak.
Mr M was unhappy with this particularly as a similar thing had happened previously 
when one of the properties experienced an electrical problem, so he complained to 
UKI. It issued a final response and said D was at fault for not having Mr Ms 
properties on its records and he should raise his concerns with D instead. It didnt 
think it had done anything wrong.
Mr M raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
and said that, while D administered the policy and claims handling for UKI, UKI was 
still responsible for the claim and related complaint about its agents actions. She 
awarded £200 compensation for the poor service Mr M had received. But she said Mr 
M had had the benefit of the cover under the policy, albeit he had experienced 
problems when trying to make a claim, and so she didnt think a refund of the 
premiums was appropriate. 
Mr M accepted her findings but UKI disagreed and reiterated its view that it had done 
nothing wrong and fault lay with D. So the complaint has come to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules that govern complaint handling, the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute 
Resolution rules (DISP), require complainants to be customers of the business 
theyre complaining about. In this case, the insurance policy is a contract between 
the policy underwriter, UKI, and Mr M. So it follows Mr M is a customer of UKIs, not 
of Ds.
UKI says D is responsible for the problems Mr M experienced as D handles claims 
on this part of the policy. So, this is the first thing Ive considered.
Ive looked at the policy terms. Under the Business Emergency Assistance Helpline 
section of the policy it clearly states:
oThis helpline is provided on Our behalf by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited.
And elsewhere in the policy it defines Our as U K Insurance Limited. 
So, I dont think it makes a difference whether it was D or UKI that was the cause of 
the problem Mr M experienced when he made contact, because D was acting on 
behalf of UKI as the underwriter of the policy anyway. 
So Im satisfied UKI is ultimately responsible for the problem and this complaint about 
it, irrespective of any commercial arrangement it has with D around the duties it 
performs on UKIs behalf.
Ive then gone on to consider Mr Ms experience when he tried to make the claim 
following the leak.
Mr M called D out of hours and it was unable to find a record of his cover. Its clear 
from the evidence and the internal correspondence between UKI and D there was 
some administrative reason why D couldnt find Mr M on its records. 
As a consequence of this, Mr M was unable to progress with his claim until UKI was 
open again on the following morning and was able to confirm cover was in place. Mr 
M has explained he had to make multiple calls before a plumber was sent. I 
understand why this all would have caused him distress and inconvenience as this 
was the second time hed needed emergency assistance and was unable to access it 
quickly. 
Having taken everything into account, I think UKI let Mr M down here and didnt 
deliver the service he would expect. I have concluded UKI should pay Mr M £200 to 
recognise the impact of its poor service and claim handling.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr M 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman