DRN-1557261
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) recorded a total loss 
against Miss Bs vehicle on The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This was 
despite Miss B withdrawing a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss B had an accident in May 2019, which damaged the side of her vehicle including the 
two passenger side doors. Miss B contacted Admiral the same day to tell it of the incident. It 
asked her to provide photos of the damage, which I understand she did.
Around a week later Admiral told Miss B it had assessed the damage to her vehicle. Admiral 
said it considered that the cost of repairing the damage would be more than the cars market 
value. So the vehicle would be deemed a total loss. Admiral told Miss B that if she accepted 
this assessment, she would be provided with a cash payment for the market value of the car, 
less her policy excess of £550. Or, if Miss B wanted to keep the vehicle, it would deduct the 
salvage value of the car from the settlement being provided to her. 
Following this, Miss B authorised a representative to assist her in the claim with Admiral.
Miss Bs representative spoke with Admiral and it confirmed what it had already told Miss B. 
Admiral reiterated that from reviewing the photos of the damage it felt the repairs would cost 
more than the market value of the car. And because of this it had decided to write-off the 
vehicle. Admiral explained the vehicle would be classed as a category N write off (repairable 
as there had been no structural damage). 
Miss Bs representative raised a concern that Miss B didnt want the car to have a label of 
being written-off because of a what they considered to be a theoretical assessment of the 
damage.
Miss Bs representative and Admiral agreed that the repair cost could be looked at again. 
And it was agreed that Admiral could arrange for the vehicle to be assessed by an approved 
repairer. This would allow Miss B to decide whether to continue with a claim or withdraw it.
The approved repairer submitted its findings to Admiral and confirmed it thought the salvage 
category to be N  non-structural damage. Miss Bs representative was unhappy with this 
assessment as they thought the approved repairer would assess the repair cost of the 
vehicle, by doing more than looking at photos. And they didnt know the approved repairer 
was going to assess the salvage category either. 
Given the position with the claim at this point, Admiral wrote to Miss Bs representative and 
enclosed a copy of the approved repairers estimate. It also provided several options for 
Miss B, in relation to how to progress the loss. It said;
Miss B could arrange for a second assessment through a garage of her choice, and it 
could consider whether this changed its position in respect of the vehicle being a total 
loss;
it could go ahead and process the claim as a total loss, and this would be listed on 
the relevant databases; or
Miss B could withdraw the claim. It said if the claim was withdrawn, the vehicle would 
require a new MOT in order to reinstate the policy and confirm it is in a roadworthy 
condition. The vehicle would also remain on the CUE database and be marked as a 
previous Category N total loss, which may affect its future value.
Miss Bs representative called Admiral in early June 2016 and said that Miss B would never 
have agreed to the assessment being carried out by the approved repairer if she had known 
the assessment would lead to the vehicle still being categorised N - non-structural damage. 
Miss Bs representative said Admiral didnt tell Miss B that if the vehicle was a category N, 
and she decided to keep it, the policy may be cancelled and only reinstated with a new MOT. 
And that there would be administration costs in doing this. Miss Bs representative explained 
they thought there would be no consequences if she withdrew the claim.
Admiral reiterated that Miss B could obtain a second estimate of repairs and it would 
consider amending the total loss decision, if the evidence showed it would in fact have been 
economical to repair the car. It agreed to allow three weeks for the estimate to be completed, 
and for evidence to be provided of the vehicle being roadworthy, before cancelling the policy. 
Admiral confirmed it wouldnt charge any administration costs within this three-week period.
Miss B confirmed the MOT had been completed. Admiral confirmed the vehicle would 
remain covered on the insurance policy until the renewal date. Admiral noted the incident 
would still be reported, even though there was no claim for the vehicle damage, and 
explained, As we have seen images of the vehicle, we need to report the damage to the 
vehicle as being uneconomical to repair to ensure that we are following correct procedures.
Because Miss B remained unhappy with how Admiral had handled the matter, she raised a 
complaint with it. Miss B raised concerns about the number of claims agents who dealt with 
her claim, a general failure to return her telephone calls, emails being sent to her instead of 
her representative, communication by telephone after she requested communication in 
writing, Admiral sending blank letters, and the tone of some of the telephone calls and 
letters. Her concerns also included the complaints she has since raised with this office, 
which are the recording of a total loss on CUE, the cost of an additional MOT she didnt think 
was required and the attempt to impose unfair terms and conditions on her during the claim 
process.
Admiral upheld several concerns and paid Miss B the sum of £320 to recognise the impact 
of the poor service it provided, for example for failing to return calls, and not making it clear 
the fact the car has been noted as a category N would be recorded, even if the claim was 
withdrawn. Admiral did accept it hadnt clearly explained that it wouldnt remove the total loss 
record on CUE because it had an obligation to accurately report this on CUE. And it provided 
an explanation why it considered the MOT was required to confirm the roadworthiness of the 
car before it could be insured. 
Miss B remained unhappy and said it was unfair and spurious for Admiral to record a total 
loss with CUE because it didnt suffer any loss. 
Miss B said Admiral caused her to pay for a MOT on the vehicle, and she still felt this 
wouldnt have been needed if she had the full freedom to withdraw the claim and repair the 
vehicle herself, as Admiral advised in a call with her presentative in May 2019. Miss B said Admiral applied unfair terms and conditions when using the term total loss and 
tried to pressurise her into cancelling her claim by applying additional administration costs 
not contained within its terms and conditions.
After reviewing the evidence provided, our investigator considered Admiral didnt do anything 
wrong and felt it had attempted to resolve the issues in a fair and reasonable way. The 
investigator thought that Admiral didnt threaten to cancel the policy to put pressure on Miss 
B to accept the vehicle would be written-off, nor did it unfairly apply the terms and conditions 
within the policy. The investigator thought that Admiral acted reasonably when requesting a 
new MOT on the vehicle. But did agree that Admiral didnt make it clear enough the category 
N marker would apply whether the claim was withdrawn or not.
Overall, the investigator thought that Admirals payment of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Miss B during the claim was reasonable, and that a payment 
for the cost of Miss Bs telephone calls of £20 was also reasonable.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator and has asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recording of total loss on CUE
Admiral is entitled to assess the damage to the vehicle and decide whether it is 
uneconomical to repair. Section 1 of the insurance policy explains how Admiral will settle a 
claim. Section 1.2 says We will decide how to settle your claim and will eitherpay to repair 
your car or pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. In the same section, 
Admiral make it clear it can decide based on the garage/engineers recommendation 
whether the car is economical to repair or not. In early May 2019, Admiral had reviewed the 
photographs of the damage and an in-house engineer considered the damage to the vehicle 
meant it was uneconomical to repair. 
However, in this case, Admiral did agree to obtain a further estimate from an approved 
repairer, rather than relying on the initial assessment of the damage from photographs. 
When this confirmed the repair cost would be £3,350 against a market value of £1,720, this 
added significant weight to Admirals initial decision it was uneconomical to repair the 
vehicle. So, I think at this stage it had done all it needed to do, to assess the damage and 
explain what would happen next, should the claim continue. 
I understand Miss B is concerned about the CUE marker. And that Miss Bs representative 
said Admiral told him Miss B had an option to withdraw the claim and then repair the vehicle 
privately. And, crucially, that if this happened, no total loss marker would be recorded at the 
CUE. So, Ive listened to this call, to see what happened.
Admiral explained during the call that it was uneconomical to repair the vehicle. Miss Bs 
representative considered this to be unfair as it was based on a theoretical figure, rather 
than an actual cost of repairing it. Miss Bs representative said that if the cost of repair was 
above £550 (the excess), then it would be worth making a claim and it would useful for 
Admiral to complete the repair work.
Admiral offered to obtain an estimate of the repair costs from an approved repairer, with the 
caveat that if Miss B wasnt happy with the estimate, she could withdraw the claim. Or, 
Admiral said, Miss B could obtain a second opinion from an independent repairer that Admiral would pay for. Miss Bs representative agreed for Admiral to arrange an estimate 
from the approved repairer. 
Admiral didnt tell Miss Bs representative that the category N marker would be removed if 
Miss B withdrew the claim. Once Admiral decided the vehicle was uneconomical to repair, 
and there was a potential that it wasnt roadworthy, or could have been unsafe to drive, it 
followed The Code of Practice for the Categorisation of Motor Vehicles September 2017. I 
have reviewed this document and Im satisfied Admiral acted reasonably by following 
standard business practice when it recorded the vehicle as Category N (Repairable Non-
Structure). I say this as it acted in line with the information this document provides around 
how to categorise vehicles. 
Therefore, I think it was fair for Admiral to record a category N marker against the vehicle, 
regardless of whether the claim was made or not. But I agree with Miss B that it wasnt made 
clear that the marker would be placed on any databases, whether the claim was withdrawn 
or not. Miss B has said this would have made a difference to her decision to claim. And I can 
appreciate how upsetting this would have been for her.
It is possible for Admiral to amend a marker it has applied with CUE and I can see Admiral 
offered to consider this if Miss B provided a copy of the invoice for the work completed on 
the vehicle, as that changes the fact the car was technically a total loss. I havent seen this 
has been provided to Admiral, so as it stands, Im satisfied its reasonable for Admiral to 
apply marker as it has done. 
In its response to this complaint, Admiral accepted the case handler didnt manage the call it 
had with Miss Bs representative well, by failing to tell her the category N marker would be 
recorded. However, in its final response, Im satisfied Admiral made a fair offer of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Miss B. It offered an amount of 
£320 in total  and I think this amount reasonably recognises the upset caused to Miss B by 
the lack of information provided. And to apologise for shortcomings in service noted above, 
including the failure to call Miss Bs representative back when agreed. Because Im satisfied 
this amount is fair, I wont be requiring Admiral to pay Miss B any further compensation. 
The cost of the MOT
Miss B says that if she had withdrawn her claim before the approved assessor estimate, 
Admiral wouldnt have recorded a total loss marker against the vehicle, and, therefore she 
wouldnt have been required to pay £47.50 for a MOT.
I have already decided Admiral had assessed the claim as a total loss by early May 2019, 
and it is more likely than not Admiral wouldve recorded it with CUE as category N salvage. 
Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude Admiral would need to be certain the vehicle was 
roadworthy after the repairs had been completed. Miss B had already confirmed the 
passenger side door would not open from the outside, which I think would reasonably have 
been a concern for Admiral.
I can appreciate that Miss B is upset about having to pay for a MOT when one was not due 
for several months. However, in my opinion, it was reasonable for Admiral to ensure the 
vehicle had a valid MOT and was safe to be on the road if the insurance policy was to be 
continued. 
unfair terms and conditions
Miss B says the letter Admiral sent her in June 2019, outlining her options going forward, 
contained a threat of cancellation, and was an attempt to introduce additional costs on cancellation of the policy. Miss B says this was unfair, put pressure on her to ensure the 
policy wasnt cancelled, and it was lucky she obtained a new MOT in time.
I have read this letter and can see it explains, in option 4, that if the claim was withdrawn a 
new MOT policy would be required to add the vehicle back to the insurance policy. I have 
explained why I think it was reasonable for Admiral to take this view.
Im satisfied the letter didnt threaten cancellation. In my opinion, it explained the position to 
Miss B if she withdrew her claim and took back the vehicle, in line with the policy terms 
mentioned below. The Policy document provided by Admiral makes it clear, on page 20, that 
cancellation of the policy will incur administration charges, and that these charges are 
provided both online and within the documents provided at renewal and inception.  
In this case, I can see Admiral agreed to allow Miss B three weeks to get the repairs 
completed privately and provide the MOT so that the policy could be continued. The policy 
wasnt cancelled, and no administration charges were applied. I appreciate that this was a 
tight timescale for Miss B to get the work completed and the MOT passed to Admiral. 
However, I dont consider Admiral applied any undue pressure here. It agreed a reasonable 
extension and it didnt cancel the policy, or cause Miss B to pay any administration fee for 
doing so. I cant agree that the letter Admiral sent in June 2019 was an attempt to introduce 
new costs for Miss B, or that it applied any undue pressure on her.
My final decision
In my opinion Admiral Insurance Company Limited has already paid Miss B the sum of £320 
to settle the complaint and, in all the circumstances of this case, I think it is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman