DRN-2597778
Complaint
Mr V has complained about a guarantor loan UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided to 
him. He says his credit report would have shown he had recent payday loans and his bank 
statements would have shown he had a gambling problem. So UK Credit shouldnt have lent 
to him.
Background to the complaint and my provisional decision of 3 February 2021
UK Credit provided Mr V with a guarantor loan of £6,000.00 in March 2016. The purpose 
recorded for the loan was debt consolidation. This loan had an APR of 37.9% and a 36-
month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £9,479.88 was due to be repaid in 
36 monthly instalments of around £265. As I understand it, an outstanding balance remained 
at the time of Mr Vs complaint.
Mr Vs complaint was initially reviewed by of our adjudicators. He thought that proportionate 
checks wouldnt have shown UK Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr V. So 
he didnt recommend Mr Vs complaint be upheld. Mr V disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at this complaint. 
One of our ombudsmen then reviewed Mr Vs complaint and issued a provisional decision, 
which upheld the complaint and allowed the parties to provide further submissions. This time          
UK Credit disagreed with the proposed resolution. As the ombudsman who issued the 
provisional decision is no longer available to consider Mr Vs complaint, the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
On 3 February 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Vs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice  is set out on our website. And I referred to this when deciding Mr Vs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I thought that there were two overarching 
questions that I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Vs complaint. 
These two questions were:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr V would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr V wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started by considering the first of the questions. 
My consideration of this matter started by explaining UK Credit provided this loan while it 
was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and 
regulations in place required UK Credit to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Vs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr V. In practice this
meant that UK Credit had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr V undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr V. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the guarantor instead of 
Mr V, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit 
is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I explained that there might also be other factors which could influence how detailed a 
proportionate check shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) 
any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
I carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were UK Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?UK Credit said that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr V prior to 
providing him with this loan. It said it also carried out a credit check. Mr V confirmed that he 
was earning around £1,900.00 a month. He confirmed that he was living with his parents, 
paying £50 a week to them for board and had other commitments to childcare costs, a 
mobile phone bill, car costs, entertainment and clothing. 
The credit check UK Credit carried out also showed that Mr V had outstanding balances on 
existing credit. UK Credit says the proceeds of this loan were primarily going to be used to 
clear Mr Vs overdraft and credit card balance. It also says Mr V had more than enough left 
over to make the required monthly loan payments, when his living costs and the monthly 
payments needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the credit search, which werent 
being consolidated by this loan, were deducted from Mr Vs monthly income. 
 
I thought about what UK Credit had said. My response to this matter started by saying that 
simply requesting information from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will 
have carried out a borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably 
repay a loan. The credit check UK Credit carried out indicated that Mr V had a significant 
amount of outstanding credit and that he also had four outstanding payday loans. UK Credit 
says its underwriter was aware of these and deducted them from Mr Vs disposable income. 
While I agreed it was sensible to account for these payments, the number of outstanding 
payday loans did cast doubt on the accuracy of the income and expenditure information 
provided. 
Bearing in mind the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower focused 
check and Mr Vs previous difficulties were apparent, I would have expected UK Credit to 
have taken additional steps to verify that Mr V could take on this additional commitment 
before providing it. So, in this case, bearing in mind the outstanding balances and Mr Vs 
previous payday borrowing, I thought that UK Credit needed to take steps to verify Mr Vs 
income and expenditure instead of relying on a calculation of his monthly disposable income 
which appeared over optimistic. 
Ive saw that UK Credit said it had relied on information from Mr Vs bank and a credit 
reference agency to electronic verify his income. But I couldnt see that UK Credit had any 
contact with Mr Vs bank. And I also couldnt see how a credit reference agency would have 
had information from Mr Vs employer regarding his income. 
Equally I couldnt see anything to suggest that UK Credit took any steps to verify Mr Vs 
living expenses. As I couldnt see that UK Credit did this, or in fact took any other steps to 
address the apparent mismatch between the disposable income calculated and the 
information on the credit file, I didnt think that the checks carried out before Mr V was 
provided with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I couldnt say for sure what proportionate checks would most likely have shown. This meant I 
needed to decide whether it was more likely than not that a reasonable and proportionate 
affordability check wouldve told UK Credit that Mr V wouldve been unable to sustainably 
repay this loan.
Mr V provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances from around the time he 
applied for this loan. He provided us with copies of bank statements from the months leading 
up to his application. I accepted different checks might show different things. And just 
because something showed up in the information Mr V provided at this stage, it didnt mean 
it wouldve shown up in any checks UK Credit mightve carried out at the time.But in the absence of anything else from UK Credit showing what this information would 
have shown, I thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Vs financial circumstances were more 
likely than not to have been at the time.
I was clear in saying that I wasnt looking at Mr Vs bank statements because I thought that 
UK Credit ought to have obtained them before lending to him. I consulted Mr Vs bank 
statements because they were readily available at this stage and they contained the 
information I now needed to take the steps, which I thought that UK Credit ought reasonably 
to have taken, to verify the income and expenditure information Mr V provided.
I carefully considered the information Mr V had provided in light of all of this.
Looking at Mr Vs bank statement in the month prior to loan application I could see that his 
income declaration was broadly correct. And there was nothing on the statement to suggest 
that his declared living costs were inaccurate either. So I was satisfied that a look at Mr Vs 
bank statement would have validated what he declared in his call with UK Credits agent 
during the application process. 
I appreciated that Mr Vs account was overdrawn and that hed taken payday loans. But this 
loan was provided to clear Mr Vs overdraft and he gave an undertaking that his payday 
loans would be settled out of his income, which his disposable income and the information 
on his bank statement suggested he would able to do. As this was Mr Vs first loan with UK 
Credit, these outstanding balances were factored into UK Credits assessment of whether  
Mr V would be able to make his guarantor loan repayments and the indications were that he 
could do so, I didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to continue with the application.
In reaching this conclusion, I kept in mind what Mr V had said about his gambling. I accepted 
that Mr Vs earlier bank statements  certainly around the turn of the year and the early part 
of 2016  did show large payments to gambling companies. But this drastically reduced in 
the period leading up to this application. 
Mr V said he used other credit for his gambling during this period and I agreed this may well 
have been the case. I didnt know why Mr V did this - although I accepted it was possible   
Mr V stopped using his bank account for larger payments to gambling providers because he 
was at the limit of his overdraft, or possibly because he anticipated that he could be asked 
for a bank statement in the event he wished to apply for a loan or any other credit. I thought 
that ultimately only Mr V actually knew the reason why these payments stopped being made 
from his bank account at that stage.
That said, Mr Vs reasons for not using his bank account to make his gambling transactions 
in the lead up to this application didnt matter too much here. I said this because, what I was 
required to decide here was whether UK Credit ought reasonably to have foreseen that Mr V 
may have used the proceeds of this loan for gambling (or some other unsustainable 
purpose). I was satisfied that Mr Vs April bank statement, which didnt show large amounts 
of gambling, would have addressed the questions I think UK Credits initial checks left 
unanswered  namely was Mr Vs income and living expenses (his credit commitments were 
already validated by the credit search) broadly in line with what he declared?  bearing in 
mind this was a first loan Mr V was taking out. 
As this was the case and also bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only 
way for UK Credit to have found this out  it could have obtained payslips, copies of bills etc 
 I was satisfied that proportionate checks wouldnt have extended into obtaining the bank 
statements from earlier in 2016, which would have outlined the true extent of Mr Vs 
gambling. I didnt think that proportionate checks would have extended into requesting the earlier bank statements. Equally there wasnt anything else in the information UK Credit 
gathered  including the phone call Mr V had with UK Credits agent during the application 
process  to suggest that UK Credit ought to have been aware of Mr Vs gambling. 
So having considered all of this, I was satisfied that it wasnt the case UK Credit ought 
reasonably to have foreseen that Mr V may have used the proceeds of this loan for gambling 
(or some other unsustainable purpose).     
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
not have prevented UK Credit from providing Mr B with this guarantor loan. As this was the 
case, I was minded to find that UK Credit didnt unfairly enter into this guarantor loan with  
Mr V. 
Finally, I then went on to consider the second of the overarching questions that I thought 
was relevant to my determination of Mr Vs complaint. I carefully thought about everything 
provided. Having done so, I hadnt seen anything that led me to conclude UK Credit acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V in some other way.  
So I found that UK Credit didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V in some other 
way.  
All of this led to me issuing a provisional decision which found that:
UK Credit didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr V to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr V 
was likely to be able to sustainably repay this loan and so are unlikely to have 
changed UK Credits decision to provide it;
UK Credit didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V in some other way.
These findings left me intending to issue a final decision concluding that UK Credit didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V when providing him with his loan. So I was not 
intending to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
UK Credits response to my provisional decision
UK Credit responded to my provisional decision. Its response said it didnt disagree with the 
conclusion I reached, but it wished to clarify that it verified a minimum amount of £1,900.00 
had been credited into Mr Vs bank account each month. And it relied on this as confirmation 
of Mr Vs income and provided evidence of this check. 
Mr Vs response to my provisional decision
Mr V responded to my provisional decision confirming that he didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. In summary, he said this was because:
He was gambling up until March where he took out a credit card and maxed out a 
limit of £3,100.00. He then gambled a further £90+ plus in the lead up to the loan.
He had taken a large number of payday loans in the months leading up to this 
application. This together with the new credit card he was provided with and the limit increase he had on another meant that it was irresponsible for UK Credit to take his 
word for it that hed consolidate his debts given his history of gambling. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Vs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I remain of the view that there are two 
overarching questions that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Vs 
complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr V would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr V wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about what UK Credit has said about its check on Mr Vs income. It may have 
asked Mr Vs bank to verify that a certain amount of funds went into his account each month. 
But this to me suggests that all credits including deposits from loans or other unsustainable 
sources could be classed as income. So while I accept that UK Credit might have checked 
whether Mr Vs account was in receipt of a certain amount of funds, as there was no 
verification of where these funds came from, Im not necessarily persuaded that this went as 
far as verifying Mr Vs income and employment.
I now turn to Mr Vs comments. I want to be clear in saying that I dont doubt Mr V was 
gambling. And if UK Credit had obtained a few months worth of bank statements from Mr V, 
as he now says it should have done, it might have discovered this. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that UK Credit unfairly provided this loan because it didnt obtain the 
level of information Mr V now says it should or that the complaint should be upheld because 
of this. 
I say this because what I need to decide here is whether reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have led to UK Credit discovering the extent of Mr Vs gambling and so it 
ought reasonably to have foreseen that Mr V may have used the proceeds of this loan to 
gamble. And the key thing here is that I think reasonable and proportionate checks only 
required UK Credit to go as far verifying that Mr Vs normal monthly outgoings were what he 
said they were. Crucially I dont think this required asking Mr Vs bank statements at all. It 
could have asked for bill payments, rent agreements or other evidence of Mr Vs living costs. 
But even if UK Credit had decided to verify Mr Vs normal monthly outgoings with bank 
statements, I think a single months worth of bank statements would have confirmed Mr V 
didnt have much in the way of outgoings and so could quite easily afford to consolidate his 
existing debts with this loan and his salary for the month. And as I explained in my 
provisional decision, it wouldnt have shown the true extent of Mr Vs gambling.In these circumstances, and bearing in mind this was a first loan, it wouldnt be fair, 
reasonable or proportionate to expect UK Credit to have done even more than this  a single 
bank statement, which UK Credit wasnt even required to ask for, would in any event have 
shown Mr V had the means to settle all of the debts hes referred to (which I was fully aware 
of when I issued my final decision) like he said he would. And I dont think that further 
information  and more bank statements  would have been necessary. 
So even if UK Credit had done more to verify Mr Vs expenditure, like I think it ought to have 
done, I dont think it would have been proportionate for it to have gone into the depth of 
check Mr V is now saying it should have, in order to discover his gambling. In these 
circumstances, and while Ive carefully thought about the further points Mr V has made, Ive 
not been persuaded to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 3 
February 2021.
Having carefully considered everything provided and the two overarching questions set out 
earlier in this decision, I find that:
UK Credit didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr V to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay his loan; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr V 
was likely to be able to sustainably repay this loan and so are unlikely to have 
changed UK Credits decision to provide it;
UK Credit didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr V in some other way.
These findings leave me concluding that UK Credit didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr V when providing him with his loan. So Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Although Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint, Id like to remind UK Credit of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance in light of Mr Vs apparent difficulty repaying this loan, 
should it choose to collect payments from him and it be the case hes experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision of 3 February 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman