DRN-3474137
The complaint
Mr O complains that when he applied for a new mortgage rate and further borrowing with 
Godiva Mortgages Limited, it changed the mortgage rate but held up the extra borrowing. He 
said Godiva was waiting for an EPC, but it didnt tell him that, so he lost income.
What happened
Mr O has a buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Godiva. He said he tried to move his existing 
mortgage lending onto a better rate, and take out some extra borrowing to get work done on 
the property. He said he applied for both at the same time, but there was a delay in returning 
the paperwork, so he was told that the offer hed applied for with the additional borrowing 
had lapsed. Mr O said that Godiva must have processed his application for a new rate on the 
existing lending before hed sent in the application. 
Mr O then applied for a different rate for the new borrowing, and on 14 January 2021 Godiva 
asked for more information. That lending was approved, but Mr O then decided to borrow a 
little less. The revised mortgage was also approved, but Mr O said that Godiva didnt release 
the money. He said Godiva made no effort to contact him. And when he chased this, he was 
told that Godiva was waiting for an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC). Mr O said this 
was the first time hed been asked for this. He said that Godiva told him this was in the terms 
and conditions, which it was, but it wasnt referenced in the special conditions. 
Mr O thought he should already have been asked to supply an EPC by this time. He said 
surely he needed one for the new rate on his existing borrowing? He could see no difference 
between further borrowing and taking out a new product. 
Mr O wanted to know why the EPC wasnt mentioned in various letters he was sent during 
the application process, and why Godiva hadnt made any effort to contact him about this. 
Mr O said that Godiva had sent him £75 as a goodwill gesture. But he felt that Godiva was 
responsible for two months of lost rental income. He said hed been unable to pay his 
builder, so the firm prioritised a different job, and he lost rental income.
Godiva said that Mr O took out a BTL mortgage out in 2010. He asked for additional 
borrowing of £20,000 in November 2020, and Godiva offered him a better rate on his 
existing lending at the same time. 
Godiva wanted to stress that new lending, and changes to existing lending, are treated as 
two entirely separate applications. It said when Mr O returned all the paperwork in late 
December, it went to two separate teams. The existing lending team was able to put his 
current mortgage onto a new rate right away, and that took effect from 30 December 2020. 
The application for new lending was sent to a different team, and upon review that team said 
the product Mr O applied for had been withdrawn, so it sent Mr O paperwork for some new 
lending, in on 7 January 2021. Godiva got the completed form back from Mr O on 14 
January 2021. Godiva then instructed a valuer. 
Godiva said that Mr Os two applications, for a new rate on his existing lending, and for new 
lending, were very different applications. Godiva said a rate change on existing lending deals 
with a loan thats already in place. Thats quick and simple. But because its increasing its 
risk with additional borrowing, it needs to go through the full underwriting procedure for this 
type of application. That usually takes longer. 
Godiva got the valuation on 20 January, and wrote to Mr O then. This letter clearly says that 
Godiva will need an acceptable EPC, and that it should retain all the money from the lending 
until it gets this. Godiva also said that its offer, sent on 27 January 2021, again told Mr O 
about the retention and why it was needed. It was in the Mortgage Special Conditions. 
Godiva says it does expect Mr O to read this document carefully. 
Mr O contacted Godiva on 30 January 2021 to amend the lending to £17,000. So Godiva 
sent a new, revised offer, on 5 February 2021. That offer also told Mr O there was a 100% 
retention on the lending. 
Mr O got in touch on 18 February 2021 to say he didnt realise he needed an EPC. He 
provided one the next day, but unfortunately the address on the EPC didnt match the 
property address on the lending, or on the Land Registry. Mr O sent a new EPC on 22 
February 2021. He rang to chase on 24 February 2021, and Godiva expedited the 
processing, so it was able to release the money for him on 25 February. 
Godiva said that it didnt think that anything it had done had caused a void in rental income. 
And it said that Mr O had ended up benefitting from the delays, because the product he 
eventually took out had a lower interest rate. 
Godiva said its letters mentioned a number of times that Mr O needed to provide an EPC. 
But it said it does usually also follow this up directly with customers by phone and letter. It 
didnt do that in this case, so it send him a cheque for £75.00 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that he wouldnt expect 
Godiva to ask for an EPC to set a new interest rate on existing lending. But new lending is 
treated differently. The lender has to satisfy itself that any new borrowing meets its lending 
criteria. And Godiva was entitled to ask for an EPC as part of that. 
Our investigator said that Godiva noted the requirement for an EPC promptly after the 
valuation was done, on 19 January 2021. The offers issued after this did make clear in the 
special conditions section that a full retention was being held until a valid EPC was supplied. 
Our investigator also said that Mr O needed to read those documents in full. 
Our investigator said Godiva had paid Mr O £75, because it does normally contact 
customers about outstanding EPCs, and it didnt do so here. He didnt think Godiva had to 
pay for two months of lost rent, as the information about the EPC was in the offer documents 
and valuation report. He thought the £75 offered did fairly compensate for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr O didnt agree. He wanted us to clarify that if he hadnt asked for extra borrowing, he 
wouldnt have needed to supply an EPC, even though this had been a legal requirement for 
some time. Our investigator said that was right, he didnt think it would be fair for Godiva to 
ask for this when Mr O was only changing rates.
Mr O also said that wed acknowledged there were delays - plural  but we still thought the 
compensation paid by Godiva was enough. Mr O said he lost money every day the flat was empty, and we hadnt even asked how much this was. And Mr O said that the request for the 
EPC was buried in the special conditions small print.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Mr O wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall view on this complaint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, I can see that there were delays in completing Mr Os new lending 
application. But Godiva isnt responsible either for the delay in Mr O returning his first 
application, or for the delay caused because Mr O wanted to change the amount he was 
borrowing. And what Mr O has complained about, is that he wasnt told he needed an EPC. 
Mr O said he should have been told about this as part of the application to change the rate 
on his existing lending. But Godiva is right to say that the application to change the rate on 
existing lending is a very different process to the application for new borrowing. And that isnt 
a choice that Godiva has made, the two applications have to be treated differently. A rate 
change for existing lending is light touch. Godiva doesnt need to go through a full 
application process all over again for this.
But the application for new lending is different, there Godiva does need to make sure that Mr 
O can afford the new lending. In this case, Mr O is paying his mortgage by renting out the 
property, and the application he completed reflects that. So its reasonable that the valuation 
will focus on the rental of the property, and as part of that, an EPC is required.
Mr O said he just wasnt told that Godiva needed an EPC. But I dont think thats right. And I 
dont think that the only information alerting Mr O to a problem was in the small print of his 
mortgage offer.
The valuation was done on 19 January 2021. Godiva was made aware on 20 January that 
there was no EPC for the property. It wrote to Mr O about the valuation on the same day. 
Godiva sent a one-page cover letter, with a two page valuation. The second page of the 
valuation details Essential Repairs and lists the EPC as the single essential repair. It says 
an EPC will be needed, and Godiva should retain the mortgage money until this is provided.
Godiva then followed that up with a mortgage offer. Although Mr O says the need for an EPC 
wasnt drawn to his attention in this letter, the first page of the offer itself said, in bold text, 
that Godiva was going to make a retention of the full amount requested. And the revised 
application Godiva then issued for the reduced amount also said this, in bold, on the first 
page of the offer. I think that ought to have alerted Mr O to an issue with his application.
So I do think Godiva did draw this issue to Mr Os attention, and that it did so promptly once 
it realised there was an issue. I dont think I can reasonably hold it responsible for any delays 
caused because Mr O didnt realise this at the time. 
Although I note that Godiva said it does usually take further steps to make borrowers aware 
of the need for an EPC, and it didnt take those here, I do think thats just a small lapse in 
service. I dont think its a fundamental failure by Godiva, because it had already told Mr O the EPC was needed. And for those reasons, I dont think it would be fair to ask Godiva to 
reimburse Mr O for two months of missed rent. 
Godiva has paid Mr O £75. I know that Mr O will be disappointed, but because I think this 
was only a small lapse in service by Godiva, I do think that payment provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. I dont think Godiva has to do more than this. And that 
means Mr Os complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman