DRN-2821427
The complaint
Mr Bs complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) failed to pay off the 
outstanding finance on his car when it was written off in an accident.
What happened
In 2020, Mr B bought a car, using finance from a company Ill call F.  He bought a motor 
insurance policy from Admiral.
A few days after he bought the car, Mr B had a car accident.  His car was damaged.  So he 
contacted Admiral, who arranged for it to be looked at by one of their approved repairers.
The car was written off.  Admiral assessed its value and sent Mr B a cheque for this amount 
(less his excess and outstanding premium payments).
Mr B contacted Admiral twice to make sure the cheque was for him and shouldnt have been 
sent to the finance company.  Each time Admiral told him it was, because theyd had 
confirmation that the finance had been cleared.  So Mr B put the money towards buying a 
replacement car.
Soon after hed done this, Mr B was contacted by F.  F told him he still owed them money 
and theyd not confirmed to Admiral his finance had been cleared.  So Mr B complained to 
Admiral.
Admiral investigated and found theyd made an error.  Their records show the car was 
subject to two finance agreements  one with F and a second with a different company.  And 
theyd only had confirmation from the second company  not F  that there was no 
outstanding finance.
Admiral acknowledged that Mr B had told them his finance agreement was with F and so 
they shouldve sent the settlement to F not to him.  They apologised for their mistake and 
paid Mr B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused him and £25 towards 
the cost of his calls to them.  And they paid F £1,029  which was the cars salvage value - 
to reduce what Mr B owed F.  But theyd correctly indemnified Mr B and so any further 
negotiation about the finance agreement was a matter for F and Mr B.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought his complaint to us.  He told us hed 
ended up with two finance agreements  which he couldnt afford.  And F were pursuing him 
for the outstanding finance and had sent him a default notice.  He said he wanted Admiral to 
clear what he owed to F, have them get the default notice withdrawn and pay him £1,000 
compensation.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded Admiral didnt have to do any 
more than theyd already done to resolve it.  Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view.  
So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr Bs upset.  He didnt just accept the money Admiral sent him  he 
checked several times that the finance on his car had been cleared before he used it to buy 
a replacement.  So, when F started to chase him for what he owed, he didnt have that 
money available to put towards his debt.
Everyones agreed that Admiral didnt do what they shouldve done and pay the settlement 
to F.  The issue I have to decide is whether what Admiral have done to put that right is 
sufficient.  Or whether  as Mr B wants - they should do more.
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if Admiral had done everything right.  Admiral 
wouldve sent the settlement money to F  meaning Mr B wouldnt have been paid anything.  
But that doesnt mean his debt to F wouldve been cleared.  Ive seen Fs default notice.  And 
that makes it clear the settlement figure was less than the outstanding finance.
So, if everything had happened as it should have, Mr B would still have owed F money  
albeit less than he does now.  Unless hed not replaced his car, hed still have had two 
finance agreements in place.  And its likely that his repayments on a replacement car 
wouldve been higher, because hed not have had a settlement from Admiral to use as the 
down payment. 
All this means Im not satisfied that Mr B has lost out as a result of Admirals mistake  
rather, he has received what hes entitled to, although not in the form he shouldve done.
Because I dont think theres been any financial loss, all thats left is for me to consider 
whether Admiral have done enough to compensate Mr B for the trouble and upset he was 
clearly caused.  Theyve paid him a total of £175.  And theyve reduced what Mr B owes F by 
paying F £1,029.  I think thats a reasonable sum to compensate Mr B  so Im not going to 
direct Admiral do anything more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman