DRN-4227099
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service provided by Brightside Insurance Services Limited (BISL) 
when selling him an insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P owns a property that he lets out. He uses BISL as a broker to obtain insurance for the 
property. In 2022 the policy was due to renew and BISL sent him documents for a new 
policy. However he was unhappy with it due to a high excess for the storm cover. BISL 
therefore offered a different policy which Mr P accepted.
On reading the policy documents he had some concerns about the suitability of the policy. 
He said the contents limit was far too high as was the sum insured for the building. And the 
excess was higher than it had been the year before. He queried this and subsequently made 
a complaint. 
In response to his complaint BISL said Mr P could cancel the insurance policy, receive a full 
refund and it would waive the £75 cancellation fee. It also offered £50 for some delayed 
responses to his emails. 
However Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response. He was also dissatisfied with the 
communication he had received from various staff members at BISL while he had been 
complaining. 
He brought the complaint to this service but our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Our investigator said that as BISL had offered a refund of the policy then this was a fair 
resolution to the complaint. And as the concerns Mr P had about the service hed received 
hadnt been answered by BISL in its final response, then we couldnt look at those issues.  
Mr P didnt agree this was fair and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a large amount of detail in relation to his complaint. As this is an informal 
service, Ive not responded to everything hes raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be key to the outcome. However I want to reassure Mr P that Ive read and 
carefully considered everything hes provided.
BISL had acted as a broker for Mr P for a number of years and the sale of the policies were 
on an advised basis. This means, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys(FCA) Insurance 
Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS), BISL had a responsibility to get an understanding 
of Mr Ps needs and to recommend a suitable insurance product. As well as to provide 
appropriate information at inception and each renewal that is clear and not misleading to 
enable Mr P to make an informed choice.
Mr P has complained that BISL failed to do this on two occasions  with both the first and 
second product it recommended at renewal. 
When Mr P received the first set of documents, he said in his account that he was able to 
clearly identify the increase to the storm excess in the documents provided. And felt this 
made the policy unsuitable so he raised it with BISL. While BISL didnt point out this change 
to the policy details directly, as this was clear on the policy schedule, I think BISL did enough 
to meet its obligations by providing the documents for Mr P to review with this clear 
information contained. Further, once Mr P had explained that this excess meant the policy 
didnt meet his needs, BISL went back to its panel of insurers and provided an alternative 
quote. Which is what Id expect it to do in the circumstances. 
However Mr P also feels that the second policy offered was also unsuitable for his needs. 
Hes said that the sum insured for both contents and buildings was higher than it should 
have been and that the excess was higher than the year before. Ive considered this and I 
dont think this is enough to say BISL didnt meet its obligations as a broker. It provided a 
policy that exceeded the needs of the property. And its explained that this is offered as 
standard by the insurer as a benefit  in order to avoid any issues of underinsurance that 
may occur due to fluctuating prices. While Mr P has expressed concern that this may have 
made the policy more expensive, BISL has explained that this is a standard offering from the 
insurer, rather than something that Mr P would have been charged an additional cost for. I 
therefore think BISL met its obligations to recommend a suitable policy. 
Further BISL provided the policy information to Mr P in advance so that he could review the 
inclusions before it renewed. And provided contact details if he wanted to discuss the policy 
further. So I think Mr P was given enough information for him to check the policy before it 
renewed. 
However, even if I were to say that BISL hadnt met its obligations and provided unclear 
information about the policy, I still wouldnt ask it to do anything more than it has already 
offered. 
Its the role of this service to assess whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably 
when resolving a complaint. And where we find they got something wrong, ensure they do 
enough to put things right in order to put their customer back in the position they would have 
been in if they hadnt.
Here, BISL has offered to refund the full policy premium paid for the year, applying no 
additional broker fees or any applicable cancellation fees. So even if Id found BISL hadnt 
provided enough information or that it was unsuitable for Mr Ps needs, this is what I would 
have directed BISL to do. As this would have allowed Mr P to purchase a different policy 
through an alternative broker without any financial detriment to him. So effectively puts him 
back in the position he would have been in if it had provided a suitable product.  
So even though Ive found BISL has met its obligations under ICOBS, even if I hadnt Id be 
satisfied it had done enough to put things right. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
I note Mr P has expressed his dissatisfaction at how his queries and concerns have been 
handled by BISL. Our investigator has said that we cant consider these issues as they were 
raised after BISL issued its final response to Mr Ps complaint. I can see that Mr P raised 
some of these concerns before the final response was issued, and some continued after, so 
I think we can consider some of these concerns. However this doesnt change the outcome 
of the complaint.
Mr P raised numerous queries and concerns throughout his correspondence with BISL. And while there were some delays to BISL responding to these, from what Ive seen it did provide 
detailed and helpful responses to most. Further, it offered £50 compensation for a delay to 
responding to some of his queries. And I think thats reasonable.
I note one of the main concerns Mr P has raised is that he felt uncertain whether he had any 
policy cover in place for a number of months due to BISL not providing clarity on the policy. 
However I think BISL provided enough information to reassure him that cover was in place. It 
had provided confirmation of the policy renewal, full policy documentation and explanations 
of what the policy covered in response to his queries. So even though it didnt answer this 
question directly, I dont think Mr P would reasonably have been left in doubt that he had 
insurance cover for his property during this time.
For these reasons, Im satisfied BISL has met its obligations as a broker under ICOBS and 
has provided a fair resolution to Mr Ps complaint. I therefore wont ask it to do anything 
further.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman