DRN-3784732
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) wont fully refund the payment he made 
from his Halifax current account as a result of a safe account scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In early December 2021, Mr J was called by someone claiming to be from the fraud team of 
another bank (N)  but who, it transpires, was actually a scammer. He tried to validate the 
call by ringing Ns official number. It seems the scammer tricked him by staying on the line, 
so it appeared as though they had picked up the call to that number. They also sent texts 
from a spoofed bank number and created fake records of a safe account and fraud refund. 
At the scammers behest, Mr J made numerous payments from several bank accounts. Just 
over a week into the scam, he made a £25,000 payment from his Halifax account to what he 
thought was a fictitious account in his stepdaughters name. Shortly after, he realised hed 
been scammed. 
Halifax refunded Mr J half of the payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code 
(CRM code). It said it could have done more to prevent his loss  but he was also partly 
responsible. It also recovered £5.44 from the beneficiary bank. 
Unhappy that he hadnt been refunded in full, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought Mr J ought to have had concerns about what he was being asked to do. 
And he didnt think Mr Js circumstances prevented him from taking steps to protect himself 
from the scam. He didnt think it was fair to expect Halifax to refund Mr J more. 
As Mr J doesnt agree with the investigator, his case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Halifax is a signatory of the CRM code, which requires firms to refund customers who fall 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam (as Mr J has)  unless they can show an 
exception applies. 
Halifax admits its partly at fault as it ought to have intervened with this payment due to it 
appearing out of character. But it has only agreed to refund half of Mr Js loss due to an 
exception in the CRM code which applies if the customer didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing that:
the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; 
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate 
Whether Halifax should refund Mr Js remaining loss, on top of the 50% it has already 
refunded, comes down to whether this exception has been reasonably applied. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied it has been. 
I appreciate why Mr J was initially persuaded by the tactics employed by the scammer. But 
this payment occurred more than a week into the scam, after he had already transferred 
around £100,000 of his own money between his own accounts and then out to external 
payees. 
After spoofing Ns official number, the scammer directed Mr J to download the app 
Telegram so they could communicate predominantly through that. I think that ought to have 
seemed usual to Mr J as thats not how N normally contacts him. 
Although the scammer claimed to work for N, Mr J wasnt just asked to make payments from 
the account he held with N  but from two other bank accounts and one other e-money 
account he held with other firms. He was also directed to set up and make payments in to 
and out of two cryptocurrency wallets. 
Mr J says he didnt find it suspicious that the banks might be working together. But I cant 
see he took any steps to look into whether this was normal, as I think would have been 
reasonable. Especially given that he was not only being asked to use his existing accounts, 
but to set up accounts to purchase and send on cryptocurrency. 
Looking at the external accounts Mr J sent funds to, some looked as though they were in his 
name; some (including this payment) were to an account which Mr J has told us is in the 
name of his stepdaughter; and some were to random names. 
Mr J says the scammer told him theyd opened an account in his name. But theyd also 
sometimes use a random name for the payee accounts. And other times he thinks they used 
a name hed feel comfortable with. I think the fact this was inconsistent ought to have 
appeared suspicious. 
When making these payments, Mr J was told to lie to the banks about what they were for. 
Hes told us he was uncomfortable with this  suggesting he did have some concerns or 
reservations about what he was being told to do. 
The scam was uncovered a couple of days after this payment when Mr Js wife spoke to 
their financial advisor, who told them it sounded like a scam. They went to an N branch to 
check whether the name the scammer had been given was a genuine employee  and were 
told he wasnt. 
Mr J isnt sure whether his wife called the financial advisor or the other way round. But the 
fact she questioned what they were being told to do again suggests some doubts about 
whether it was legitimate. 
Taking all of these factors into consideration, I do think there were enough going on that 
ought to have raised significant doubt in Mr Js mind about what he was being asked to do. 
Particularly bearing in mind how long it went on for and the amount and volume of 
transactions involved. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr J had a reasonable basis for believing what he 
was being asked to do was legitimate by the time of this payment. And so I consider it fair 
that the loss is split between him and Halifax  given its admitted failure to intervene.  
Mr J has also argued that his circumstances made him vulnerable. The CRM code says: 
A customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP 
scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered
If Mr J met the criteria for vulnerability under the CRM code, Id expect Halifax to refund him 
in full regardless of the exception its relied on. Having considered this, Im not persuaded 
Mr Js circumstances meant it was unreasonable to expect him to have protected himself. 
I appreciate what Mr J has told us about his frame of mind when he first received the scam 
call. But he made this payment over a week later. And throughout this time, he was able to 
take some steps to try to protect himself. Such as calling N back on its official number, and 
later visiting a branch to ask N about the alleged employee. 
Whilst Mr J was abroad during some of the scam, he was back in the UK by the time of this 
payment. He was able to follow the scammers instructions and stand up to questioning by 
various banks about the purpose of the payments  involving giving various, quite detailed, 
cover stories about what they were for.
Some of Mr Js testimony also suggests to me that he had doubts about what he was being 
asked to do. For example hes told us he was uncomfortable about being told to lie, and that 
he was watching out for any mistakes. 
Overall Im not persuaded it would be unreasonable to expect Mr J to have protected himself 
against the loss incurred here due to the scam. I therefore dont find that Halifax ought to 
refund him in full under the vulnerability clause of the code. 
Once Halifax was aware of the scam, it did try to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank 
and even managed to retrieve a small amount. Given how quickly funds are generally moved 
on in these types of scams, Im not persuaded Halifax could have reasonably done more to 
recover the remaining loss. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr J, who Im acutely aware has been the victim of 
a cruel and sophisticated scam. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded its fair to 
expect Halifax to take further liability for the loss he incurred as a result. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman