DRN-3991414
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, who Ill call Santander, paid a refund 
into the wrong account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I think £50 compensation is sufficient in the 
circumstances of her complaint, and Im not asking Santander to do any more than that. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When the direct debit was cancelled I dont think Santander had any way of knowing 
Miss Ms new bank details, as Miss M didnt provide those details until several days later. 
So, I dont think they did anything wrong when making the refund to the account the direct 
debits had been coming out of. The direct debit mandate they held suggested the account 
was in Miss Ms name.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Santander to refund that payment again. But I 
do think they made an error here as they misinformed Miss M about the refund and told her 
shed be getting a cheque, on several occasions. Santander should therefore compensate 
Miss M for the distress and inconvenience caused by that error. Having considered the 
circumstances of Miss Ms complaint I think £50 is reasonable.
Putting things right
Santander should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc to pay Miss M £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman