DRN-3382037
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) granted him a 
loan that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr W took out a loan for £1,200 with Everyday Lending. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with the repayments set at £107.28 a month. The total amount to be 
repaid was £2,574.72.
Mr W later complained that Everyday Lending lent to him irresponsibly because the loan was 
unaffordable for him. He said hed been unable to make any payments due to a change in 
his circumstances and was also suffering from mental health issues. He was also unhappy 
with how hed been treated when hed tried to arrange a repayment plan.
Everyday Lending said it had completed affordability checks which it believed were 
reasonable and proportionate. These showed the loan was sustainable as Mr W had 
disposable income. Everyday Lending acknowledged that Mr W had offered to pay £30 a 
month but it said it needed to see his bank statements to fully understand his financial 
situation.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Everyday Lending should have granted Mr W the loan because it didnt look like it was 
sustainable. However, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Everyday Lending to have 
asked Mr W for bank statements as this would help it decide what reduced payment was 
affordable for him to pay each month.
Mr W accepted our investigators view, but he made some further comments about his 
mental health and how Everyday Lending had treated him.
Everyday Lending disagreed with our investigators view. It said its income and expenditure 
calculation had included a buffer. The Everyday Lending loan meant a reduction in Mr Ws 
expenditure because it was consolidating debt. Mr Ws income was calculated on his basic 
salary, but his contract of employment showed he had the potential to earn more because of 
overtime and a bonus. It said there was nothing in Mr Ws statement or credit file to suggest 
hed been struggling financially with his existing creditors and the increased amount he was 
paying prior to consolidation. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Everyday Lending to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr W could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Everyday Lending gathered information from Mr W before the loan was agreed. It asked for 
information about his employment, housing costs and living expenditure. It looked at his 
contract of employment to verify his income. It also reviewed bank statements and checked 
his credit file.
Everyday Lending worked out that Mr Ws net monthly income was £1,438 from the 
information on his employment contract. Everyday Lending has noted that Mr Ws 
contribution towards his rent was £287.50 per month. It calculated Mr Ws existing creditor 
repayments to be £604 a month. Everyday Lending worked out that his other expenses were 
around £635 which included a buffer of around £30. 
Everyday Lending calculated that Mr W had a monthly disposable income of £52, after 
taking into account his consolidated loans and monthly repayments for the Everyday 
Lending loan.
I think the checks Everyday Lending carried out were proportionate. But it also needed to 
properly consider the information it obtained from the checks to ensure it was making a fair 
lending decision. And Im not persuaded that it did. 
Everyday Lendings calculations indicated that Mr W would be left with very little disposable 
income after making the loan repayments, even taking into account the £30 buffer. Everyday 
Lending has commented that Mr W had the potential to earn more than his basic salary as 
his employment contract refers to overtime and a bonus. But I cant see that this additional 
income was guaranteed. Its also a concern that the loan was granted around the time that 
Mr W was starting a new job with a probation period of three months.
I appreciate that Mr W was taking out the loan in order to consolidate some other debts and 
Everyday Lending has commented that his total loan repayments would be lower than they 
were previously. But the information Everyday Lending gathered shows that Mr Ws total 
debt balance was over £11,000. So, the Everyday Lending loan would have had a limited 
impact on Mr Ws existing debt if used for consolidation. There was also a risk of the funds 
not being used to consolidate existing debt. 
I think Everyday Lending should have realised that Mr W would likely have had difficulty 
repaying the loan sustainably. I dont think his employment was particularly secure, given he 
was about to begin his probation period. And I dont think his disposable income would likely 
have been enough to cover any unexpected outgoings he may have had during the period of 
the loan. It follows that I dont think Everyday Lending acted responsibly when it granted    
Mr W the loan.
Mr W has also raised concerns about how Everyday Lending treated him when he told them 
he was unable to make his repayments. I understand he was particularly unhappy that 
Everyday lending wouldnt agree to a payment plan without seeing his bank statements. I can see that Mr W emailed Everyday Lending about a month after he took out the loan. He 
said he was unable to make payment because hed left his job. He asked how he could set 
up an arrangement plan or pause payments. Everyday Lending has noted that it requested 
bank statements so it could better understand his situation. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Everyday Lending to have done so. 
Everyday Lendings records show that it tried to contact Mr W several times to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for him. But it wasnt able to do this without a proper 
understanding of Mr Ws financial situation. 
I understand Mr W has been experiencing some issues with his mental health and found 
contact from Everyday Lending stressful. But Everyday Lending has shown its willing to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. I hope Mr W will work with Everyday Lending 
to repay anything he might still owe.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, Everyday Lending should:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan and treat any payments Mr W made 
as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ws loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Lending should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
If reworking Mr Ws loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Everyday Lending should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
Lending should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman