DRN-2895079
The complaint
Miss L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint last month. In that decision I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of my 
provisional decision, but for ease I exclude an extract from the decision below. I said;
Miss L was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. She borrowed £500 in February 2019 
and agreed to repay the loan in 18 monthly instalments. Miss L has faced problems 
repaying the loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made her 
complaint.
Loans 2 Go didnt think it had been wrong to provide the loan to Miss L. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it agreed to reduce her outstanding balance by 30%, which 
amounted to a reduction of £617.11 in her remaining balance. Miss L didnt accept 
that offer and brought her complaint to this Service.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Miss L before it agreed the loan. It 
asked her for details of her income, and her normal expenditure. After reviewing 
Miss Ls application it decided to revise Miss Ls declared expenditure upwards. And 
it checked her credit file to review Miss Ls other credit commitments, and how she 
was managing her other borrowing.
Miss L was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. She would need 
to make monthly repayments for a period of 18 months. So I think it was right that 
Loans 2 Go wanted to check, and independently verify, some detailed information 
about Miss Ls finances. I think the checks that Ive described above were sufficient, 
given the circumstances of this loan, to achieve that aim. I think that the checks 
Loans 2 Go did were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender needs to 
react appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. So Ive looked 
at the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it approved this loan to see whether it 
made a fair decision to lend to Miss L.
Miss L told Loans 2 Go that she had around £850 left over each month that she could 
use to repay the loan. I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Loans 2 Go 
to rely on the information Miss L had provided. But after making its checks 
Loans 2 Go decided that it should increase the amount that Miss L was spending 
each month, and to add a buffer to that expenditure to cover any unexpected 
emergencies. But even after making those additions Loans 2 Go concluded that 
Miss L would have enough left over to repay the loan.
 
The check of Miss Ls credit file didnt suggest that she was reliant on credit to meet 
her day to day living expenses. She had a relatively modest limit on her credit card, 
and a similarly small overdraft limit. Although both accounts were close to those limits 
they appeared to have been managed well in the past. Miss L also had another, 
larger, loan that had been taken out around two years earlier that was fully up to 
date.
The only area of concern from the credit check was a short-term loan that had been 
taken out in May 2018. Although it was for a similar value to the loan she was 
seeking from Loans 2 Go, Miss L appeared to have struggled to make her 
repayments from the outset. It was showing on her credit file as having been in a 
payment arrangement from the start and the balance had only reduced by around 8% 
in eight months. But given the other information Loans 2 Go had seen from its credit 
check, and considering the past records of consumers that it typically lent to, I dont 
think that account should have caused undue concern to the lender.
So on balance I dont think the proportionate checks that Loans 2 Go did raised 
sufficient concerns that the lender should have either asked for additional 
information, or refused Miss Ls application outright. On balance I think it was 
reasonable for Loans 2 Go to give this loan to her. I appreciate how disappointing my 
decision will be for Miss L. It does seem that her finances were in a far worse state 
than I have described above. But that wasnt something that Loans 2 Go saw in the 
checks that it did, nor was it something that Miss L declared to the lender. I think it 
was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to rely on the information that Miss L provided.
Both Miss L and Loans 2 Go have responded to my provisional decision. Loans 2 Go has 
said that it has no further points it wishes to make. Miss L provided some comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Miss L has said, I have considered her whole 
response carefully.
Miss L expressed her shock that my provisional decision was different to our adjudicators 
assessment. She thinks that her credit record and that Loans 2 Go needed to increase her 
declared expenditure should have raised concerns and prompted further checks. She says 
that she was suffering from poor mental health at the time she took the loan and thinks that 
is demonstrated by her agreement to such an expensive loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss L has said in response to my provisional decision, but 
her additional comments havent caused me to conclude I should change my findings. I am 
very sorry to hear about the health problems she was facing at the time she took the loan. 
But I havent seen anything that would make me think Miss L made Loans 2 Go aware of 
any health issues when she applied for the loan. I have seen that the interest rate, and the 
amount Miss L would need to repay were clearly set out in the loan agreement that she 
signed. And. whilst I accept that, with the benefit of hindsight, Miss L now feels she shouldnt 
have accepted the loan, that doesnt lead me to think that Loans 2 Go was wrong to give it to 
her.I still think that the checks Loans 2 Go did were proportionate. And for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision I dont think the results of those checks should have 
led Loans 2 Go to gather further information or decline Miss Ls application. I dont think the 
limited problems shown by the credit check were sufficient to lead the lender to a conclusion 
that Miss L might be facing problems managing her money, and that she wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont uphold this complaint.
As I said earlier, Loans 2 Go made an offer to Miss L to reduce the outstanding balance on 
her loan, before she brought her complaint to this Service. It isnt clear to me whether 
Loans 2 Go made that balance reduction or not. But if not, Miss L should get in touch with 
the lender to confirm whether or not the offer remains available to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman