DRN-1766649
The complaint
Ms A complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and that it treated her 
unfairly when she had payment problems.
What happened
Ms A was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. Here are the loan details: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*
1 20/08/18 Not repaid 18 £250 £56.64
In relation to her irresponsible lending complaint, Ms A mainly said that if Loans 2 Go 
had completed proper checks it would have seen she was struggling financially. Shes 
also mentioned some other concerns, including the high interest rate on this loan which 
she said had put her deeper into debt. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms As complaint. She thought that Loans 2 Go did 
sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in the 
information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Ms A.
So our adjudicator didnt think Loans 2 Go had been wrong to provide Ms A with the loan 
and she also didnt think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Ms A in relation to her other 
complaint points.
Ms A didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She mainly said that the credit checks 
Loans 2 Go relied on were wrong as they dont appear to include a lot of other debt 
she had at the time and so she doesnt believe the adjudicator has based her decision 
on true facts. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Ms As complaint.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Ms As complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Ms A and thought carefully about the following key questions:
 Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms A 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
what checks did Loans 2 Go do? 
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Ms A before it agreed the loan. It asked 
her for details of her income and verified this by looking at an online income verification tool. Loans 2 Go noted details of her normal monthly spending including her housing 
costs, groceries, utilities, transport and other regular expenses  as well as asking 
Ms A what she was spending on other credit each month. 
It also allowed for some extra spending not already included in case she had some 
extra or unplanned  expenses. And it did a credit check to assess how much she was 
already repaying to other creditors.
Loans 2 Go told us that it was satisfied that Ms A received a minimum monthly income of 
around £2695. Her declared her monthly expenditure and credit commitments came to £600 
but Loans 2 Go calculated the total was actually around £1788 following a review of her 
credit report. It also deducted 5% of her income as a buffer to account for any fluctuations 
in her monthly expenditure. 
Loans 2 Go  worked out that this left Ms A with disposable income of £772.14 - which meant 
that the monthly contractual instalments of £56.64 that she had signed up to make on this 
loan should have been comfortably affordable for her.
did Loans 2 Go do proportionate checks? 
Ive carefully considered whether the information that Loans 2 Go gathered at the time 
should reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the 
information Loans 2 Go had collected about Ms As financial situation was enough to prompt 
a reasonable lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking.
The credit report that Loans 2 Go acquired showed that Ms A had a total balance on all her 
accounts of around £1,953  which included £1,210 tied up in 3 payday loan accounts. She 
had a credit card account that was within its limit and well managed. It appeared that Ms A 
had no court judgements or defaults recorded in the 6 months running up to this loan. 
There was some adverse information on Ms As credit checks. Loans 2 Go could see Ms A 
had entered in to an arrangement to pay on a mail order account after payment problems 
around 6 months earlier. It could also see that another loan had 1 month of arrears before 
being repaid in June 2018. And that Ms A had cleared a number of other short term loans 
within the previous 12 months of this loan  and shed also had a payment plan set up on 
one of those.
So I think its fair to say that Loans 2 Go could see that Ms A had sometimes had a problem 
making all her agreed contractual payments in full and on time.
But given the type of lending, I think a lender would reasonably expect to see some adverse 
information on its customers credit history. And, looked at overall, I think it would have been 
fair for Loans 2 Go to have considered that Ms As credit report generally showed a positive 
payment history.
did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to consider 
that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Ms A  allowing for the amount it 
had seen she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors and what shed declared 
as her income and general living expenses.
I've taken into account that Ms A says the credit information that Loans 2 Go relied on was 
wrong because it didnt reveal the full extent of her debt at the time. But Ms A hasnt sent us any more information to show that shes right about this. And what she says isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
Overall, I think the checks that Loans 2 Go carried out before lending to Ms A were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Loans 2 Go 
to have relied on the information that Ms A provided and what it found in its checks - and this 
was enough to enable Loans 2 Go to gain a reasonable understanding of her financial 
situation and see that Ms A appeared to be managing her money without any significant 
payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements 
 were required.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Loans 2 Go gathered at the time 
which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Ms A s financial 
position when she applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have led Loans 2 Go to 
the conclusion that her loan application should be declined. 
So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold her irresponsible lending complaint. 
has Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in any other way?  
Ms A was unhappy that Loans 2 Go increased her monthly repayment after a temporary 
payment plan was put in place. But it looks like the plan set up to enable Ms A to make 
reduced payments was only a short term arrangement  and this was confirmed to Ms A by 
email. I think the plan was a fair and reasonable response to the payment problems she was 
facing at the time.   
Records show that Loans 2 Go texted, phoned and sent letters in an effort to get in contact 
with Ms A to discuss options going forwards after this arrangement ended. But as it was 
unable to get back in touch with Ms A this meant that the contractual loan monthly 
repayments were reinstated at the end of the period agreed for reduced payments.  
I cant see that Loans 2 Go acted unreasonably when it did this.
Ms A told us that the interest rate on this loan put her deeper in debt. 
I think there was a very large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate 
that Ms A might now feel this has unfairly added to her debt problems.
But the loan documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Ms A applied 
for this loan and she had to actively engage in the loan application process. The annual 
percentage rate of charge (APR) on Ms As loan was 990.1%. The total charge for the £250 
loan was around £769. The agreement showed she would need to make 17 payments of 
£56.64 and a final payment of £56.64.
So I think its likely that Ms A wouldve understood the 18-month loan term and been able to 
see the total amount of interest payable at the time. Taking everything into account, I think 
Loans 2 Go made Ms A aware that she was taking a very high cost loan over an 18-month 
period. Ms A accepted these terms so it seems to me that she was happy with the loan at 
the time she signed up to pay it.
Thinking about everything I've seen and been told, I cant fairly conclude that Loans 2 Go 
was wrong to provide the loan to Ms A. And I dont find that Loans 2 Go has acted unfairly 
towards her in some other way. 
So I do not uphold Ms As complaint.I appreciate that Ms A feels strongly about this complaint and that she will be 
disappointed in my decision. And Im sorry that she is now struggling financially and she 
has been unable to repay this loan. But I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
foreseen this when it provided this loan to her. 
I take this opportunity to remind Loans 2 Go (or any a third-party debt collection agent) that it 
should always discuss payment options constructively with Ms A and treat her fairly and 
sympathetically if Ms A needs further time to pay what she still owes.
If Ms A would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman