DRN-4237658
The complaint
Miss M complains that Oplo PL Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss M applied for a loan with Oplo. Oplo approved the application and gave 
Miss M a loan for £10,000 repayable over 30 months with a monthly repayment of £471.34.
Miss M complained that Oplo lent to her irresponsibly.
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Miss M.
Miss M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding the complaint. I 
said that before agreeing to lend, Oplo needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss M could sustainably repay what she was being lent. I explained 
that theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry pout but that lenders need to 
consider things like the amount of the loan, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding what checks were 
reasonable and proportionate.
Miss M declared a monthly salary of £1760 when she applied for the loan. Oplo validated 
this using a third-party tool. Miss M also declared PIP of £252 per month which Oplo 
validated by looking at Mis Ms bank statements.
Oplo carried out a credit search which showed that Miss M had unsecured debt of around 
£10,000 with existing monthly debt repayments of around £400 and household expenditure 
of around £627 per month. The credit search showed no adverse information within the last 
three years.
Using the information it had gathered from the checks, Oplo calculated that Miss M had 
monthly disposable income of around £924, meaning that after making the loan repayment, 
Miss M would have around £452 disposable income left.
I said in my provisional decision that based on what Id seen, I thought the checks carried 
out by Oplo were reasonable and proportionate.
I then went on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
When Miss M applied for the loan, she told Oplo that she intended to use it to pay for some 
home improvements and to consolidate some debts. The debt consolidation was the 
repayment of a credit card and the reduction of sums due under a hire purchase agreement. 
Following the debt consolidation, Miss M wouldve been using around 37% of her monthly 
income to repay debt. I explained that whilst this was a significant amount of income being 
used to repay debt, debt to income ratio wasnt the only factor to consider as part of the 
overall consideration of whether the lending decision was fair.
I looked at Miss Ms monthly disposable income and noted that after repaying debts 
Including the Oplo loan), she was left with around £452. I felt that this was a sufficient 
income to say that the loan was affordable, and that Miss M was likely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan.
On that basis, I concluded that the lending decision was fair. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further comments they wished to make.
Oplo replied and said that they had nothing further to add.
Miss M replied and said that she didnt agree that she was likely to sustainably repay the 
loan. She felt that Id only looked at affordability and not sustainability. Miss M referred to 
medical evidence she had provided to this service when she raised her complaint which 
showed that she was suffering from mental health issues at the time she took out the loan.
Miss M also made some comments about affordability. She said that her PIP benefit 
entitlement was for one year only and that when it was reviewed in October 2020 she lost 
her entitlement, which meant that she was £252 worse off every month. Miss M said she 
didnt think that Oplo shouldve considered this as part of her income, because the benefit 
wasnt indefinite. but was instead reviewable every year. Miss M said that if you took out the 
PIP benefit, the loan wasnt affordable for her.
Miss M also said that she wanted Oplo to consider removing the default from her credit file 
as this was impacting on her ability to obtain a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything that Miss M has said. If I dont comment on a specific 
point, it isnt because I havent taken it on board and thought about it, but because Ive 
limited my comments to those matters which are directly relevant to my decision. The 
approach taken by this service allows me to do this. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss M has suffered with her health and that her entitlement to PIP 
benefit was removed. I appreciate that this will have impacted on her financial circumstances 
from the point at which it was removed, which Miss M says was in October 2020, around 7 
months after the loan was approved.
Ive already explained that there is an obligation on Oplo to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. My view that the checks carried out by Oplo were reasonable and 
proportionate hasnt changed. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by 
Oplo which shouldve promoted Oplo to carry out further checks. 
Miss M has said that she didnt think that sustainability had been properly considered. I did 
reference sustainability in my provisional decision. I think what Miss M wants me to address 
is whether Oplo ought to have taken into account the fact that her PIP entitlement was 
subject to review. Ive thought about this, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Miss M 
advised Oplo that the benefit was temporary or subject to review. I dont think Oplo was 
wrong to take the benefit into account when it looked at affordability, because Miss M was in 
receipt of it at the time she applied for the loan. I dont think Oplo  or Miss M  could have 
reasonably foreseen that the benefit would be removed when it was reviewed. Miss M has also said that Oplo was aware at the time she applied for the loan that she had 
health issues, and that her health was unlikely to improve. Ive looked at the medical 
evidence that Miss M has provided, and I dont disagree that she has health issues. And I 
think that the PIP benefit that Miss M was receiving at the time she applied for the loan 
wouldve put Oplo on notice that Miss M had a condition which entitled her to claim this 
benefit. But I havent seen evidence that Miss M provided specific details of her condition to 
Oplo, or that she advised Oplo that she had difficulties managing her spending habits as a 
result of her condition. As Ive said above, Oplo carried out a credit check and discovered 
that Miss M held other credit accounts. But there was no evidence (in the form of adverse 
information on Miss Ms credit file) that Miss M wasnt managing those other accounts well.
I appreciate that Miss M wants the default removed from her credit file. But Im unable to ask 
Oplo to do this because they havent acted unfairly in reporting it. This is because lenders 
are under an obligation to provide accurate information about the status of a credit account 
to the credit reference agencies.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman