DRN-3689029
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
In August 2009 Mr and Mrs M purchased a joint timeshare membership from a timeshare 
provider (Business D). Mr M borrowed money from BPF to pay the full purchase price for 
the timeshare of £13,500. He repaid this amount in full in March 2010.
 
In January 2020 Mr M contacted BPF to let them know he had serious concerns about 
Business D. He said it appeared Business D werent permitted or authorised to arrange the 
lending on BPFs behalf back in 2009. So, he said the lending was arranged contrary to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and therefore caused him significant 
losses.
Mr M didnt receive a full response from BPF, so in December 2020 he contacted our service 
via a professional representative to raise a complaint about BPF on behalf of him and Mrs M. 
Their representative said Business D misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M, and that 
Business D wasnt correctly authorised to arrange the credit, so the credit agreement should 
be set aside as unlawful. They also said Business Ds conduct created an unfair relationship 
between Mr M and BPF under section 140A of the CCA.
Mr Ms representative said they were subjected to a lengthy and pressurised sales 
presentation by Business D, and they were told they would have exclusive access to 
Business Ds resorts anywhere in the world. But they said they werent able to book the 
holidays they wanted due to poor availability and the resorts werent exclusive. They also 
said no credit checks were carried out by BPF to assess Mr Ms creditworthiness or whether 
the lending was affordable for him. As BPF hadnt given a full response to Mr Ms initial 
complaint, we passed the expanded complaint to BPF.
BPF responded to Mr Ms complaint via our service. BPF said any claim Mr M may have 
under section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation was made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA). They said the relevant time limit for a misrepresentation claim is 
six years from the date of loss, which was the point at which the timeshare sale was 
completed, and Mr M made his claim outside of this timeframe. BPF said Mr Ms claim under 
section 140A was also made outside of the relevant time limits under the LA.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think the loan had been 
arranged unlawfully, or that it should be set aside. And he didnt think Mr M had explained 
how hed lost out as a result of BPF failing to carry out any checks in relation to the lending.
Overall, he also concluded that Mr Ms section 75 and section 140A claims had been made 
outside of the time limits set out under the LA. And he didnt think there was anything to 
suggest Mr M was entitled to longer than the relevant six years to make his claim. So, he 
didnt think BPFs decision not to look into the substance of Mr Ms claims was unfair.
 
Mr Ms representative responded to say he disagreed. In summary, they said Business D 
was not a legal entity at the time of sale in 2009 and asked that we provide evidence of 
Business D holding any type of authorised licence at that point. They said Mr M did not have 
the required knowledge of the misrepresentations to bring a section 75 claim until 2020, so 
they disagreed with the investigators analysis of the relevant time limits under the LA. They 
also said the issues relating to misrepresentation were concealed from Mr and Mrs M at the 
point of sale, so the time limits should be extended under section 32 of the LA. And that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is considering complaints, not causes of action, and is free to 
depart from the relevant law in determining what is fair and reasonable. 
As regards Mr Ms section 140A claim, Mr Ms representative said the time limit should run 
from the date Mr M discovered, or could have discovered, the relevant breaches, which was 
also in 2020. They said Mr Ms claim lies in speciality and therefore attracts the limitation 
period of 12 years from when he knew he had a claim. They also said that seeking to 
enforce an unfair agreement is itself unfair, so the debtor (in this case Mr M) has a 
continuing cause of action which subsists as long as the agreement is current. They said this 
is relevant because Mr M has been pursued by Business D for payment of maintenance fees 
each year under his timeshare agreement, which created a new limitation period on a yearly 
basis. They said it cannot be fair or reasonable that BPF can deploy a limitation defence in 
circumstances where their agent (Business D) have taken significant sums from Mr and 
Mrs M and are pursuing them for further sums on a regular basis.
Mr Ms representative also said that the investigator failed to recognise the importance of 
BPF carrying out its obligations under the FCA handbook. They said it was wrong of the 
investigator to place the burden on Mr M to show the lending was unaffordable when there is 
a complete absence of any checks being carried out by BPF in respect of responsible 
lending. They said Mr and Mrs M could not afford the loan as it swallowed up the majority, if 
not all of their disposable income at the time. Further, they said they do not accept that in the 
absence of evidence to support loss suffered by Mr M as a result of BPFs failure to carry out 
adequate checks of creditworthiness that BPF are absolved from their obligation to do the 
same. 
Finally, Mr Ms representative said the investigators assessment failed to consider and 
address the following issues:
Whether BPF undertook the necessary creditworthiness assessment in accordance with 
the FCA Handbook.
The grounds of misrepresentation.
Findings from another consumers complaint as regards unauthorised collective 
investment schemes.
That the timeshare, in respect of fractional points, was represented to Mr and Mrs M as 
an investment. 
The above points didnt change the investigators view. Because Mr M disagreed, the case 
was referred to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
Firstly, I think its important to make clear that the credit BPF provided to finance the 
2009 timeshare purchase was provided in Mr Ms name only. So, although Mr Ms 
representative has said he purchased a joint timeshare agreement with Mrs M, she is 
not party to the credit agreement with BPF that was used to pay for it. This means only 
Mr M is entitled to bring a claim against BPF, which is why Im only referring to Mr M in 
my findings.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr M says Business D misrepresented a number of points in relation to the timeshare 
agreement he purchased. Under section 75 of the CCA, if there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the timeshare supplier, Mr M could also have a like claim against the 
financial business that provided him with the credit to buy the timeshare (in this case, BPF). 
This means that BPF could also be held jointly liable for any proven misrepresentations. 
However, if the creditor can show that any claims under the CCA were brought outside 
of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
answering those claims, as BPF is seeking to do in this case. 
While Mr Ms representative is correct that I am required to determine a complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint (section 228 (2) of the FSMA and DISP 3.6.1 R), I am also required to take 
into account relevant law and regulations in considering what is fair and reasonable 
(DISP 3.6.4). And I am satisfied that the LA is relevant law in the circumstances of this 
case. If I find it is most likely BPF would have a total defence under the LA, it would not 
be fair or reasonable for me to order them to pay a claim they would not otherwise be 
held liable for. So, I must take this into account.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) 
of the Misrepresentation Act 1980 (MA). It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the limitation period expires six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (section 2 of the LA).
Here, Mr M brought a like claim against BPF under section 75 of the CCA. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim. As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's 
right to repayment is so closely connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's 
statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the debtor may assert a right of set-off in diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the creditor, and as a defence in 
proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter-claim). Any attempt to 
exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and would in any case 
fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])
Therefore, the limitation period for the section 75 claim expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Ms case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against BPF. I think that was the 
date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in August 2009. It was at that 
time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of 
Business D. So, it was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he also then entered into an 
agreement to borrow money from BPF.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 31 August 2009 (when 
Mr Ms representative said he entered into the timeshare purchase), so Mr M had six 
years from that date to bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact BPF about a section 75 
claim until December 2020 when he raised a complaint via our service, which was outside 
of the time limits set out in the LA. So, I dont think BPF acted unreasonably by refusing to 
look into Mr Ms section 75 claim on this basis. 
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Mr M also raised a claim under section 140A of the CCA. Under this section a court 
may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out of the 
agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the relationship between the debtor and the 
creditor ended. 
In this case, Mr M repaid the £13,500 he borrowed from BPF in March 2010 and he no 
longer owed any money under his credit agreement from that point onward. BPF told us his 
account was closed at this point. So, like the investigator, I think his relationship with BPF, 
in relation to the funds he borrowed to purchase the timeshare membership in 2009, ended 
on the date he settled his account with them (on 10 March 2010). So, the limitation period 
under the LA started to run from that point.
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the relevant limitation period under the LA is 
six years, so Mr M would have had to bring an action within six years from that date. Thats 
because the claim Mr M makes is for repayment of sums he paid to the loan, which is an 
action for sums recoverable under statute to which section 9 of the LA applies. As he didnt 
bring his claim until December 2020 (also via our service), I think he brought his claim too 
late. 
Mr Ms arguments on limitation
I appreciate Mr Ms representative said Mr M didnt have the required knowledge to bring a 
section 75 or section 140A claim prior to 2020. So, they didnt think the time limits should 
start until then. In effect, they have argued that the relevant date to start the time limits running for both claims would be the date of knowledge. I have considered their arguments, 
but I dont agree. I accept that part of the LA refers to the date of knowledge as relevant for 
limitation purposes, but Im satisfied those sections dont apply in this case. Ill explain why.
Under section 11A of the LA time doesnt start to run for limitation purposes until the 
claimant first had the relevant knowledge. This provision is titled Actions in respect of 
defective products and applies to an action for damages by virtue of Part 1 of the 
Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to actions that arise out of products 
and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it assists Mr M. Neither does section 14 
of the LA, which also refers to the date of knowledge but simply defines what is meant by 
date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mr Ms claim.
Section 14A of the LA also provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of 
that section). But Im not persuaded that section 14A applies to Mr Ms claim either. That 
provision provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking 
at what happened, when Mr M purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the finance. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which section 14A of the LA could apply.
Mr Ms representative also said Business D concealed the issues that were misrepresented 
at the point of sale, so the time limits should be extended under section 32 of the LA -  which 
states that in cases of fraud, concealment, or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run 
from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment, or mistake (or could have 
discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr Ms representative hasnt explained what 
Business D concealed or how this applies to his claim that they misrepresented the 
availability and exclusivity of the resorts. Indeed, theyve not pointed to anything in particular 
that they think constitutes any fraud, concealment, or mistake. And, based on what Ive seen 
so far, I cant see that there was any. In any event, I think Mr M probably had enough 
information about the terms of the agreement to start the time limits running not long after he 
purchased the product. So, Im not persuaded that Mr M is able to rely on section 32 of the 
LA in these circumstances.
Finally, Mr Ms representative argued that Mr Ms claim is an action upon a specialty and so 
the 12 year time limit set out under section 8 of the LA applies. In support of their argument, 
they referred to the case of Bhattacharya and another v Oaksix Holdings Ltd [2021] EWHC 
1326 (Ch). In that case, the High Court considered the LA in the context of section 26 
(agreements by unauthorised persons) and section 28 of the FSMA (agreements made 
unenforceable by section 26 or 27 of the FSMA). It was held that the limitation period 
applicable to a claim for a declaration of unenforceability under section 26(1) of the FSMA 
was 12 years pursuant to section 8(1) of the LA. And the limitation period applicable to a 
claim for repayment of monies under section 28(2) of the FSMA was six years pursuant to 
section 9 of the LA. 
I dont see the relevance here for Mr Ms section 140A or section 75 claim, as a claim made 
under an entirely different statute. And the investigator didnt conclude that Mr Ms claim 
relating to the unauthorised broker was out of time under the LA. But, in any event, it is clear 
in this case that Mr M is seeking repayment of funds and not a declaration of 
unenforceability, as set out by Mr Ms representative in the letter of complaint dated 24 
December 2020, under the heading relief sought. Specifically, they asked for restitution of 
any sums paid to them by our clients. And Mr M said he was seeking recovery of monies 
paid in his original letter to BPF in January 2020. In line with the case of Bhattacharya 
above, this means the six year time limit under section 9 of the LA would apply. I also dont think any yearly management fees that may be payable under Mr Ms timeshare agreement 
changes this, as it is the relationship between Mr M and BPF that is crucial, and that 
relationship ended more than six years before the claim. 
Conclusion on limitation
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it responded to Mr Ms 
complaint via our service to say that his section 75 and section 140A claims were brought 
too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr M may 
have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from 
the information available, any claim that Mr M might have against the supplier and/or BPF 
has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take 
this into account in these circumstances. And I dont think theres any reason why the time 
limits should be extended. So, I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in seeking to 
decline Mr Ms claims under the CCA. This means I wont be asking it to do anything 
further in response to Mr Ms claims under the CCA.
Was Business D authorised to arrange the credit agreement?
Mr M and his representative argue that Business D wasnt authorised to arrange the credit 
agreement on BPFs behalf and therefore breached the General Prohibition (section 19 of 
the FSMA). While I dont think its fair to consider this under a section 140A claim (because it 
was made out of time under the LA), I can consider this as a separate, stand-alone issue. 
However, as our investigator explained, our records indicate that Business D was authorised 
in 2009, albeit not by the FCA. The FCA only took over the regulation of consumer credit 
businesses on 1 April 2014. So, Mr M is correct in saying Business D wasnt authorised by 
the FCA at the time of sale to arrange credit. However, prior to this, such businesses were 
regulated by the OFT instead. And, as explained by our investigator, when Business D 
arranged the lending for Mr M with BPF, our records indicate that they were authorised by 
the OFT. 
Mr Ms representative said that the name used for Business D on the credit agreement and 
account documents was not a legal entity, and so it cannot have held a licence. However, I 
can see that the only part of Business Ds name that is missing is ltd. So, Im not persuaded 
that this shows Business D wasnt a legal entity at the time of sale. It is not unusual for 
businesses to use trading names. And this doesnt mean they werent an entity. Based on 
records from Companies House, the FCA, and our own records, Im satisfied Business D 
was a legal entity at the time of sale  and that they were authorised by the OFT. 
Mr Ms representative hasnt provided any other evidence that credit agreement was 
brokered outside of appropriate authorisations or explained why it thinks that was the case. 
For example, I cant see that they asked the FCA to see the old OFT Register which would 
contain Business Ds authorisations. And, based on what Ive seen, I cant see that there 
was any contravention of any relevant regulatory provision. So, I dont uphold this part of 
Mr Ms complaint. 
Were the proper checks carried out when BPF agreed to lend Mr M money?
Mr M says BPF failed to carry out proper credit checks when lending to Mr M in 2009. And I 
appreciate Mr Ms representative says the burden shouldnt be on the consumer to prove 
that the lending was affordable. Rather, it is the lenders obligation to make sure they are 
lending responsibly  with which I agree. However, even if I were to conclude that BPF or its 
agents didnt carry out the proper checks for creditworthiness and affordability when 
arranging the credit facility, I would still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr M and/or that he lost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of his 
complaint. 
Mr Ms representative hasnt provided any supporting evidence to show that this was the 
case. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr M struggled to repay the amount borrowed, 
for example, or that he otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. So, like 
the investigator, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to uphold this part of the 
complaint either.
I understand Mr Ms representative said they do not accept that in the absence of evidence 
of a loss that BPF should be absolved from their obligation to carry out adequate checks for 
creditworthiness. However, that is not the point. I am not absolving BPF for any failures that 
may have occurred - the Financial Ombudsman Services role is not a regulator and it is not 
our role to fine or punish businesses. So, whilst is it is quite possible that BPF didnt 
undertake adequate checks (and I make no finding on that point), there is not sufficient 
evidence to suggest that Mr M lost out as a result, so there is nothing for me to ask BPF to 
put right.
The additional concerns raised by Mr Ms representative
Ive looked at the points raised by Mr Ms representative, which they said still needed to be 
addressed. Firstly, Im satisfied the investigator considered Mr Ms complaint about whether 
a creditworthiness assessment was carried out, as set out in his view letter when referring to 
whether proper checks were carried out and whether provisions of the FCA Handbook were 
followed. But, as explained above and in the investigators view, theres insufficient evidence 
to show this caused Mr M a loss in the circumstances. 
As regards the grounds of misrepresentation, including the argument that the timeshare was 
presented as an investment contrary to the relevant timeshare regulations; I am satisfied that 
these points fall within Mr Ms section 75 and/or section 140A claims above. And such claims 
were raised out of time under the LA. This means I find it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for 
BPF to refuse to consider the claims on this basis. And the key issue I am deciding in 
relation to these claims is whether BPFs response to such claims was fair  not whether 
Mr Ms claims would have otherwise succeeded. So, I wont be commenting further on the 
misrepresentations Mr M has raised.
Mr Ms representative also referred to a colleagues decision on a separate complaint 
made by another consumer and, in particular, their findings concerning unauthorised 
collective investment schemes. They said the investigator failed to consider these 
findings. I have read the decision, but each case is ultimately decided on its individual 
merits. And Mr Ms representative hasnt explained how these findings are relevant to 
Mr Ms complaint. So, I wont be commenting on this further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman