DRN-3437412
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he 
says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2015, Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr B decided to purchase the system. He paid 
the deposit with his Santander credit card. The system was subsequently installed.
In April 2019 the CMC made a claim to Santander on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the cost of the system 
(£10,745) in six years.
Santander issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view, and said that it was not consistent with 
other decisions made by this service. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has 
been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr B paid for the system with a credit card, Santander agrees that section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Santander (the creditor) for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed against 
P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Santander.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
FIT payments
Mr B has alleged that he was told that the cost of the system would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments within six years of the purchase. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mr B has said.
The quote gives the total price of the system as £10,745. It does not set out any estimate for 
the expected financial returns from the system, and nor does the rest of the sales 
documentation. The systems estimated performance is only set out in terms of kWh (and 
I will return to this in the next section). So there is no paperwork to support what Mr B says 
he was told about the financial benefits.
However, in an email to the investigator the CMC said that Mr B recalls being advised by 
the sales representative that the system would produce a financial benefit in the region of 
£1,200 to £1,500 per year and that the system would cover its own cost within approximately 
six years.
If I assume for now that the figure of £1,200 to £1,500 per year is correct, then that would 
mean that in six years the system would yield returns of between £7,200 and £9,000. That is 
obviously some way short of the cost of the system, which as Ive said was £10,745.
Since that evidence is self-contradictory, I cannot safely rely on Mr Bs recollection of what 
he was told. On the balance of probabilities, I am not satisfied that he was told that the 
system would pay for itself in six years. (It will, of course, pay for itself eventually.)
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,269 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Bs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,594 kWh a year. This is somewhat more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of kWh.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman