DRN-3368971
The complaint
Ms D, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount Max. Weekly 
Repayment
1 15/12/2016 04/07/2017 33 £100.00 £5.00
2 04/07/2017 19/12/2017 33 £100.00 £5.00
3 19/12/2017 07/08/2018 33 £100.00 £5.00
Short gap
4 22/11/2018 27/06/2019 33 £100.00 £5.00
5 27/06/2019 12/12/2019 33 £200.00 £10.00
6 12/12/2019 11/03/2021 34 £200.00 £10.00
After Ms D complained, Morses sent her its final response letter (FRL) in which it gave 
reasons why it did not uphold her complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should put things 
right for Ms D for loans 5 and 6. He thought that Ms D, having been in debt to Morses for two 
and a half years, with no significant gaps and only a relatively small break in lending in 2018, 
meant that the pattern of lending was unsustainable. 
Morses disagreed and gave several reasons as to why it thought differently, all of which 
I have reviewed and considered carefully.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. Ms D appeared to agree with our 
adjudicators view and so the loans in dispute appear to be loans 5 and 6. I have reviewed 
those within the context of the overall lending relationship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms D could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Ds 
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Ms D. These factors include:
Ms D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms D having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms D. Our adjudicator considered this 
to be the case for Ms D.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms D could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms D was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Ds complaint.
Gap in lending
I am aware of the three and a half month gap in the lending between loans 3 and 4. This is 
not such a significant gap that I consider it was enough to break the lending chain. And so, 
I am approaching this complaint as though it was a continuous lending relationship from 
loan 1 to loan 6.
However, I have reviewed what that gap means when considered as part of the overall 
lending relationship and the reason given by our adjudicator as to why he gave a view that 
loans 5 and 6 ought to be upheld for Ms D. I have expanded on this later in the decision.
Evidential points
I must acknowledge that we have very little in the form of evidence from Ms D. Ive 
considered all that I have carefully. Her representative has said that it has no more evidence 
available to send us and has asked us to proceed on what we have. Ms Ds representative has sent to us a table listing a series of other loans and the dates she 
had them with other lenders between December 2015 and November 2018. But theres no 
verification to back this up and so I attach little evidential weight to that list. 
Morses has sent us a copy of a credit search it carried out in December 2016  before 
loan 1. The credit search set of results did indicate Ms D had had some sort of insolvency 
record but it was not clear what that was. 
Our adjudicator asked Ms D if she had any kind of issue in the past such as bankruptcy, an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) or a formal debt management plan, and her reply 
was no. So, I am unclear as to what that record in the results may have been. Ms D has 
denied having any insolvency issue in the past. So, I cannot really factor this into my 
deliberations as its not clear what it may have been, if anything.
Ive reviewed all the points Morses said in response to our adjudicators view and the last 
part it says that Ms D had 
made us aware that her son pays her rent and council tax in full, she had no 
insurance or transport costs, and that she had recently made savings on the cost of 
her utilities and media services.
In relation to this last assertion by Morses, Ive no evidence to back this up and so I attach 
little weight to it.
My findings on the evidence I have
Morses has said it did only one credit search  I referred to it earlier - and that was at the 
beginning of the relationship. What that set of results does show is that Ms D had only three 
credit accounts of which 1 was active. From the records that looks to have been a bank 
account. Morses would have seen that she had very little in the way of other credit in 
December 2016. 
The short break in the lending from August 2018 does lead me to think that Ms D was not 
likely dependent on Morses loans and I think this for two reasons: one is that from 
December 2016 when Ms D took loan 1 to December 2017 when she applied for and took 
loan 3, I do not consider it a long enough time or that the loan applications were for large 
enough loan amounts to lead me to think that Ms D had become dependent on that credit. 
And the second reason is that when Ms D reapplied to Morses for loan 4 in November 2018, 
because it had been eleven months since she had taken loan 3 and over three months since 
she had repaid loan 3, then I am not persuaded that Ms D was reliant on the Morses credit 
to the extent that Morses ought to have realised it and ceased lending. To this extent I do not 
agree with our adjudicators view.
Having said all that, I noticed that Ms Ds declared income to Morses halved when she 
applied to it for loan 3. 
Morses has sent to us what it calls its frontsheet and has explained: 
Income and expenditure information can be located on the Front Sheet on the right 
hand side, this includes the customers income, priority bills and any other 
expenditure information.
Here is a duplicate of the table of figures from that frontsheet Morses has sent to us on the 
income and expenditure values it relied on when making the decisions to lend. LOAN INCOME EXPENDITURE DISPOSABLE 
INCOME
1 £252.00 £168.00 £84.00
2 £230.00 £183.00 £47.00
3 £116.00 £84.00 £32.00
4 £113.54 £85.50 £28.04
5 £119.04 £75.00 £44.04
6 £119.04 £83.00 £36.04
I think that large income reduction, plus the fact that Ms D was, in my view, within a low 
income bracket (£116 a week) when she applied to Morses for loan 3, leads me to think that 
Morses ought to have checked further. 
Additional checks may have taken several forms, but certainly seeking to discover why her 
income had halved would have been a high priority in my view. As Ms D has made it clear 
she has nothing else to send me then in the absence of anything else then I have reviewed 
what I have from Morses.
The  weekly expenditure figures for Ms D for loan 5 included groceries, utilities and media 
costs and a £5 repayment to Morses which I can see from the Statements of Account sent to 
me for Ms Ds loans, related to the loan 4 repayments. It was much the same for loan 6 but 
this time the Morses repayment was listed as £10. From this it seems that the disposable 
income for Ms D after taking loan 5 was £39.04 each week. And for Loan 6, £36.04. 
Using what I have, then my view is that in June and December 2019, for an applicant such 
as Ms D to have had an income each week of £119 was low and the disposable income 
(with no rent declared in these figures) of £39 and £36 respectively were low figures. The 
capital sums Ms D was requesting for loans 5 and 6 were for double what she had asked for 
in the past and were twice as much each week - £10 a week rather than £5 a week. And 
although these may be viewed as relatively small repayment sums, still I consider that for 
Ms D, on a low income, there were not insignificant. She had been in debt to Morses for a 
long period overall by the time she applied to it for loan 5. Ms Ds available money to spend 
was a low amount, and one Id consider to be unsustainable for the 33 and 34 week terms 
which were around eight months each.
Simply using the figures Morses has presented to me as being the information it had when it 
was making the lending decisions, leads me to consider that the lending was irresponsible. 
. 
I uphold Ms Ds complaint about loans 5 and 6
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms D at loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Ms D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms D loans 5 and 6.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms D towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms D the total of A plus B.
D) Morses needs to amend the adverse payment information that may have been entered 
onto Ms Ds credit file in respect of loans 5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman