DRN-2100880
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K bought a regular premium MPPI policy in April 1996. The policy was sold 
alongside a mortgage and this was arranged in a meeting. The policy and mortgage ended 
in August 2001.
Mrs K and Mr K say they were led to believe they had to have the MPPI policy if they were to 
be accepted for the mortgage. They also say they dont think the policy would have paid out 
initially because they had redundancy and sick pay. They say the policy was mis-sold to 
them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs K and Mr Ks case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs K and Mr K say Halifax led them to believe they had to have MPPI. 
I acknowledge everything Mrs K and Mr K has said. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Mrs K and Mr K and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs K and Mr K has told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs K and Mr K during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mrs K and Mr K, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for their needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs K and Mr K based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mrs K and Mr K say they each would have been able to use their 6 months sick 
pay but, as our adjudicator has explained, the MPPI policy would have paid in 
addition to any provisions they would have had and for longer. So, the benefit would 
have been of use to Mrs K and Mr K during a difficult time as they could have used 
their provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs K and Mr K had a 
need for this cover based on their circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended 
period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for them either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mrs K and Mr K took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
Mrs K and Mr K in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they 
were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mrs K and Mr K would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs K and Mr K wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mrs K and 
Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman