DRN-3651157
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr M was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in January 2016. He borrowed £2,500 and 
agreed to repay this over 36 months. Mr M repaid this loan in 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed to lend. It called Mr M to 
discuss his income and expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out 
his credit commitments. It also requested bank statements. Those checks suggested Mr M 
had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 3 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr M 
had made extensive use of the credit available to him. He had a bank account with an 
overdraft. He had a large hire purchase agreement, a mail order account and 3 short term 
loans. I can see that Mr M was meeting all of his other credit repayments when they fell due 
and overall didnt have too much that UK Credit ought to have been too concerned about 
regarding his repayment history.
That said, I do think UK Credit ought to also have concerns about Mr Ms record of short-
term lending and the fact he held 3 open short-term loans when he asked for this one. It 
says it asked Mr M about these loans and considered this within its assessment. 
Mr M told UK Credit that he was going to use the loan for debt consolidation and told it what 
he was going to pay off. He told it 2 of the short-term loans would be repaid. I think it is 
reasonable for UK Credit to rely on what he has said here.
Mr M was living at home and told UK Credit that his parent paid the essential expenditure at 
home. I think when I consider how much Mr Ms verified monthly income was, and how little 
he declared to UK Credit he had in essential spend, I think the credit he had taken out was 
affordable for him. The repayment on the remaining credit commitments and the repayment 
for this loan did represent a fairly sizable proportion of his monthly income. But in the 
circumstances, I have already described, on balance, I think the loan was sustainably 
affordable for him.
The bank statements that Mr M supplied to UK Credit at the time of the loan application, 
showed that he was managing his account well. I can see that he did overspend, and this led 
to him taking out further credit, but also that this was in regards to non-essential expenditure. 
I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Mr M 
was facing any current problems in managing his finances. I think UK Credit was entitled to 
rely on what Mr M said about his finances, and what he intended to use the loan for. And 
that information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the 
loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. UK Credit said it had received the provisional decision. 
Mr M responded through his representatives. I have carefully read all of the comments 
his representatives have provided but have summarised what I think are his main points:
He says he doesnt agree with my findings or outcome in the provisional decision.
He says whilst getting this loan he had very difficult financial circumstances 
where he was using payday loans to deal with his day to day living expenses.
He explained a difficult time that he was having at the time of the loan 
application.
He says UK Credit didnt take into consideration his finances or the information 
given on his credit file properly and this has impacted his wellbeing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Mr Ms most recent submission carefully. I am sorry he has had a difficult time 
with regards to his finances and also his health. I also acknowledge the comments he had 
made regarding him taking out short term loans at the time he applied for this loan. 
I concluded in my provisional decision that UK Credit had carried out proportionate checks. 
This is because I felt it had all that it needed in front of it to assess whether the loan was 
affordable for Mr M or not. UK Credit could see that Mr M had three short term loans at that 
time and Mr M told it, he was going to use part of the proceeds of this loan to repay 2 of 
them. Again, I think it was entitled to rely on what Mr M had said here. So, by giving this loan 
to Mr M, it was giving him the chance to consolidate most of his short-term debt and make a 
more affordable monthly repayment. I think, based on what UK Credit would have had in 
front of it, it would have seen that the loan repayments were affordable for him. So, on 
balance, I dont think it did anything wrong when it agreed to this loan.I know this wont be the answer Mr M wanted and again, I am sorry that he has had 
difficulties in the past. But in conclusion, I do not uphold his complaint, for the reasons given 
above and in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman