DRN-3247262
The complaint
Mrs S complained about the value Admiral Insurance Company Limited put on her car after it 
was stolen, and she claimed under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ss car was unfortunately stolen from her house, along with the familys two other cars. 
Admiral offered her an amount for the cars market value. This was after they made certain 
deductions, including because the car had a total loss insurance marker on it which affected 
its value.
Mr S complained to Admiral on his wifes behalf. He said as follows. The car was worth more 
than what Admiral had paid Mrs S for its market value because it was a rare specification 
with extra features. Admiral had ignored all the evidence hed given them about this. Mrs S  
couldnt buy a like for like car at the time with Admirals settlement payment and that had 
since got further out of reach because used car prices had increased. So theyd been unable 
to afford a replacement car for about six months and had experienced inconvenience. Mr S 
wanted Admiral to compensate them for that and for how theyd handled the claim. He felt 
theyd delayed and caused him unnecessary anxiety, and hed had sleepless nights and 
depression. 
The investigator thought that Admirals valuation wasnt a fair reflection of the cars pre-loss 
market value and recommended that they increase the valuation and pay interest. Admiral 
agreed but Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs S our approach regarding complaints about car 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether 
the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the 
trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might 
include advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars 
usually sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any 
advertised prices.
It is standard practice for insurers to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And we dont think its unreasonable to do this. The guides provide 
valuations based on national research of the advertised and likely sales prices of similar 
cars, in a similar condition and with a similar mileage.
Ive looked at how Admiral valued Mrs Ss car. As the investigator explained, under the 
policy Admiral must pay the cars market value less the policy excess. The policy defines 
market value as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term market in which 
you would normally shop for your car e.g. Retail value, will not apply if you bought your car 
privately or at an auction.
Admiral s market value settlement offer to Mrs S was £21,924.00. They gave us this 
breakdown of it :
Market Value: £28,030.00
Deduction for previous Total Loss: 20%
Pro Rata Market Value: £22,424.00
Less Excess: £500
Net Settlement Figure: £21,924.00
Admiral showed us that they used two relevant trades guides and took £28,030.00 , the 
higher of those valuations, as their starting point. But that starting point took account of the 
sales channel through which Mrs S had bought her car, because of the above policy 
definition of market value. But as the investigator said, that wasnt fair, because the trade 
guides incorporate data about all sales channels and so we wouldnt expect an insurer to 
deduct anything further for that. Their valuations already take that into account. So I think 
that Admiral should have taken as their starting point the higher of the two trade guides 
valuations Admiral used but without making any deductions for sales channels. That 
valuation was £29,950.00. 
Admiral made a 20% deduction because of the cars previous total loss marker. I dont think 
that was unfair. This car total loss marker meant that the car had been damaged before and 
an insurer had previously decided that it wasnt economic for that insurer to pay for its repair. 
However the car was repairable and could go back on the road. Its accepted industry wide 
practice to make such a deduction because a total loss marker will affect a vehicles value, 
and the trade guides values dont account for that. So it was reasonable for Admiral to make 
that deduction. Applying that deduction of 20% to £29,950.00,and then deducting the £500 
policy excess, leaves £23,460.00. 
Mr S thinks that Admiral s valuation didnt consider the evidence he gave them of the cars 
good condition, its extra features and rare specification, or of private sale adverts for similar 
cars. I wont itemise the extras and features here as both parties are aware of them. But I 
can see from Admirals file that they did consider Mr Ss evidence. But they didnt agree that 
they added to the cars value. I dont think their view was unreasonable. We normally 
consider that extras like those wouldnt increase a cars value. Ive also taken into account 
the adverts Mr S provided but I dont agree that the car should be considered rare, and as 
Ive said above, adverts dont reflect actual selling prices and we find the guides are a better 
reflection of market value at any time. 
Mr S says that they couldnt afford a replacement for the car which meant the family had only 
two cars instead of three. He said that this made it inconvenient trying to juggle school runs 
and work commitments with only two cars for three drivers. 
He said they are even less able now to afford a replacement car because prices have gone 
up since his claim .But even if that were so, the theft was September 2020 and Admiral paid 
Mrs S the settlement in October, so I dont think there was any delay on their part. The 
settlement, while not as much as Mr and Mrs S may have wanted, would have been enough 
to purchase another car. And though I think Admiral should have used a higher starting 
point, and so should increase their valuation, I dont think that its fair to hold Admiral 
responsible for any increase in car prices after that.   I see that the experience of having three cars stolen from their home at once must have 
been distressing for Mrs S and Mrs S. Mr S feels that instead of helping him at such a 
stressful time Admirals actions added to the stress. He felt that theyd delayed and were 
negligent and this affected him financially, practically, and mentally. But although I agree that 
Admiral didnt value Mrs Ss car as they should have at first, I dont think that difference in 
values would have stopped them buying another car. I think that Admiral dealt with the claim 
within a reasonable time, and they explained their process to Mr and Mrs S. Its just that they 
didnt agree with their valuation. Although Ive found that Admiral didnt approach the 
valuation amount as they should, any effect of that is reasonably compensated for by the 
interest award. There will always be some element of inconvenience for a consumer in 
making an insurance claim, but I dont think that Admirals actions made the situation worse 
and so I dont think compensation is warranted.  
Putting things right
I think Admiral should pay Mrs S the difference between £21,924.00 and £23,460.00, which 
is £1,536.00, plus interest at 8%.  
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Admiral insurance Company Limited to :
pay Mrs S £1,536.00, and add 8% interest on that amount, from the date Admiral 
paid her the first market value until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from interest, they should tell Mrs S how much they have taken off, and give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
