DRN-3718110
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
What happened
Mr G was contacted on social media by an individual (Sarah) with a large following. Sarahs 
account was focussed on cryptocurrency trading and she showed how shed helped people 
make a lot of money. Mr G was persuaded to invest with Sarahs assistance and he signed 
up to a website called cryptomempol.com. 
Mr G was instructed to first purchase crypto using legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges Ill 
call C and B and on 11 January 2022 he made his initial investment payments of £150 and 
then £1,040. He made the payments using his HSBC Visa debit card linked to his current 
account. He loaded the crypto he purchased on what he believed was his online wallet. Mr 
Gs investment quickly increased and he wanted to withdraw his profits the following day, but 
the scammers asked him to pay withdrawal charges of £2,028 and £928 in Bitcoin  which 
he duly did (using his HSBC Visa debit card). 
Despite sending the money, he never received his profits and was asked to pay more money 
and Mr G realised at this point it was a scam. 
Mr G reported the scam to HSBC but it declined to refund him, so he referred his complaint 
to this office through a representative. 
One of our Investigators didnt think HSBC acted unfairly and he didnt think the payments 
were all that unusual for HSBC to have been required to intervene. Mr G didnt agree, his 
representative argued that the payments were highly unusual for Mr G and taken in quick 
succession. The representative said the Investigators reference to a previous large payment 
to a remittance company were common payments Mr G would make to his family abroad. 
The asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why. 
I dont think HSBC could reasonably have prevented the payments Mr G lost. This is 
because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, much of which Mr Gs representative has correctly referenced, HSBC should have 
taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, 
there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction. 
Ive first thought about whether HSBC could have identified that Mr G was paying a potential 
scammer but Ive noted that he didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. Ive also noted that Mr G had previously sent undisputed 
payments to one of the cryptocurrency exchanges (C) a number of times within the year 
leading up to the scam  so this wasnt a new payee to him. I also dont think that HSBC 
should have been concerned about C or B because as Ive said, these were legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges. 
Ive therefore thought about whether HSBC should have suspected Mr G could be falling 
victim to a potential fraud or scam, based on any significant change in the normal pattern of 
his spending. 
Ive taken into account what Mr Gs representative has said about the remittance company 
being a regular payee but in my view, the same logic applies to C as this wasnt a new 
payee to Mr G. 
I dont think the payments here were sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to 
reasonably say HSBC shouldnt have allowed the payments through without first getting in 
touch with Mr G to check everything was in order. 
When Mr G reported the scam to HSBC, I dont think recovery was an option for him. B and 
C would have carried out a service  which was converting his £sterling into crypto and 
sending it onto a wallet of his choosing. His dispute is with the scammers but he didnt pay 
them directly, so I dont think HSBC could have recovered his payments through the 
chargeback scheme. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr G and he will understandably feel aggrieved 
about his loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold HSBC liable 
for this.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Gs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman