DRN-3417118
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Advice Services Limited (LV) mis-sold him 
an income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2001, Mr M met with LVs adviser to discuss a range of financial matters. During the 
meeting, the adviser recommended that Mr M should take out an income protection 
insurance policy to protect his income in the event he became incapacitated through illness 
or accident. 
The policy was set-up in March 2002 and protected Mr Ms own occupation within the civil 
service. When the policy was set-up, it attracted a monthly premium of £33.90. After 26 
weeks, the policy would provide Mr M with a reduced monthly benefit of £298.17. And after 
52 weeks, the policy would provide a monthly benefit of £1334.34. These benefit periods 
were set-up to match Mr Ms sick pay provision from his employer of six months full pay and 
six months half pay. Both the policy premium and the monthly benefits were index-linked. Mr 
M was also entitled to a profit-share scheme.
In 2021, Mr M complained to LV about the way his policy had been sold to him. He received 
a statement from the plan administrator which he felt showed that were he to make a claim 
on the policy, whether at the 26-week point or the 52-week point, hed be entitled to no 
monthly benefit at all. Thats because when calculating what monthly benefit was due, the 
policy terms stated that the insurer would deduct any sick pay or personal pension payments 
from the payment. In this case, Mr M wouldve received half sick pay up until 52 weeks after 
he became incapacitated. And he said if hed been long-term sick, hed have been entitled to 
an ill-health retirement pension through a civil service scheme. This wouldve been off-set 
against any potential policy benefit.
Mr M cancelled the policy and received a profit-share payment.
LV considered Mr Ms complaint and partly upheld it. Based on Mr Ms sick pay provisions, it 
acknowledged that Mr M would never have been able to claim any benefit under the 26 
week part of the policy. So it concluded that this part of the recommendation hadnt been 
suitable for him. It offered to refund the premiums Mr M had paid for this part of the cover, 
together with interest.
However, it didnt agree that the policy cover after a 52 week deferred period was unsuitable 
for Mr M. So it didnt agree to refund the full premium hed paid.
Mr M was unhappy with LVs decision not to refund his full premiums and he asked us to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She agreed that the 26 
week deferred period part of the policy hadnt been suitable for Mr M. But based on the 
available information, she wasnt persuaded that Mr M had shown any potential ill-health 
retirement pension was guaranteed or that he wouldnt have been entitled to any monthly 
benefit under the policy.
Mr M disagreed. He said the aim of the insurance was to bring his income close to its 
existing level. The product didnt do this and could never have done so. He wouldnt have 
paid the premiums for such a small amount of cover. In terms of the pension scheme, he 
couldnt say hed be left with nothing, but that is only a small part of the cover hed thought 
he was paying for. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think LV has already made a fair offer 
of settlement of his complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that LVs adviser recommended that Mr M should take out the income 
protection policy. This means, in line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, they 
needed to check it was suitable for Mr Ms needs. And they also needed to provide him with 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information to decide if the policy was right for him. So 
Ill explore whether I consider LV met this obligation, based on the available evidence and 
what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.
Its clear that LV accepts that given Mr Ms employers sick pay provisions, hed never have 
been entitled to any policy benefit between 26 and 52 weeks. Thats because the terms of 
the insurers policy make it clear that sick pay (amongst other things) will be deducted from a 
monthly payment. LV concluded that given Mr M wouldve been entitled to full pay for six 
months and then half pay for the following six months of an incapacitating illness, he 
wouldnt have received any monthly benefit during this period. So it acknowledged that this 
part of its advisers recommendation wasnt suitable for Mr Ms needs. 
Accordingly, LV offered to refund Mr M the portion of the premiums hed paid in respect of 
the 26 weeks benefit, for the life of the policy, together with interest. In my view, this was an 
appropriate and fair response from LV, which put Mr M in the position hed have been in had 
this particular unsuitable recommendation not been made to him. Its also what Id have 
directed LV to do had it not already made such an offer.
However, even if one part of an advisers recommendation was unsuitable, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that all of their actions or advice were unsuitable. So Ive gone on to 
explore this point further.
Ive looked carefully at the reasons-why letter the adviser sent to Mr M following their 
meeting. It seems this was an in-person meeting to establish Mr Ms (and his partners) 
financial needs. The letter says that amongst other things, Mr M wanted to protect his 
income in the event of him suffering from long-term sickness or disability. It says that the 
adviser and Mr M had agreed that Mr Ms existing sick pay provision and state assistance 
would be insufficient for his needs, particularly after 12 months, when Mr Ms income would 
drop dramatically.
The letter goes on to state that after 12 months, the policy would provide a full monthly 
benefit of £1334.34. This would match the point at which Mr Ms employers sick pay would 
cease. The letter quoted a premium of £32.67 per month and stated that Mr M would be 
covered until the age of 60.Ahead of the reasons-why letter being sent to Mr M, the adviser was sent an illustration 
summary, setting out the relevant cover the insurer was prepared to offer. This states that 
after 52 weeks, Mr M would receive a monthly benefit of £1334.34. And the summary also 
says that a key features document was enclosed. Mr M has provided us with a copy of both 
documents. I note that page two sets out a section called Your Questions Answered. This 
includes the following information:
What benefit is payable?
1. How much can I receive?
The benefits stated in your policy (plus any subsequent increases), or 50% of your 'pre-
incapacity earnings' up to £50,000 a year, plus 33% of any excess, whichever is less.
The overall maximum benefit you can insure at outset is £5,000 per month.
At the time of sale, it seems Mr M was earning £32,000 per year. Gross, this would be a 
monthly income of broadly £2666.70. The monthly benefit recommended by the adviser 
appears to be 50% of Mr Ms monthly income. The full benefit was clearly stated in the 
reasons-why letter and in the illustration and appears to reflect the discussion Mr M had with 
the adviser. I think the totality of the advice and information Mr M was given ahead of opting 
to go ahead with the policy makes clear what the full monthly benefit would be and that this 
didnt match Mr Ms existing gross monthly income. It did match 50% of his income though, 
in line with the policy terms. Which means I think this recommendation appears to be broadly 
suitable. And I think Mr M had enough information to understand upfront that his full gross 
salary wouldnt be covered by this policy and to look elsewhere for an income protection 
policy if he wanted a higher level of monthly benefit. Therefore, I think he had enough clear 
information to allow him to make an informed choice about whether this policy met his 
needs.
Having carefully considered the evidence Ive seen, it appears to me that based on Mr Ms 
salary information at the time of sale, an income protection policy with a deferred period of 
52 weeks wouldve been a suitable recommendation. I say that firstly because based on the 
information he gave the adviser; it seems any sick pay entitlement Mr M wouldve received 
from his employer wouldve ended at this point. So had Mr M been incapacitated for longer 
than 52 weeks, the policy couldve provided a useful monthly income for him.
Ive borne in mind too that Mr M has said that he may have been entitled to an ill-health 
pension in the event that he became long-term sick. As the policy terms say the insurer will 
take private pension arrangements into account when calculating monthly benefit, Ive 
thought carefully about this point. However, having looked at the civil service ill-health 
pension information, it appears that in order for Mr M to qualify for it, he wouldve needed to 
be permanently incapacitated and wouldve needed to retire on medical grounds. In my view, 
this is a high threshold for payment. So it seems to me that the full monthly benefit couldve 
been a useful benefit for Mr M if he developed a long-term illness which didnt result in him 
needing to take medical retirement or to provide cover until such a time as he was medically 
retired. That wasnt cover that he had in place at the relevant time and therefore there was a 
gap in his income protection cover. And as such, I dont think the potential for Mr M to 
receive such a pension made the advisers recommendation unsuitable. 
As Ive set out above, the adviser needed to provide Mr M with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy in good time, so he could decide whether it was right for him. 
The illustration dated 11 June 2001, which was sent to the adviser, sets out the main policy 
details and included a key features document. These set out important information about the 
policy. The key features document, which Mr M seems to have had set out the key terms of the 
insurance contract. This explained what benefit was payable and explained what deductions 
might be made from a monthly benefit. Mr M was subsequently set a policy schedule which 
set out the applicable full monthly benefit and the premium hed need to pay. It was down to 
Mr M to check the overall documentation to ensure it accorded with the recommendation 
hed been given. And he had a 14 day cooling-off period to cancel the policy if it didnt work 
in the way he thought it would. Im also mindful that the policy wasnt effected until March 
2002  around nine months after the initial meeting. This suggests Mr M had some time to 
decide if he wanted to go ahead with the sale.
All in all, I agree that the adviser made an unsuitable recommendation in respect of the 26 
week deferred period part of the policy. LV made a fair offer to refund the premiums Mr M 
paid for this part of the policy, together with interest, before Mr M brought his complaint to 
us. Im satisfied this was a fair response. In terms of the 52-week deferred period part of the 
policy, it seems to me that the policy the adviser recommended matched Mr Ms 
requirements based on the information and evidence LV was given. While I entirely 
understand why Mr M now feels the policy was of no benefit to him, especially following his 
salary increases during the life of the policy, at the time of sale, I find the 52-week 
recommendation was a suitable one based on his circumstances at that time.
Id add too that there wasnt an ongoing responsibility on LV to review Mr Ms needs over 
time. An adviser can only give advice based on the information available to them at the point 
of sale. This means it was Mr Ms responsibility to regularly check whether the policy still met 
his needs as his salary increased. 
So overall, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that LV acted unreasonably when it 
sold Mr M the 52-week deferred period part of the policy. This means Im not directing it to 
refund the premiums he paid for this portion of cover or to increase its existing settlement 
offer. Its now open to Mr M to get in touch with LV directly should he wish to accept its offer 
in respect of the 26-week part of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman