DRN-3136751
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded money she lost as a result of a 
scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In July 2020 Miss L was contacted by a 
merchant about investing in cryptocurrency. After speaking with the merchant, Miss L was 
told she would be taught how to trade and could see her investments on a trading platform. 
So, Miss L decided to start sending money to the merchant via legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchanges and privately held wallets that she set up. In total she sent around £109,000 from 
her Barclays account across eight transactions. 
Miss L started to become suspicious in August 2020 when she couldnt withdraw her funds. 
After repeated requests to withdraw her money, Miss L contacted Barclays to raise a claim. 
Barclays began its investigation and contacted the receiving banks to try and retrieve the 
funds. Barclays said it wasnt going to refund the money to Miss L, but it did offer £100 for 
the poor service it provided when investigating the scam. Unhappy with this, she decided to 
bring her complaint to this service. 
Miss L said she decided to start investing after her sister was diagnosed with a serious 
condition. So, she reached out to family and friends to borrow money to put towards the 
scam. She feels Barclays failed in its duty of care to protect her money and to flag and ask 
questions about the payments she was making. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the first payment 
Miss L made was international so wasnt covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) and the remaining payments were to an account Miss L held in her name at 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges or e-wallets she had set up. So, the actual cause of 
Miss Ls loss was when she transferred her funds to the fraudster from her account at the 
cryptocurrency exchanges and wallets. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss L didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss L has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In this particular case, Im afraid the CRM code doesnt apply. I say this because, the CRM 
code refers to Authorised Push Payments where the transfer of funds is transferred to 
another person. In this case, the first transaction Miss L made was international, which isnt 
covered by the CRM. She then transferred money from her Barclays account to another 
account in her name with the cryptocurrency exchanges and to her e-wallets, which she had 
control of, before transferring the money to the scammers. So, as Miss L had control of her 
accounts at the cryptocurrency exchanges and her e-wallets, I cant consider her complaint 
under the CRM here. 
It is common ground that Miss L authorised the scam payments totalling around £109,000. I 
accept that these were authorised payments even though Miss L was the victim of a scam. 
So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her account, Miss L is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
Practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Barclays to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Miss L to Barclays (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to her typical account activity. 
Miss L has said that she had never sent such a large amount of money (around £109,000) in 
one month before and her transactions towards this scam shouldve flagged with Barclays. 
Barclays have said that the reason Miss L gave for the purchases when making the online 
transfers was buying goods which is why it wasnt flagged for more thorough checks on its 
systems. It said Miss L shouldve selected the Investment option. It added that the initial 
international payment towards this scam was referred and confirmed genuine by text, 
however Barclays believe that had they spoken to Miss L they wouldnt have been able to 
prevent the scam. Thats because there were no warnings available to refer about the 
merchant involved in the scam and Miss L had made large card payments for trading 
purposes before and after the scam took place. 
So, Ive reviewed the account statements around the time Miss L made the payments in 
question here to get a better understanding of whether Barclays speaking to her about the 
payments she was making wouldve made a difference. The account typically maintained a 
healthy balance which ranged between around £700 and on occasions up to around 
£20,000. And there were transactions to an investment platform in May 2020 with the largest 
being £10,000. Ive seen on her statements that there were outgoing payments (including to 
accounts in Miss Ls name) totalling over £70,000 the month before the first scam payment, 
with large payments going to a regulated trading platform. Also, in April 2020, £16,000 was 
sent to the same regulated trading platform across seven transactions all on the same day.
The investigator said that a payment Miss L made towards this scam of £25,000 in July 2020 
shouldve reasonably stood out to Barclays and prompted it to ask Miss L further questions 
about that payment as well. I think its arguable that it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays not 
to stop that payment and ask questions of Miss L. Thats because of Miss Ls previous 
pattern of spending towards investments the previous month. But even if Barclays had spoken to Miss L about any of the payments and asked her questions, I dont think it 
wouldve made a difference. 
Thats because Miss L held the account with the cryptocurrency exchanges and had been 
making large transfers the month before to a regulated trading platform. There were also no 
warnings about the merchant on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website for Barclays to 
refer to. Miss L has explained that initially things were going well with the trading through the 
merchant with her balance growing exponentially and she received a payment from one of 
the cryptocurrency exchanges whilst the scam was ongoing. 
Miss L also told Barclays when the scam was raised that she completed her own research 
into the merchant online where she found positive reviews and that she checked several 
scam check websites. So, I think she would have also told this to Barclays to show that she 
had conducted her own research and was happy to proceed with the payments. As a result, 
Im not satisfied a fraud and scams warning wouldve made a difference here. 
Miss L has confirmed that when she made payments to the cryptocurrency exchanges these 
were moved to the scammers immediately and has shown evidence of this. I note Barclays 
did contact the receiving banks here to see if any funds remained, but there was nothing left. 
That was to be expected as Miss L has mentioned she used the cryptocurrency exchange 
and wallets only to convert her funds into cryptocurrency before moving to the scammer. So, 
Im satisfied there wasnt any money for Barclays to return to Miss L here. 
Miss L also made a debit card payment to a cryptocurrency exchange. But Im not satisfied 
she wouldve been able to raise a chargeback for that payment as the money was sent to 
purchase crypto which was subsequently sent to a wallet as per her instructions, so she 
received the service she paid for. So, I dont think Barclays treated her unfairly by not raising 
a chargeback here. 
Barclays offered £100 for the poor service provided to Miss L when investigating her claim. I 
think thats a fair offer and in line with what I would have suggested. 
Im sorry to hear Miss L lost the funds to the scammers. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman