DRN-3384329
The complaint
Mr K has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
account in July 2007. 
Mr K says that he never agreed to this account and did not need the benefits that it came 
with.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advance account 
had been mis-sold or that HSBC did anything else wrong. Mr K disagreed, so his complaint 
was passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Mr K. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but Id like to assure him that I have 
considered everything he has provided and said. I think it would be helpful to explain, that 
where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as they are here, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. There is also very 
little information that HSBC has been able to provide from the time of sale, which is 
unsurprising given the timescales involved.
Ive started by considering whether or not Mr K was given a fair choice in opening his 
account. In this case, I can see that Mr K already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to 
opening the Advance account  so I think he was aware that fee-free accounts existed and 
were an option for him. Mr K said he did not agree to this upgrade, but had that been the 
case I wouldve expected him to query the charges on this account, or why he was receiving 
documents about an account that he had not agreed to. I also note that he downgraded the 
account back to a fee free account in 2013. Had he never agreed to the account in the first 
instance, I wouldve expected him to have queried this at this point.
So I think it likely that Mr K was aware that the account was optional and he agreed to it 
knowing that he did not have to have it if he did not wish to do so, albeit that this may be in 
circumstances that he no longer recalls. I also can see various other transactions that 
suggests overseas travel. Given that one of the features of the account was travel insurance 
and fee free overseas cash withdrawals, it suggests that this was possibly why the account 
was taken out. So, when taking everything that I have seen on this case into account, I think 
its more likely than not that Mr K agreed to the Advance account. And this was likely 
because he was attracted (at least initially) to the features it offered, rather than because he 
felt he had no choice.
I note that Mr K has explained that he only travels to the republic of Ireland and is an Irish 
Citizen, so does not need the travel insurance as he could use the Irish medical system 
without charge. I should explain that Travel insurance does not just cover medical claims it 
also covers a person for cancellation or curtailment of holiday, so just because one aspect of 
the insurance may not be as useful to him it does not mean he could not use it at all. Also, I 
can see transaction to other countries, so I think that he could have relied on this cover at 
that point if he wished to do so.
Mr K has mentioned that he did not need the breakdown cover that came with the account, I 
can confirm that at the time the account was taken out this was not a benefit that the account 
came with. So I dont think that it is relevant to whether the account was sold correctly in the 
first instance.
My understanding of HSBCs sales process at the time the account was taken out was that it 
did not make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for a 
customer. It did though have to give Mr K enough information to allow him to do this himself. 
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Mr K all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But I think the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific about the benefits of the account 
that Mr K may not have been told that wouldve likely altered his decision to take out the 
account. 
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr K may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money, and he may now regret opening a fee-paying account. I also 
note that over the years the benefits have changed and now include benefits that he does 
not need.
But overall Ive not seen enough for me to say that he was mis-sold the Advance account in 
the first instance. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the 
fees Mr K has paid for the account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman