DRN-3339495
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt extend his mortgage offer in line with a general
extension that it granted on 15 January 2021. As a result, Mr C says that hes not been able
to take advantage of the lower interest rate that would have been available in that offer.
What happened
Santander provided Mr C with a mortgage offer in August 2020 which was valid until
31 December 2020. Mr C didnt use the loan by that date as he hadnt yet exchanged
contracts and the mortgage offer lapsed. On 15 January 2021 Santander informed its broker
network that all new business mortgage applications submitted prior to 31 December 2020
would automatically be granted a two-month offer extension. Mr Cs broker informed Mr C
that the extension applied to his application.
Santander said that the extension didnt apply to mortgage offers that had expired but only to
applications still live on 15 January 2021, so it didnt apply to Mr C. The fact that the
mortgage offer expired, Santander described as a material change in the application.
Following this, Santander issued a number of subsequent mortgage offers to Mr C on the
same property. Mr C completed in June 2021 but with a higher interest rate than on the
original offer.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He felt that
Mr Cs hopes had unreasonably been raised and that it was reasonable for him to assume
that his lapsed mortgage offer could be extended. Our investigator suggested Santander pay
compensation of £200 for the disappointment he suffered. Mr C disagreed saying in
summary that he didnt believe the compensation was fair. Santander also disagreed saying
that its communication was with the broker and the broker should have known, as Mr Cs
application had expired, the extension wouldnt have applied to him and managed Mr Cs
expectations accordingly.
My provisional decision
As my view differed from that of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision in this matter 
set out below:
Mr Cs original offer expired on 31 December 2020. Mr Cs broker got an email on 15
January 2021 saying that if they had applications that were submitted prior to 31 December
2020 that Santander would grant those a two month offer extension. As Mr Cs application
had expired it didnt apply to his application. But Mr Cs broker thought it did and forwarded
the communication to him. Santanders position is that the broker should have known that
as the extension only applied to applications that were live on 15 January 2021, it didnt
apply to Mr Cs expired offer. It also says that it wasnt responsible for the communication to
Mr C but the broker who should have managed his expectations.
On balance, I dont believe that the fault for Mr Cs disappointment lies with Santander.
Incorrect information was passed to Mr C that Santander had granted a two-month extension
to his offer but that was from the broker not from Santander. The broker would have been
aware that the offer had expired, and I dont think it was reasonable for the broker to assume
that the communication from Santander referred to expired offers rather than those that were
still live. If there was doubt about whether the concession applied or not, I would have
thought that it would have been reasonable for the broker to contact Santander before
forwarding Santanders communication to Mr C.
Finally, Santander says that it refused to revive the application because its expiry meant that
there was a material change in the application. That seems a rather complex way of putting
it, but the basis of the refusal seems clear enough. As the mortgage offer had already
expired by 15 January 2021 and no longer existed, it couldnt be extended. Im also aware
that our role is to put consumers in the position they would have been if nothing had gone
wrong. In this case, even if the communication from Santander was unclear, I accept that
Santander wasnt offering to extend all mortgage offers including expired ones from before
31 December 2020. So, Mr C never would have been given the extension that he wants and
I cant fairly require Santander to give it to him now. For the above reasons my intention is
not to uphold this complaint.
Before coming to a final decision on this complaint I invited submissions from Mr C and from 
Santander. I have had no further submissions from Santander. Mr C says that the email of 
15 January 2021 was sent by his broker after a phone conversation with Santander and 
wonders whether Ive listened to phone conversations between the broker and Santander as 
part of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision and invited submissions from both parties. Mr C has asked 
me to look again at the email from his broker of 15 January which he says followed a phone 
conversation with Santander. But that doesnt appear to be the case. The email from 
Santander to the broker is timed at 09.32 on 15 January and appears to be directed to 
Santanders broker network generally from an email address that doesnt accept incoming 
emails. It doesnt appear to have been preceded by a phone call. It is then forwarded a few 
minutes later by the broker. 
There is no indication of a phone call in the six minutes in between and whilst there is a 
reference in the forwarding email to the incoming email and a phone call at some time with 
the selling agent, there is no reference to any phone call with Santander, so I consider that 
such a phone call was unlikely to have occurred. In any case as I said in my provisional 
decision it wasnt Santanders intention to extend all mortgages including expired ones from 
31 December 2020 so, Mr C wouldnt have been given the extension he wanted.
Ive reviewed this complaint in light of Mr Cs further submission and the evidence Ive been 
provided with to date and my opinion is that my provisional decision represents a fair 
outcome to this complaint. So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman