DRN-1854288
 
The complaint
Mr K complains American Express Services Europe Limited didnt prevent a fraudulent 
transaction on his account.
What happened
Mr K received an email on 11 December 2019 asking him to authorise an online payment. 
Mr K didnt recognise the transaction so called American Express to try to stop it going 
through and alert them to the issue. American Express refunded the fraudulent transaction to 
his account and also blocked the card and reissued him a new one to help prevent any 
further fraudulent activity.  
Mr K was unhappy because the fraudulent transaction was allowed to go through even 
though he hadnt authorised it, when he was asked to do so by American Express in an 
email. Mr K was also unhappy with the time taken to get his replacement card and felt it 
meant he lost out on potential offers available to him, so he complained to them. American 
Express considered his complaint but didnt accept they had done anything wrong and said 
the authorisation email may have related to a different transaction. They confirmed they had 
refunded the unauthorised transaction and removed it completely from his account. 
Mr K remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our Service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt think American Express had done anything wrong in 
either dealing with the fraudulent transaction or in replacing the card. Mr K disagreed with 
our investigator and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. 
I realise Mr K will be disappointed by my decision. 
Mr K remains unhappy that the fraudulent transaction was allowed to go through and feels 
American Express hasnt adhered to their security procedures to protect his account. What I 
need to consider is if the actions American Express took were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions provided by American Express and they say Mr K 
wouldnt be responsible for any transactions not authorised by him. They also say their fraud 
control measures reduces unauthorised online use it doesnt say it will be able to 
prevent all unauthorised activity. Its unfortunate Mr Ks account was subject to this 
unauthorised transaction and I can understand it would have been a difficult time for him, but 
I dont think its reasonable to expect American Express to be able to prevent all types of 
fraud, as there will be times even with security features that fraudulent transactions 
happened.
What they should do is put things right for customers once they are alerted to the 
unauthorised activity. American Express hasnt held Mr K liable for the fraudulent transaction 
- they have refunded it and removed it completely from Mr Ks account, that was the right 
thing to do and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr K has said he missed out on some card offers and the potential interest free period for 
using is card. I appreciate this would have been frustrating for him, but I think it was 
reasonable of American Express to block the card to prevent any further unauthorised 
activity. And I havent seen anything to suggest American Express delayed sending the 
replacement card to him, so I dont think its done anything wrong here either.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr K has said, and although I may not have 
highlighted everything hes said in this decision, I want him to know Ive read it and taken it 
into account. But overall, Im satisfied American Express havent treated Mr K unreasonably, 
so I wont be asking them to take any other action.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman