DRN-2666994
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard offered her an 
unaffordable credit limit on her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs S says she received a letter from Barclaycard in April 2020 telling her the credit limit on 
her credit card account was too high. She says Barclaycard upheld her complaint and 
offered her £75 compensation, but she says the credit limit mistake led to financial hardship 
and a default being registered on her credit file. Mrs S would like the debt of over £5,000 
written off and the default removed.
Barclaycard says it wrote to some customers to tell them a credit limit may have been set too 
high. It says Mrs Ss account was opened in February 2017 and she took advantage of a 
zero percent balance transfer offer. It also says Mrs S made all required payments until in 
July 2018, due to her change in personal circumstances, she told it she was in financial 
difficulties. Barclaycard says it refunded charges and agreed a plan but Mrs S was unable to 
keep to it and so it closed the account and registered a default in October 2018.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclaycard had dealt fairly 
with it by paying a fair and reasonable level of compensation. The investigator thought 
Barclaycard had carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability checks on the 
application and that Mrs S managed the account appropriately until July 2018. The 
investigator thought Barclaycard tried to help Mrs S and thought she benefited from the 
balance transfer offer and that the affordability problems were caused by the change in 
personal circumstances.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclaycard accepts it made a mistake 
and says its lending decision caused her spending to spiral out of control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at what Barclaycard told Mrs S about the credit limit and can see that 
it said it may have set the limit too high. Im satisfied that Barclaycard has fairly apologised 
for any inconvenience and distress Mrs S may have been caused and paid what I think is a 
fair and reasonable compensation amount of £75.
I appreciate Mrs S would like the amount she owes Barclaycard written off. But I find that 
would be unfair for the reasons I will explain. Im satisfied that Mrs S had the benefit of the 
money and was able to spend it as she wished. I also think that Mrs S benefited from the 
balance transfer offer.
I have looked at Mrs Ss application for the credit card account in 2017 and Im satisfied 
Barclaycard carried out appropriate and proportionate checks on it. I can see Mrs S was in 
employment and that she managed the account appropriately for well over a year before the 
difficulties in July 2018. I think that provides evidence that the account was affordable and 
that it was Mrs Ss change in personal circumstances that caused the financial difficulties 
rather than the lending decision.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard has acted in such a way here. I can see it stopped and refunded 
charges and tried to agree a repayment plan. Im satisfied that it was clear that Mrs S 
couldnt afford a realistic repayment plan and so I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by registering a default on Mrs Ss credit file in October 2018. Im also 
satisfied that by that stage it was clear the relationship between Mrs S and Barclaycard had 
broken down and that Barclaycard was obliged to accurately report the account position to 
the Credit Reference Agencies. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by either defaulting the account or by reporting that in line with its obligations.
I accept that its likely that Barclaycards letter about the possibility of a credit limit being set 
too high led to Mrs S question if she had been unfairly treated by it. I cant see any evidence 
Mrs S considered that Barclaycard had acted unfairly up to that point. For the reasons I have 
explained I cant fairly order this debt be written off or that Barclaycard increase its 
compensation offer. 
I think this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman