DRN-2023429
The complaint
Mrs L is complaining about the adequacy of servicing British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) provided under her Home Care insurance agreement. She says its failings meant she 
had to replace a boiler at a cost of over £2,000.
What happened
Mrs L had a Home Care agreement with British Gas for many years. It provided some 
annual checks of equipment in her home  for example the gas central heating system and 
pipework. She ended the agreement in early 2019, and about a year later her boiler failed 
and had to be replaced.
Mrs L had two engineers who specialised in her type of boiler look at it, and both said they 
didnt think it had been serviced in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. They 
said this had contributed to the breakdown of the boiler.
Mrs L  helped by a family member  complained to British Gas. British Gas said it had 
serviced her boiler as it had described in the insurance policy, and complied with all the 
relevant laws and regulations applying to gas boilers. It went on to say that if Mrs L had still 
been insured, the damage would have been covered: unfortunately shed cancelled the 
cover so it couldnt help.
Mrs L asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask British Gas to do more. He said the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ls policy outlined what British Gas was going to do at each annual 
service and it appeared British Gas had done this. He explained the policy didnt require 
British Gas to service the boiler in line with the manufacturers recommendations. Overall he 
didnt think British Gas had done anything wrong.
Mrs L remains unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read carefully the descriptions given in Mrs Ls insurance contract for servicing. There is 
a definition of annual service  but this only includes checking that the boiler is both safe 
and operating properly. If it is, nothing more is done. The policy terms and conditions do say 
that if problems are found they will be fixed, but theres no regular routine of replacing parts 
unless they arent working. 
British Gas sent in the records of work that had been done over the years and most recently 
in 2018. It appears the work was carried out as the policy describes.
Mrs L says two other engineers said the boiler hadnt been serviced properly and this 
contributed to the breakdown. I havent seen any direct evidence that this is so, but I dont 
think this affects my decision as British Gas wasnt required to carry out full services unless 
their tests showed there was something wrong.
I do understand why Mrs L, with the benefit of hindsight, might have expected British Gas to 
have done more on its annual visits. However I cant say its done anything wrong when its 
done the level of work described in the policy. Im also aware that the policy didnt just cover 
an annual check of the boiler  it also provided cover against breakdowns and damage 
caused to several items, including the boiler, in Mrs Ls home.
If Mrs L thinks British Gas didnt comply with the relevant laws and regulations applicable to 
gas appliances she could contact the regulatory body responsible for this. Unfortunately this 
service cant look at this for her  I can only decide if British Gas complied with the terms 
and conditions in her policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman