DRN-2914225
The complaint
Mr B complains about AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust). His complaint relates to 
AmTrusts rejection of a claim he made under his household items accidental damage 
insurance policy. The items covered were two sofas and the policy covered the cost of 
removing stains or repairing damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accidental event.
References to AmTrust include its agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr B made a claim for damage caused to two sofas that were covered by 
an accidental damage policy taken out at the time that he bought them. The damage was 
caused by a pet scratching the sofas while Mr B wasnt at home. Mr B stated in the claim 
form that the damage was caused in November 2020.
 
AmTrust considered the claim but declined it. They said that, from the photographs of the 
damage, the damage affected most of the surface of the sofas. AmTrust considered this was 
inconsistent with it being caused in a single incident, and that it had occurred gradually over 
time. Mr B was unhappy at his claim being declined, saying that they delayed reporting the 
damage as he thought AmTrust were closed due to Covid. AmTrust said that they had 
remained open, so the claim could have been reported sooner.
Mr B was unhappy at his claim being declined and complained to AmTrust. AmTrust 
subsequently replied to Mr B in a Final Response Letter, which confirmed the decision to 
decline the claim. In reaching this decision, AmTrust drew attention to the terms and 
conditions of the policy which excluded damage caused by anything that happened gradually 
or over a sustained period.
Mr B was unhappy at AmTrusts response and complained to this service. The main element 
of his complaint was that AmTrust had declined his claim. Mr B said that he had wanted to 
make the claim earlier but wasnt sure whether AmTrust were open during Covid restrictions.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that Mr B could have made his 
claim earlier, as AmTrust had remained open during the period of Covid restrictions. The 
investigator also concluded that the evidence from AmTrust and the photographs of the 
sofas indicated that the damage was to most of the sofas. This wasnt consistent with having 
been caused by a single event, suggesting the damage had occurred gradually over time.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In asking for a review Mr B challenged the use of the policy exclusion as being 
too broad and that it didnt specify the type of damage that may have occurred. He also drew 
attention to other terms and conditions of the policy that referred to damage caused by pets. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AmTrust has acted fairly towards Mr B.
Mr Bs complaint is, firstly, he would have made the claim sooner but wasnt sure AmTrust 
was open due to Covid restrictions. Secondly, AmTrusts decline of the claim itself.
On the first issue, I note what Mr B told us that his sofas had been damaged, but he wasnt 
aware that AmTrust had remained open during Covid restrictions. So when he did contact 
AmTrust he became aware that he could have made his claim sooner.
In any event, I think the second issue is key, as AmTrust would have assessed his claim in 
the same way whatever date he had made his claim.
AmTrust have based their decline of the claim on a report prepared by one of their 
assessors, which also includes photographs of the sofas. The report concludes that: There 
are cat scratches over the majority of the suite consistent with abuse/neglect
Ive also considered AmTrusts point about the extent of damage being inconsistent with a 
one-off event and that the damage would have occurred gradually over time. Looking at the 
report, as well as the photographs Im persuaded that this is likely to have been the case.
 
Mr B has said that the exclusion is too broad and doesnt specify the type of damage. Ive 
considered this, but dont agree. By its nature, [accidental] damage will encompass many 
eventualities and it isnt practical to list them all (either to include or exclude them for cover). 
Insurers consider the specific circumstances of each claim, and I think thats reasonable. 
Mr B also pointed to other sections in the terms and conditions of the policy that refer 
specifically to scratches, where caused by pets. The extract of the policy provided by Mr B 
states: Where such damage is caused by pets, cover is limited to pet damage occurring up 
to a maximum of two occasions during the period of insurance.
Ive considered this, but I dont think it contradicts the exclusion of damage occurring 
gradually over time. The word occasions also indicates one-off events, rather than things 
that happen gradually over time.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that AmTrust have acted reasonably and in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy in declining Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman