DRN-3563763
The complaint
Representatives acting for a company, which Ill refer to as V, have complained about 
Great Lakes Insurance SEs handling of a claim on Vs coach and bus insurance policy.
The policy is administered on Great Lakes behalf by a separate company. But, as 
Great Lakes remains responsible for complaints concerning claims against the policy, I 
will only refer to Great Lakes in this decision even where the actions were taken by the 
administration company on its behalf.
Provisional decision 
On 31 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision. For ease of reading I've copied the 
relevant extract below.
What happened
V is a travel company which insures its fleet of vehicles on a policy underwritten by 
Great Lakes.
One of Vs coaches broke down while on a trip. V said that happened after the coachs sump 
was damaged when it hit a speedbump or pothole in the road. The coach suffered a sudden 
oil leak and subsequent catastrophic damage to the engine. V initially recovered the coach 
itself and employed engineering firms to try to fix it, but as the extent of the damage became 
apparent, V chose to claim on its policy for the repairs.
Great Lakes investigated the claim, including instructing independent engineers to examine 
the coach. It also asked investigators to interview the coach driver and Vs director. Further, 
it made enquiries of the local council about the condition of the road surface. After 
Great Lakes had done so it refused to pay Vs claim. It said it didnt think the damage to the 
coach was caused by it hitting a speedbump.
V didnt agree and brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He 
didnt think Great Lakes needed to take any further action. V didnt agree so the complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Great Lakes fairly refuse to pay the claim?
Vs policy covers its vehicles including its coach for loss or damage caused in an accident; 
which would include hitting an object in the road, including a speedbump or pothole. But it 
wouldn't cover any damage caused by wear and tear or any kind of mechanical breakdown. 
So, in order for Vs claim to be covered the coachs damage would need to have been 
caused in an accident.
V didnt report the incident to Great Lakes straightaway. Instead it tried to repair the coach 
itself, employing engineering firms to fit new parts to it in the hope that it could repair the 
coach. But those repairs weren't successful as the coach was more badly damaged than Vs 
repairers had suspected. So V claimed on the policy.
Great Lakes sent out independent engineers to assess the damage to the coach. When the 
engineer arrived the coachs engine had been removed and the sump had been separated 
from the engine. So the independent engineer didnt see all the parts as they would have 
been at the time of the incident. The engineer said he couldn't assess the extent of the 
damage to the engine without it being stripped. So Great Lakes arranged for the coach and 
engine to be moved to one of the coachs manufacturers workshops in order to do that.
Once the manufacturers engineers had stripped the engine, the manufacturer found that the 
engine had numerous issues, including that the engine block was cracked, the cam shaft 
seized, and that an earlier repair attempt had done damage to wires and pipes. The 
manufacturer said the engine was beyond repair.
The independent engineers said they didn't think the damage to the sump and consequently 
the engine could have been caused by hitting a speedbump. In a series of reports they said 
that the sump itself showed no sign of a dent or distortion consistent with hitting something 
that would cause the damage. They added that there were other chassis structures around 
the sump that would have either acted to protect the sump or otherwise would have been 
damaged in the incident. And without evidence of that damage to the surrounding chassis 
structures the independent engineers didnt believe that the damage could have been 
caused by hitting a speedbump or other object in the road. And on that basis Great Lakes 
refused to pay Vs claim.
V disputed the independent engineers assessments. It suggested that, as Great Lakes 
instructed the engineers itself then they can't be considered independent. But while I can 
certainly understand why V might think that, given that Great Lakes paid for the engineers 
reports, I dont think the independent engineers have much to gain by giving something other 
than their professional opinions. The use of independent engineers of this nature is common 
in the insurance industry. And the engineers are paid for their time, expertise and giving their 
professional opinion. They are not instructed, nor paid more or less, on the basis that their 
opinion might be favourable to an insurer. And I've seen no evidence, beyond Vs concerns, 
that the independent engineers opinions were biased in favour of Great Lakes. So I dont 
intend to discount that evidence.
V also pointed out that engineering firms it instructed, for example a firm hired to try to repair 
the coach, said that the damage was caused by the sump hitting a solid object causing it to 
crack. So I'm faced with conflicting evidence about what caused the damage to the sump. 
And in those circumstances, I need to examine all the evidence to establish what I believe 
has happened. I should say that I dont have any engineering qualifications, I dont need 
them in order to decide what is a fair outcome to this complaint. Instead I need to weigh up 
the evidence carefully and come to a conclusion based on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, I need to decide whats more likely than not to have happened.
Having done so, I'm not persuaded that the damage to the coach was caused by it hitting a 
speedbump, pothole or object in the road. Apart from the opinion of the independent 
engineer Great Lakes initially instructed, I've noted that there are other engineering opinions 
on file which also argue that damage of the sort the coach suffered could not be caused in 
the manner described in Vs claim. Indeed, one of those opinions was given in a report from 
an engineer commissioned by Vs representatives. So that engineer was working for V, albeit indirectly. That report agrees with the independent engineers Great Lakes instructed, 
that the damage to the sump wasnt caused by striking an object in the road. Similarly, 
theres comment on Great Lakes file about the likely cause of the engine failure from 
engineers employed by a vehicle repairer. The second is a senior engineer. Both of them 
said that, if the coach had hit something with enough force to split the sump, then it would 
have done damage to the surrounding chassis. But no such damage was present. 
V submitted some photos taken at the scene which, amongst other things, show a hole in 
the sump. Great Lakes asked the independent engineer whether Vs images changed his 
opinion of what caused the sump damage. The engineer said it didnt. He said that if the 
sump had been damaged by striking an object then there would be denting or distortion to it. 
But there was no such evidence of that sort of damage. And I'm persuaded by that 
comment.
So, while I've noted that there is engineering evidence to support Vs view that the damage 
was caused by the sump striking something, the overwhelming weight of engineering 
opinions is thats unlikely to have been the cause of the damage. And in those 
circumstances, V doesn't have a valid claim on its policy as it hasn't provided persuasive 
evidence that an incident it could claim for took place. So I think Great Lakes turned down 
the claim fairly.
Did Great Lakes address Vs concerns about the coach bodywork and some replaced 
engine components fairly?
V has also complained that Great Lakes agents caused other damage to the coach while in 
its possession. Great Lakes made an offer of £1,000 to compensate for damage to the 
coachs bodywork. I note V said it would accept Great Lakes offer. I further note that 
Great Lakes asked V to submit its bank details so it could make that payment. While its not 
clear if the payment has actually been made, if it hasnt then, on receipt of the appropriate 
details, Great Lakes should make that payment now. I think that would be a reasonable 
conclusion to that matter.
V also said that Great Lakes agents had allowed new parts, which V bought in order to try to 
repair the engine, to corrode, in particular theyve referred to crankshaft components. And V 
has provided photos that show that the crankshaft has corroded and is beyond use.
I have some sympathy with Vs position here. It bought the new parts in an attempt to repair 
the coach without needing to claim on the policy. But, when Great Lakes returned the engine 
to it, some of those parts, most notably the crankshaft and associated components had been 
exposed to the elements and had become corroded. That shouldnt have happened if those 
had been taken care of. Great Lakes had previously argued that once the engine had lost oil 
then those components were always subject to corrosion. But, I'm not persuaded by that. As 
far as I'm aware brand new parts won't generally arrive at a repairers covered in oil. So I 
don't think it was the absence of oil that caused them to corrode. And if the engine wasnt 
going to be rebuilt then the parts should have been given sufficient protection from exposure 
to the elements that would prevent them from corroding.
Im aware that it was while the coach was with the manufacturers engineers that the 
corrosion occurred. And Great Lakes has said that it had no control over the acts of those 
engineers. That might be the case, but the coach was only with the manufacturer because 
Grate Lakes wanted their assistance. So the manufacturer was acting as Great Lakes 
agents in the matter. And in those circumstances Great Lakes would remain responsible for 
putting right any additional damage caused to the coach or its salvageable component parts 
by the manufacturer. It follows that I think Great Lakes is responsible for putting V back into 
the position it would have been in if the parts hadnt corroded.Vs confirmed that it has had the coach repaired but it wasnt able to use the corroded 
crankshaft components. So I think it fair that Great Lakes, on receipt of appropriate 
evidence, reimburses V for the costs it had to pay to replace those crankshaft components 
which were corroded while in Great Lakes agents care. Great Lakes should add simple 
interest to the sum reimbursed as set out below. 
Neither Great Lakes nor V provided any substantive comments to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Great Lakes nor V have raised any points that call my provisional decision into 
question. So I see no reason to change it
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to:
Reimburse V for the cost of replacing the corroded crankshaft components. 
It should add simple interest to the sum reimbursed from the date V paid for the 
replacement crankshaft parts to the date Great Lakes reimburses it, subject to V 
providing evidence to Great Lakes of buying and making payment for the replaced 
parts in a timely manner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman