DRN-2662044
The complaint
 Mrs P has complained about what she considers to have been unnecessary switching and 
poor investment management of her Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) arrangements by J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited (JES), along 
with excessive charges being levied on those investments.
What happened
 I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 5 February 2021, in which I said I was 
minded to uphold it. A copy of that decision is set out below, and begins with the background 
to the complaint:
The relationship between Mrs P and JES began in October 2014, when it met with her 
for the purpose of reviewing her ISA, investment, pension and retirement income 
options. A financial planning report was produced in July 2015, which recorded that Mrs 
P was in her mid-sixties, had retired a few months previously and that she had a basic 
knowledge of investments. Her attitude to investment risk was described as 
medium/moderate.
The report described Mrs Ps financial objectives as being to generate tax efficient total net 
income of around £18,800 in 2015  her current income at that time was in the region of
£9,300, made up primarily of the state pension and an annuity. Mrs P had investments 
at that time in two SIPPs totalling around £155,000, and JES advised her to transfer 
some of those holdings into a JES advisory managed SIPP.
It recommended that she transfer the remainder into a JES drawdown SIPP, and these 
holdings also be managed through the same JES advisory managed service. Mrs Ps ISA 
holdings were also transferred into this service.
The total of all charges which would be levied on an overall SIPP fund value of £155,000 
was £2,861, which included anticipated dealing charges of between 1.25% and 2.15% of 
the value of each trade. The ISA would be subject to a flat fee.
According to a later report, an investment return of 10.61% pa would be required to draw the 
level of income Mrs P required without the erosion of capital, and it was noted that this was 
unlikely to be achievable.
Mrs P complained to JES on the above basis in 2019. JES didnt uphold her complaint, 
saying in summary that, under the advisory managed service, each investment decision 
h
been discussed and agreed with Mrs P before it was implemented. It said that there were
many market factors which had impacted on her fund performance, for which it 
couldnt reasonably be held accountable.
It also said that the level of income Mrs P had taken  ranging from 9% in 2016 to 
nearly 14% in 2019 - had also impacted on the value of her funds.
According to JES, Mrs P had indicated that she was happy with the fluctuations in value, 
and that she took a longer term view. It noted that the ISA in particular had been 
disproportionately affected by the flat fee arrangement, but that it would be contacting Mrs 
P in the near future about moving this to a percentage based fee.
JES did note that, although it expected its investment managers to monitor the ongoing 
costs for their clients due to dealing fees, it didnt seem that this had been the case for 
Mrs
P. It observed that, on the basis of a middle value of £158,500, total charges had 
been 6.8% for 2016, 6.1% for 2017 and 2.6% for 2018. As such, it said that it was 
prepared to refund a proportion of the charges applied to Mrs Ps accounts as a 
gesture of goodwill to bring the overall level of charges down to 2.5%, as it said Mrs P 
had suggested in her complaint. This would amount to a refund of £12,680.
However, Mrs P remained dissatisfied with the response and referred the matter to 
this service.
Our investigator considered the matter, and initially didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She said the following in summary:
She thought that Mrs P had been made aware of the types of charges applicable 
to her accounts and that these may vary over time.
Although she noted Mrs Ps dissatisfaction with her investments performance, 
and that the charges may have differed from other SIPPs and ISAs on the 
market, she said that each investment product was designed differently and had 
different charging structures.
Mrs P opted for the advisory managed service and had control over how JES 
managed her investments. But she didnt in any case think that JES had 
mismanaged Mrs Ps investments or that they had been inconsistent with her 
stated attitude to risk.
She also noted the proposed refund of some of the charges, and said that it was 
up to Mrs P as to whether she accepted this.
Mrs P disagreed, however, saying that she wasnt questioning whether JES charged her 
more than it said it would for certain transactions. Her concern lay with the regularity of the 
dealing transactions and she thought the reasoning behind them, of which shed seen no 
persuasive evidence, must surely be brought into question, given that on each occasion 
JES took a further charge.
She didnt consider that this was acting fairly or in her best interests, as required by the 
regulators high level principles, and that the transactions should instead have been kept to 
a minimum.
Mrs P also queried as to whether the service had been advisory or discretionary, as she 
felt there was a contradiction here. Furthermore, Mrs P was concerned that the amount of 
directly held shares wasnt aligned to her investment risk category, and would have been 
more suited to an individual with a higher risk tolerance.
Mrs P said the short term view of the investment transactions was at odds with her 
medium to long term objectives, and she urged the investigator to reconsider what had 
caused her such substantial losses in a period of sustained market growth.The investigator reconsidered her assessment and changed her view on the matter, 
saying that she didnt think the advice given to Mrs P in 2015 was suitable. She made the 
following points in support of this position:
She quoted from the regulators report in 2008 on pension switching, which 
provided examples of what it thought might constitute unsuitable advice in that 
regard:
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome 
involved assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for 
investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund 
performance, but there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; 
or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence that 
this option was needed).
The investigator considered whether the reasoning behind the switching of Mrs 
Ps investments was sound and whether the potential to be better off justified this, 
given the costs involved.
She noted that Mrs Ps investment knowledge had been described as basic, and 
that shed never been involved in investment selection. She therefore relied 
heavily upon the advisory nature of the service provided by JES, but just because 
she accepted the advice, this wouldnt have made it suitable.
Mrs P was 66 at the time of the initial advice, and although it would have been 
important to maximise income and growth, within her risk tolerance, the impact of 
the charges associated with the switching should have been given serious 
consideration.
The investigators view was that the rationale behind the switches didnt justify 
her incurring such significant costs  especially as Mrs P was retired and so had 
no means of adding to her pension provision or replacing losses. She didnt think 
that the necessary investment performance could be achieved which would 
balance out the effect of the additional costs incurred  and she thought the 
same principle applied to the ISA transfer.
By comparison with the higher level of costs with JES, the investigator noted that 
the costs with one of her previous SIPP providers had been 1.2% pa, and that she 
had 20 free fund switches per year.
The investigators view was that Mrs P was paying higher costs for the sake of 
the investment management, and overall improved levels of service, provided 
by JES. But she wasnt persuaded that Mrs P had needed this.
She said that Mrs P had expressed no dissatisfaction with her previous plans, nor 
did she have the necessary knowledge and experience to actively manage her 
investments. She received, and accepted, recommendations from JES. But she 
thought the charges associated with the ongoing service werent made clear  and 
even if they were, it wouldnt have rendered the advice suitable.
JES had conceded that when there had been periods of higher trading activity, 
there should have been a refund of charges, the investigator noted. This hadnt 
happened, but even if it had, she thought that the other associated costs meant 
the switches were unsuitable.
Due to the unrealistically high required growth rate to sustain the planned 
income withdrawal, the investigator thought that the majority of the income would 
simply be drawn from existing capital.
The investigator didnt consider that sufficient thought had been given to the 
available alternatives to switching. She noted that an annuity and drawdown with income guarantee had been discounted, but she didnt consider it was clear as to 
why. And given the range of funds, many of which would have been suited to her 
risk attitude, and free switching facility within the ceding schemes, she thought that 
Mrs Ps requirement could have been better met by remaining where she was.
Mrs P had initially said that she was a cautious investor, and JES had assured 
her that it would keep trading to a minimum. In the financial report, this risk 
rating was increased to medium/moderate so that individual stocks could be 
included in the portfolio  although the investigator accepted that this was a 
reasonable likely representation of Mrs Ps attitude to risk at the time.
The investigator recommended that JES compare the performance of Mrs Ps 
investments with that they would have achieved in a benchmark index designed to reflect 
a medium risk attitude  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
Additionally, she said that JES should pay Mrs P £300 for the trouble and upset caused 
by the unsuitable advice.
JES disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
It was disappointed with the investigators revised position and that she 
had considered matters beyond the original complaint.
It wished to address the ISA separately from the pension matters, as this was 
already in existence in 2015 and was being managed by one of its investment 
managers.
Mrs P had wanted JES to rearrange her existing pension plans to meet her 
short term need for funds whilst topping up her state pension income. This 
required investment flexibility and the requirement to draw down cash 
immediately.
Irrespective of whether Mrs P was happy with her existing plans, she couldnt do 
what she required within her existing arrangement with one of the SIPPs. Mrs P 
had also already taken the maximum allowed under the other SIPP she held, and 
the provider didnt allow her to capitalise on the recently implemented pension 
freedoms with that plan.
To allow Mrs P the required flexibility, it was thought appropriate to consolidate 
both plans into one. Mrs P also wanted the option of investing directly in equities, 
and this was needed to achieve the growth required to sustain the proposed level 
of income.
Mrs Ps knowledge and experience was taken into account, and JES therefore 
thought the discretionary management basis would be appropriate, but Mrs P 
insisted that it be set up on an advisory managed basis. The recommendations 
were tailored to Mrs Ps attitude to risk and she had the benefit of an adviser to 
discuss anything which she didnt understand. Advice was given based on Mrs Ps 
objectives, which were discussed and reconfirmed annually to ensure that they 
remained relevant and correct.
Mrs P had specifically requested access to direct equity investment and it was 
clear that she had a medium/moderate risk attitude. Her lack of knowledge and 
experience also demonstrated why she was suited to the advisory managed 
arrangement.
JES also queried the comment on the comparison of charges, saying that in the 
previous assessment the conclusion was that there had been no issue with the 
charges levied, and that Mrs P had agreed to these at the outset. It also queried reference in the investigators new assessment to significant charges beyond 
those for dealing, and it enquired as to what was being referenced  here.
Ongoing dealing costs couldnt have been factored into the comparison of charges 
as these transactions were based on the state of financial markets at any given 
time, and so couldnt be predicted.
The critical yield of 10.61% mentioned by the investigator originated from the 
review carried out in 2016, rather than in the original advice in 2015. But this did in 
any case serve to illustrate the growth required to prevent capital erosion of the 
basis of the required income.
JES agreed that there were no guarantees that Mrs Ps plans would achieve 
everything that she wished  and this was true of all investments. But Mrs P 
was aware of this.
The investigator noted JES response, and requested further clarity on the issue of the 
ISA. She also said that, whilst the July 2015 financial report recorded Mrs Ps income 
requirement as being around £10,000, there was no reason given as to why she needed 
this amount.
She also said there was no evidence that alternative means of generating this had 
been explored  for example, she noted that Mrs P had been recorded as having 
£25,000 in savings.
The investigator also sought further clarity on why one of Mrs Ps SIPPs wouldnt 
have allowed her to capitalise on pension freedoms.
Having also had the opportunity to talk to Mrs P, the investigator also expressed doubt 
that Mrs P had herself expressed the desire to invest directly in equities, or that she 
wanted to be in an advisory managed arrangement. Rather, Mrs P had said that she 
simply agreed to what was being recommended.
The investigator clarified what shed meant by charges over and above the dealing costs 
 these being the annual management charge and the quarterly administration charge, 
amongst others.
The business responded, saying that there wasnt the same type of suitability letter for 
the ISA as for the SIPPs, as that part of the business operated on a different model. It 
did, however, submit the system notes and the investment proposal which was sent to 
Mrs P for approval.
It also said that extracts from the financial planning analysis supported the position that 
Mrs Ps income was insufficient for her needs. They also demonstrated that a discussion 
was held as to the alternative of annuity purchase, but this was discounted on the basis 
of the amount which would be available from an annuity at the current rates being too 
little.
Ive set these extracts out below, largely verbatim, for reference:
2015 Financial Planning Analysis (FPA) Pg. 5
[Mrs Ps] current income is insufficient to meet her needs and as such she is looking to 
draw on her personal pensions in the most tax efficient way where possible whilst also 
giving consideration to preserving as much tax free lump sum as possible for withdrawal 
in future years.
2015 Report Pg. 4You expect your fixed personal outgoings for the next year to equate to £14,076 but 
also wish to ensure that you have sufficient disposable income.
In view of your projected deficit you are looking to supplement your state pension 
income with an additional £10,000 this year. You would like to draw this from your 
pension, investments & savings in a tax efficient manner whilst also maintaining a 
sufficient emergency fund and ISA balance.
2015 Report Pg.8
From our discussions you confirmed that you are happy to draw some funds from 
your savings account in order to maintain your position as a non-tax payer and as 
such I am recommending that you draw £100 per month (£1,200 per year) from the 
pension in the first year.
We have examined this in detail and it is likely that your income from all other sources 
will be in the region of £9,387.37 net, whilst your expected expenditure will be closer to
£14,076 plus additional costs for entertainment and pleasure.
It is anticipated that this level of income will be required for the next 12 months. At the 
end of this period, or indeed any time prior, we can review your ongoing needs.
When the £1,200 is added to the £9,387.37 your total income for the year will equate to
£10,587.37, £10,544.92 of which will be taxable. This leaves you with a remaining 
personal income tax allowance of £55.08 for the 2015/2016 tax year.
In view of the above your income shortfall will be £8,212.63 which can be made up by 
releasing 25% of your AEGON Pension as a tax free lump sum once the transfer to AJ 
Bell has completed and by drawing the shortfall balance from your cash savings. Based 
on the current value of your AEGON Pension (£30,436.80), the available tax free lump 
sum is
£7609.20, therefore to make up the shortfall you will need to draw approximately 
£603.43 from your savings.
And then JES quoted the following excerpts from the 2016 annual review:
Report 2016 Pg. 3
We did discuss immediate annuity purchase but given the current rates of income 
available from annuities you stated that the income available was insufficient to meet 
your needs and that you accept; and understand the risks involved with your chosen 
income strategy.
Report 2016 Pg. 6
Income Requirements
You confirmed that your existing income withdrawals are capped and do not reflect 
your current and future income requirements. You therefore wish to remove any 
limits that prevent you from taking income from your fund.You would like to generate a total income of £20,000 net per annum for the next 
year and wish to avoid committing to an irreversible lifetime income which 
currently offers an insufficient rate of income.
Report 2016 Pg. 7
We discussed in some detail the sustainability of the required level of income and agreed 
that this would need to be kept under close review as based on your attitude to risk and 
investment objectives it is unlikely that the required return will be achieved on a regular 
basis.
You confirmed that you understood this but you are unwilling to reduce your income 
requirements and standard of living and as such, annuity purchase has been excluded at 
this time.
In response to the investigators query about one of the SIPPs and the inability of Mrs P 
to capitalise on the pension freedoms, JES confirmed that that this was the case.
JES also reconfirmed that it was Mrs P who wished to invest in direct equities, 
and it considered this was borne out by extracts from the 2015 financial report, as 
follows:
2015 Financial Planning Analysis (FPA) Pg. 11
Interested in holding individual stocks
Outlined Personal Pensions against Self Invested Personal Pensions and ability 
to hold individual stocks, liked the idea of individual stocks and the features they 
provide i.e. direct dividend streams with potential for growth
2015 Financial Planning Analysis (FPA) Pg. 5
For Pension Mrs P indicated that she has a moderate to medium attitude to risk, she 
initially indicated a 10% tolerance and capacity for loss. As such I suggested that her 
attitude to risk is probably more cautious than moderate to medium and that maybe 
individual stocks should not be included. I reminded Mrs P of the benefits and risks 
applicable to individual stocks and asked her for confirmation of appetite for risk and 
tolerances for loss, she confirmed that 20% was her maximum tolerance/capacity, 
therefore agreed that a moderate profile was best suited.
2015 Report Pg. 7
Fund Choices  Your existing plans do offer access to a number of funds that may be 
considered suitable to your objectives, however neither provider is able to facilitate 
the purchase of direct shareholdings which we agreed is an important part of any 
income/growth generating strategy. Additionally, your AEGON contract does not 
provide access to an income drawdown arrangement.
JES also quoted from the report to support its position that Mrs P wished to have 
control over her investments and a hand in the decision making process.2015 Financial Planning Analysis (FPA) Pg. 11
Would like some involvement with investment decisions at least in the initial 
years, therefore would like advisory service initially, may consider discretionary 
managed service as knowledge increases and confidence grows.

Report 2015 Pg. 13
Advisory Investment Management
We discussed the various ways you could achieve your present objectives. As 
discussed during our meeting, I would normally recommend that any pension 
investments are made through our Discretionary Managed Service, however you 
indicated that at least to begin with you wish to be more involved in the investment 
decisions and as such I recommend that following the transfer of your pension, the 
investments be managed through the J Edward Sellars Advisory Managed service.
JES reiterated its position that all charges were discussed with Mrs P, and that she had 
full knowledge of the ongoing administration charges of both the SIPP provider and JES 
as the investment manager.
It also said that the critical yield illustrated that Mrs P had been warned of the risks of 
taking such a high level of income.
JES concluded by saying that, in view of Mrs Ps circumstances, objectives and attitude to 
risk, it felt that it had provided her with all of the information required for her to be able to 
make an informed decision  and the advice was suitable, both given what was known at 
the time and in subsequent annual reviews.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the matters been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several aspects to this complaint, which Ill address in turn.
The charging structure of the new plans
I dont think there is significant disagreement on this issue of whether Mrs P was aware, 
or ought to have been aware, of the proposed charging structure of her new plans. As set 
out by the investigator in her first assessment, JES had been transparent about the 
charges which would be levied on Mrs Ps investments, and from what Ive seen, Id 
agree that there appears to have been no misrepresentation in terms of the charges 
which would apply.
However, whilst its fair to say that Mrs P would have been aware of charges such as 
those for dealing, Mrs P was informed that this would be kept to a minimum. But from what 
I can see from the transaction statement for 2018/19, for example, there appears to have 
been in the region of 25 dealing transaction charges, in addition to a fixed percentage fee of 1.1% of the portfolio value. And similar numbers of dealing transaction charges seem to 
have applied in other years as well, even in the first year when it might be expected that 
there might be fewer due to a bedding in period of initial investments.
Ive therefore given careful thought to the size of Mrs Ps portfolio  in the region of 
£155,000
- and whether this is a proportionate number of dealings between individual directly held 
shares for this size of pension pot and to achieve Mrs Ps objectives. But whilst this could 
certainly be described as active management, I cannot see how this number of 
transactions, with the associated cost and cumulative impact on Mrs Ps portfolio, can 
possibly have been justified in such a short space of time on a fund of this size.
I can see that, in hindsight, JES has said that where such high frequency trading (in 
the literal, rather than computerised sense) exists, a refund of the fees charged would 
have been appropriate. But this was in response to the complaint made by Mrs P  
and I have concerns about whether this would have happened, had she not 
complained about it.
Was this the right type of investment structure for Mrs P?
Ive mentioned above the size of Mrs Ps portfolio, and my conclusion as set out above, 
is that the type of active management applied to it was disproportionate.
Mrs P nevertheless had quite specific requirements, and I think its unlikely that the 
required level of income originated from anywhere other than Mrs P. But the minimum 
income requirement was in the region of £14,000 to maintain her lifestyle. And given the 
size of Mrs Ps pension pot, I think her income expectations should have been better 
managed.
If such expectations arent managed appropriately, an individual can find themselves in 
the position of effectively having run out of money quite early on in retirement. And in the 
absence of the required returns, if Mrs P continued to eat into capital, this is a situation 
she could have faced in a relatively short period of time.
This of course would have fed into the rationale behind the active management aspect of 
the portfolio. I agree with JES that the most likely way of achieving those returns would 
have been by active management. But my view is that active management would have 
been better applied, at the outset, to Mrs Ps expectations. And I think Mrs Ps is right 
when she says the level of direct shareholding and dealing of these wasnt consistent with 
her tolerance, or capacity, for investment risk.
And thinking about her overall portfolio in more detail, the proposal was that 80% of her 
portfolio would be invested in equities, spread between a significant amount of directly 
held shares and equity funds. A further 10% would be held in private equity, meaning that 
she held 90% overall in a higher risk environment. The remaining 10% was split evenly 
between commercial property and cash.
This level of exposure to risk was too high for Mrs P. She wasnt in a position where 
losses could be recouped. She had retired and so was reliant on the income produced 
by her pension, annuity and remaining investments. JES should, in my view, have set 
this out in very clear terms, and informed Mrs P of the very likely impossibility that her 
income needs could be met, given her pension pot, capacity for loss and attitude to 
investment risk.Directly held shares
Notwithstanding my comments above on the unnecessary amount of trading of Mrs Ps 
investments, Ive then thought further about the background here. It has been JES 
position that it was Mrs P who was keen to invest in directly held shares. So Ive 
considered just how likely, on balance, it is that the origin of this proposal lay with Mrs P.
There are two extracts from the suitability report which were quoted by the investigator, 
and warrant repetition here:
For Pension [Mrs P] indicated that she has a moderate to medium attitude to risk, she 
initially indicated a 10% tolerance and capacity for loss. As such I suggested that her 
attitude to risk Is probably more cautious than moderate to medium and that maybe 
individual stocks should not be included. I reminded [Mrs P] of the benefits and risks 
applicable to individual stocks and asked her for confirmation of her risk appetite for risk 
and
tolerances for loss, she confirmed that 20% was her maximum tolerance/capacity, 
therefore agreed that a moderate profile was best suited.
And in Mrs Ps agreement to proceed with the proposals, she said:
I trust your judgement and expertise and would like to go ahead with your 
recommendations and thank you for your cautiousness with the markets being 
volatile.
Mrs P had little investment experience (her knowledge was described as basic), had a 
modest sized pensions and savings pot, and was initially categorised as a cautious 
investor on the basis of her tolerance for capital loss.
It seems highly unlikely to me, therefore, that she herself proposed the notion of directly 
held shares in her portfolio. As strongly suggested by the first extract, I think it more likely 
than not that this was presented to her as a way of achieving her income objective, with 
which she then agreed, and on the basis that a cautious attitude to risk would be 
incompatible with such a proposal, with the elevated possibility of capital loss, she then 
agreed to the higher medium/moderate risk categorisation.
The second extract is highly indicative of Mrs Ps reliance on JES for guidance in 
investing, and that she appreciated the level of caution which JES was proposing. 
Although this seems to me to be distinctly at odds with the actual type of investments 
chosen.
But again, given that it should have been clear that the kind of active management to 
which these shareholdings were then subjected would have a significant impact on the 
value of her portfolio, given the costs involved, my view is that she should have been 
steered in a different direction.
What should JES have done?
As Ive acknowledged above, Mrs P sought a level of income which was, to all intents and 
purposes, virtually impossible to achieve without taking the kind of investment risks to 
which she was ill suited. And this should have been made very clear to her from the 
outset.I take on board JES comments about the alternatives open to Mrs P, especially in terms 
of the lack of drawdown option with one of the existing SIPP arrangements. I also accept 
that Mrs P might in any case have deemed the guaranteed income offered by annuities to 
be too low. And that she was prepared to take some investment risk for the prospect of 
greater returns.
But with a better managed expectation of feasible income, I think there was a rather more 
obvious route here, which would have simply involved Mrs P transferring the funds held 
with the provider which didnt offer drawdown (AEGON) to that (Zurich and Capita) which 
did, and with which Mrs P was already in capped drawdown.
Her pension pot was spread over four different funds, all of which would have been 
subject to active management to ensure that the objectives were consistently met, but 
with the costs of fund management spread among all investors, rather than individual 
dealing costs borne by Mrs P as was the case here.
I note that JES suggested in the financial report that Mrs P had maximised her income 
level in that SIPP, but according to the 2015 statement, Mrs P had only taken £7,000 from 
the plan and was able to take a maximum of £10,703. This is broadly the amount by 
which Mrs P was seeking to enhance her existing state pension and annuity income 
amount of £9,300, although the amount she needed was in fact lower at around £14,000. 
Its also interesting to
note that, through the funds in which she was then invested  four funds which would 
reasonably constitute a medium risk, balanced portfolio  her portfolio value had 
increased by just under £7,000 over the preceding year, despite the £7,000 income 
withdrawal.
Mrs Ps existing portfolio wasnt just maintaining capital, therefore  it was increasing 
in value.
The ISA
As far as I can tell, Mrs P transferred £50,000 from cash into a stocks and shares ISA, 
and she retained £26,000 in readily accessible savings. It was proposed that the ISA 
funds be invested into eight equity funds, but it seems that they were then subject to a 
similar level of trading frequency as the pension funds.
JES has also said, albeit in response to the complaint, that it would have been better for 
Mrs P to move from a flat fee to a percentage based charge for the ISA, but given my 
views on the need, or rather otherwise, for the level of active management which was 
applied here, there were low cost ISAs with suitable fund choices (again, balanced 
managed for example) for Mrs P which would have served her purposes just as well, and 
in all likelihood better.
Advice fee
Mrs P was charged an advice fee of 1.85% to meet the cost of the recommendation. This 
seems to have been contingent on the advice proposal being accepted and implemented, 
as JES said that £2,861 would be deducted before the transfer into the new SIPP.
Nevertheless, I think, even with suitable advice which involved just one transfer, JES 
would have incurred some expense in evaluating Mrs Ps situation and recommending 
that she transfer her AEGON SIPP into that held with Zurich and Capita. As such, I think 
it would reasonably have deducted the same 1.85% fee from the funds it transferred from 
AEGON.
SummaryFor the reasons given, Im not currently of the view that Mrs P, or her investments, were 
suited to the type of active management or level of risk into which they were transferred. 
Had Mrs Ps income expectations been better managed, I think she would have accepted 
the reality of a lower income for the sake of greater capital preservation, and ultimately a 
longer prospective period of receiving that income.
I consider it possible that Mrs P would still have opted for some kind of drawdown, given 
the likely amount which would have been provided by an annuity. But this could have 
been achieved much more simply and at a lower overall cost.
Putting things right
The SIPPs
Mrs P had two SIPPs, one of which  with Zurich and Capita - did provide a drawdown 
facility (she was already in capped drawdown), but didnt provide access to directly held 
shares. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think this was either necessary or suitable 
for Mrs P.
JES said that it wasnt possible to enter into drawdown with the other SIPP held with 
AEGON, but as Mrs P seems to have had no particular issue with Zurich and Capita, it 
doesnt seem unreasonable that she could have simply consolidated both plans by 
transferring the AEGON funds into drawdown with Zurich and Capita. Her maximum 
annual
income would have been enhanced by the transfer, but I cant see that Mrs P in any 
case needed more than was available from the value of the SIPP as it was.
So JES should compare the actual value, as at the date of any future decision, of her 
current SIPPs with the notional value of her Zurich and Capita SIPP had it remained in 
place, and in the same funds, and received the transfer from AEGON.
Both the actual and notional values used in the comparison should reflect any payments 
or withdrawals made since.
If the notional value of the Zurich and Capita SIPP is higher, then Mrs P will have suffered 
a loss. In that situation, JES should make a payment to one of Mrs Ps current SIPPs 
(Mrs P may state a preference) so that the overall actual value of her SIPPs is equivalent 
to that notional value. This should take account of any charges and available tax relief, 
and shouldnt be made to the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If it does, or a payment to the SIPP is for any other reason not possible, the payment 
should be made directly to Mrs P, with a notional deduction for the rate of tax which Mrs P 
is paying in retirement  assumed to be basic rate. I have assumed that Mrs P has 
already taken her maximum tax free cash from her plans.
ISA
Had Mrs P been advised to place her funds into a stakeholder stocks and shares ISA, she 
would have been paying a maximum yearly charge of 1.5%. As Mrs P was familiar with 
Zurich, and it offers what I understand to be a stakeholder-compliant stocks and shares 
ISA, I think its reasonable to assume that, suitably advised, she would have invested in 
that type of product, within a balanced managed fund. I note that Zurich has, since 2009, 
had a fund called the Omnis Managed Balanced Fund.
So JES should compare the current value of Mrs Ps ISA with the notional value of a 
Zurich ISA, had her funds been invested in the Omnis Managed Balanced Fund (or equivalent) from the same date up to the date of any final decision. Both the actual and 
notional values used in the comparison should reflect any payments or withdrawals 
made since.
If the notional value is higher, Mrs P will have suffered a loss. In that situation, JES 
should make a payment equivalent to that loss, on Mrs Ps behalf, into her existing ISA. I 
have assumed that Mrs P still has, or will have, beyond 6 April 2021, enough annual 
allowance to accommodate any redress payment, but she should let me know if this is 
not, or wont be, the case.
Advice fee
For the reasons given above, my current view is that JES should refund to Mrs Ps SIPP 
the difference between the fee it took and that which it would have taken on the same 
percentage basis on a transfer of just the AEGON funds. A payment should be made to 
Mrs Ps SIPP (of her choosing) to reflect the value of the difference, as at any future 
decision date, had that additional amount remained in the SIPP (and so reacted to market 
movements). As above, this should take into account the effect of charges and available 
tax relief.
The payment shouldnt be made to the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. If it does, or its otherwise not possible to pay into the SIPP, the payment 
should be made directly to Mrs P, with a notional deduction for the rate of tax which Mrs P 
is paying
in retirement  assumed to be basic rate. I have assumed that Mrs P has already taken her
maximum tax free cash from her plans.
Distress and inconvenience
The investigator recommended that JES pay Mrs P an additional amount of £300 in 
respect of this. Having considered the impact that the advice from JES, and its effect on 
her retirement provision, will have reasonably had on Mrs P, I think this is additional 
payment is warranted, and appropriate in value.
Mrs P responded to say that she accepted the provisional decision and had no further 
comments to add.
JES wished to make some further observations, however, as follows:
It said that Mrs P had, from the outset, wanted the potential for higher returns than 
were offered by her existing investments, especially since she had received cash 
from a house sale
Mrs Ps attitude to risk, as determined by the know your customer document, was 
determined as being moderate, and the definition of this was read to her to 
ensure that she understood it and had the opportunity to ask questions.
Mrs P selected this risk profile as she wanted exposure to equity markets and this 
would produce the growth and income required. This was equally true of both the 
pension and the ISA funds, albeit discussions determined that there would be a 
lower risk exposure for the former. There were full discussions around this.
Mrs Ps existing plans didnt offer access to such investments, nor did they offer 
the widest possible range of funds. Transferring meant that Mrs P could access 
and control her accounts.Mrs P was very clear that she wouldnt accept a lower amount of income, although 
the risk of capital erosion was fully discussed and noted in every review. This was 
demonstrated by the comment in the 2016 review letter as follows:
We discussed in some detail the sustainability of the required level of income and 
agreed that this would need to be kept under close review as based on your attitude 
to risk and investment objectives it is unlikely that the required return will be achieved 
on a regular basis.
You confirmed that you understood this but you are unwilling to reduce your income 
requirements and standard of living and as such, annuity purchase has been 
excluded at this time.
The business agreed that Mrs Ps stated expenditure may have been achievable 
within her existing arrangements, but she had been insistent that she needed extra 
income to meet her lifestyle expenditure. This couldnt have been achieved from her 
existing arrangements. But Mrs P fully understood the risks and implications of the 
proposals.
It said that a more comprehensive version of the email conversation from July 2015 
demonstrated that the changes which had been made to her proposed portfolio 
makeup had been discussed. This had changed in the time that Mrs P had taken to 
consider the advice, and the caution shed expressed related to a reluctance to rush 
into a certain area of the market at that time  rather than her own investment 
cautiousness. 
An interpretation that Mrs P was categorised as cautious based on her capacity for 
loss was to take the extract from the 2015 financial report out of context, JES said. 
Mrs P had already indicated that she had a moderate to medium risk attitude, but 
when asked about her capacity for loss, her answer was incompatible with that risk 
rating. The adviser had a conversation about this with Mrs P, and following this she 
was happy to accept the relevant capacity for loss for her chosen risk profile. And this 
was led by Mrs P.
The business submitted a recording of a telephone call for the purpose of the know 
your client exercise which took place in July 2017. In this, Mrs P was clearly happy 
and conversant with her investments and referred to the ISA at one point as 
something we can play more with.
The business considered that this call demonstrated Mrs Ps full understanding of her 
investments, the risks undertaken and that she was happy with them. Some of her 
answers relating to her attitude to risk were questioned by the adviser, but they 
eventually reached agreement on that issue.
A further record made of a meeting with a new adviser in September 2018 also 
indicated that Mrs P had noticed her investment values had fallen slightly, but 
understood the nature of the market and why various issues prevailing at that time 
were having an effect on this.
The business summarised by saying that Mrs P had wanted to increase the potential returns 
on her investments and was made fully aware of the risks at every point. She was also made 
aware of the charges at the outset, and although the objective was to keep changes to a 
minimum, circumstances in financial markets necessitated more of these than had been 
envisaged. It was, however, disappointed that Mrs P hadnt been offered a reduction in the 
dealing fee and its offer of a refund of some of these had been made as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mrs P was aware that the level of income she was taking was unlikely to be sustainable, but 
she accepted this and didnt want to compromise on this, JES said. It further contended that Mrs P was happy with the arrangements put in place and fully understood them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps level of understanding and involvement in the investment strategy
As I said in the provisional decision, Im confident that the business was led by Mrs Ps 
specific objectives in terms of the income she sought. But I think that was the extent of any 
direction which Mrs P might have given in terms of arranging the investments. Mrs P was 
reliant upon the business to make recommendations, and other than requiring a particular 
level of income, I simply dont think the evidence supports the position that she was the 
driver behind any aspect of the investment strategy.
For example, whilst in the call recording re-submitted by JES, to which Ive listened carefully, 
when asked about her level of experience with investments, Mrs P said that she agreed that 
she had some, but only in the sense that she understood what had been conveyed to her by 
JES. This gives me little sense that Mrs P had, prior to JES involvement, been keen on 
investing in any particular asset class. She was, in essence, guided by JES. 
Throughout the same call, Mrs P (and the adviser) referred to herself as Mrs Cautious. She 
was also hesitant and uncertain on several of the questions asked of her in relation to her 
attitude to risk. She began by saying that she understood the pension funds would be 
exposed to less risk than the ISA, and when she asked whether drawdown would still be 
possible if the value of her pension funds decreased, I think this was an appropriate 
opportunity for JES to point out that maintaining her desired (rather than required) income 
level under such circumstances would have the likely effect of eliminating her pension funds 
much sooner than she may have envisaged. And her income expectations could at that point 
have been better managed.
JES has said that the possibility of capital erosion was discussed at every review. And if 
there was a clear indication that the business had told her that her desired income levels 
couldnt be achieved given her actual risk attitude (cautious) and capacity for loss (see 
below), and that to try to obtain this shed be exposed to levels of risk comfortably beyond 
those to which she was suited  but Mrs P had nevertheless decided to proceed  Id have 
more sympathy with the business position. 
But this didnt happen. Notwithstanding caveats relating to the sustainability of required 
returns, the business nevertheless conveyed the notion that her objectives were possible, 
and this was enough for Mrs P to accept the recommendations. 
Mrs Ps attitude to risk and capacity for loss
I also have concerns about whats been said about Mrs Ps capacity for loss, and that she 
changed this when she was told that her initial level of caution was incompatible with a 
moderate to medium risk rating. The business has said that Mrs P was, after discussion on 
this, happy to accept the relevant capacity for loss for her chosen risk profile. 
But this is the wrong way around. Id firstly suggest that capacity for loss is less of a 
subjective matter than, say, psychological tolerance for risk/reward and associated potential 
loss. The former is predominantly determined by the level of other assets held, through 
which the investor is able to withstand any losses. Its not a matter of stated preference, but 
more of an objective reality. So Mrs P either had capacity for any medium to long term loss, which would be difficult to recoup in a period of retirement, or she didnt. Given the paucity of 
other assets held and her income requirements, I dont think that it could be reasonably 
concluded that Mrs P did in fact have capacity for loss. 
And in terms of her attitude to risk, she may have been prepared to see some minor short 
term fluctuations, although in the telephone call submitted by the business, she in any case 
demonstrates a fair amount of hesitancy and uncertainty around this subject, but I dont think 
it can be said that Mrs P was unequivocally accepting of the type of significant losses in the 
medium to long term which may have been produced by the proposed levels of equity 
investment for her pension funds. And this was what was reflected in her own levels of 
caution when it came to risk/reward.
And so this should have driven the categorisation of her risk attitude. It was inappropriate for 
a risk categorisation to be chosen so that investment in certain higher risk assets could be 
facilitated, and then for her innate levels of caution to be modified to achieve this. And I dont 
see how this process could reasonably be said to have been led by Mrs P. Even if she was 
prepared to change her risk rating for the sake of investing more heavily in higher risk 
assets, this wasnt a strategy which she herself devised. She was offered a potential route of 
achieving her objectives, which she nevertheless would have justifiably believed the 
business considered was suitable for her  it having undertaken the know your client 
exercise -  and she understandably took it.
Had it instead been pointed out that it was highly unlikely for her desired income levels to be 
met without taking unsuitable levels of risk, or establishing an investment strategy which 
would have the marked effect of reducing her funds, even if not through market reductions, 
then through the charges and dealing fees levied, I think Mrs P may well have altered her 
expectations accordingly. She simply wasnt in a position, either subjectively in terms of her 
attitude to risk/reward or objectively in terms of a capacity to absorb losses, to enter into the 
recommended investment strategy.
And I dont think the meeting note from 2018 undermines this conclusion. The adviser ran 
through the fund values and Mrs P noted that they had fallen slightly. I think its only when 
she later appreciated the extent of her potential financial losses due to a number of factors 
that she expressed her concerns.
What should JES have advised  and would it have made a difference to the outcome?
I do appreciate, and am confident, that JES tried to do the right thing here. I dont think this 
advice was borne of any lack of care and attention to Mrs P and her objectives, or that it 
didnt try to help Mrs P achieve her goals. But I think it may have been guilty of an overly 
optimistic assessment of what was in fact achievable here, and the reality, rather than that 
optimism, should have been conveyed to Mrs P in stark, candid terms at the outset.
There are certainly instances of JES telling Mrs P that the returns needed to produce the 
income were unlikely to be achieved on a regular basis, but had this been followed by a 
clear statement that she may run of money in the near future, I think it would have had a 
greater impact.
As it was, JES tried to achieve Mrs Ps objectives through a strategy which was 
inappropriate for her, both in terms of her actual attitude to investment risk and the size of 
her pension pot. And the very process of putting an alternate, (very) actively managed 
strategy in place would have suggested to Mrs P that her goals were potentially realisable.
Had the starting point been a very clear explanation as to why the desired level of income 
was very unlikely to be achieved on any sustainable basis with the size of her pension pot and (unmodified) cautious attitude to risk, and that the only possible way of trying to achieve 
this was through an essentially unsuitable course of action, I think Mrs P would have 
reconsidered her options. And had she insisted on proceeding, against the better advice of 
JES, she could have been categorised accordingly.
The business has also said that Mrs Ps existing investments couldnt satisfy her objectives  
but as Ive said above, those objectives were unlikely to be met in any format which was 
suitable for Mrs P. With a pension pot of her size, and lack of exposure to anything beyond 
mainstream investments, she simply didnt need a wide array of potential investments or 
investment funds. Those which were already available to her in her existing SIPP (at least 
that with Zurich and Capita), were likely to be adequate for her needs  and as I said in the 
provisional decision, would have reduced the level of fees applied to her pension funds.
So for the reasons given above, my conclusions remain the same as those set out in the 
provisional decision. My view is that Mrs P would have been better advised to remain in one 
of her SIPPs, and to transfer the value of the other into that one for the purposes of drawing 
down income from it.
The ISA
JES hasnt said very much about the ISA specifically in its response to the provisional 
decision, but my assumption is that it remains of the view that the same principle of active 
management in predominantly equity funds was also suitable for this product.
Ive noted with interest the comment in the telephone call about there being a little more 
investment latitude for the ISA, as compared to the pension (which does in any case 
reinforce my view that Mrs P had a naturally more cautious stance with regard to her 
pension funds), but I think this could have been adequately addressed through the cross 
subsidised dealing and management costs of a more mainstream balanced managed fund, 
as suggested in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
And so it follows that my conclusions on this issue remain the same as those set out in the 
provisional decision.
Mrs P had two SIPPs, one of which  with Zurich and Capita - did provide a drawdown 
facility (she was already in capped drawdown), but didnt provide access to directly held 
shares. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think this was either necessary or suitable 
for Mrs P.
JES said that it wasnt possible to enter into drawdown with the other SIPP held with 
AEGON, but as Mrs P seems to have had no particular issue with Zurich and Capita, it 
doesnt seem unreasonable that she could have simply consolidated both plans by
transferring the AEGON funds into drawdown with Zurich and Capita. Her maximum annual
income would have been enhanced by the transfer, but I cant see that Mrs P in any 
case needed more than was available from the value of the SIPP as it was.
So JES should compare the actual value, as at the date of this decision, of her current 
SIPPs with the notional value of her Zurich and Capita SIPP had it remained in place, and 
in the same funds, and received the transfer from AEGON.
Both the actual and notional values used in the comparison should reflect any payments 
or withdrawals made since.If the notional value of the Zurich and Capita SIPP is higher, then Mrs P will have suffered 
a loss. In that situation, JES should make a payment to one of Mrs Ps current SIPPs (Mrs 
P may state a preference to JES directly) so that the overall actual value of her SIPPs is 
equivalent to that notional value. This should take account of any charges and available 
tax relief, and shouldnt be made to the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If it does, or a payment to the SIPP is for any other reason not possible, the payment 
should be made directly to Mrs P, with a notional deduction for the rate of tax which Mrs P 
is paying in retirement  assumed to be basic rate. I have assumed that Mrs P has already 
taken her maximum tax free cash from her plans.
ISA
Had Mrs P been advised to place her funds into a stakeholder stocks and shares ISA, she 
would have been paying a maximum yearly charge of 1.5%. As Mrs P was familiar with 
Zurich, and it offers what I understand to be a stakeholder-compliant stocks and shares 
ISA, I think its reasonable to assume that, suitably advised, she would have invested in 
that type of product, within a balanced managed fund. I note that Zurich has, since 2009, 
had a fund called the Omnis Managed Balanced Fund.
So JES should compare the current value of Mrs Ps ISA with the notional value of a 
Zurich ISA, had her funds been invested in the Omnis Managed Balanced Fund (or 
equivalent if insufficient fund information for the relevant period is available) from the 
same investment date up to the date of this decision. Both the actual and notional values 
used in the comparison should reflect any payments or withdrawals made since.
If the notional value is higher, Mrs P will have suffered a loss. In that situation, JES should 
make a payment equivalent to that loss, on Mrs Ps behalf, into her existing ISA. I 
assumed in the provisional decision that Mrs P still has, or will have, beyond 6 April 2021, 
enough annual allowance to accommodate any redress payment, and she hasnt told me 
that this wont be the case.
Advice fee
For the reasons given in the provisional decision, my view is that JES should refund to Mrs 
Ps SIPP the difference between the fee it took and that which it would have taken on the 
same percentage basis on a transfer of just the AEGON funds. A payment should be made 
to Mrs Ps SIPP (of her choosing  she should notify JES of her preference) to reflect the 
value of the difference, as at the date of this decision, had that additional amount remained 
in the SIPP (and so reacted to market movements). As above, this should take into 
account the effect of charges and available tax relief.
The payment shouldnt be made to the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. If it does, or its otherwise not possible to pay into the SIPP, the payment 
should be made directly to Mrs P, with a notional deduction for the rate of tax which Mrs P 
is paying in retirement  assumed to be basic rate. As I said in the provisional decision, I 
have assumed that Mrs P has already taken her maximum tax free cash from her plans.
Distress and inconvenience
As I noted in the provisional decision, the investigator had recommended that JES pay Mrs 
P an additional amount of £300 in respect of this. And having considered the impact that 
the advice from JES, and its effect on her retirement provision, will have reasonably had on Mrs P, I thought that this is additional payment was warranted, and appropriate in 
value. I remain of the same view.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct J. Edward Sellars & Partners Limited to 
calculate any loss and make payment as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman