DRN-4051057
The complaint
Mr P says he was given incorrect information by TSB Bank plc about its exchange rate.
What happened
Mr P says he was sent 61,000 Euros to his TSB account. He says TSB told him the 
exchange rate would be the Bank of England rate on the day. But he says he received about 
£1,500 less than he ought to have as TSB used its own exchange rate. Mr P would like TSB 
to repay the difference and says it confirmed the exchange rate information in an online 
conversation.
TSB says it uses its own internal exchange rate and says it makes that information clear in 
the account terms and conditions. It says it has no record of an online conversation
Mr P brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it and thought TSB had 
acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr P didnt accept that view and pointed out he had provided a copy of the online 
conversation.
The investigator re-considered his view and came to the eventual conclusion that TSB 
should pay £75 for the misleading information.
TSB says it will pay that compensation but says the information Mr P has provided about 
other providers exchange rates is misleading.
Mr P maintains that TSB should pay further compensation for what took place and says he 
could have used other providers to carry out the exchange.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I thought it was impossible to be sure what the exact exchange rate Mr P could have 
received if a different provider had been used and what if any additional costs would have 
been applied. But my provisional view was that the recommended compensation didnt fairly 
reflect what took place here and the inconvenience Mr P was caused.
I didnt think there was any dispute that Mr Ps account terms and conditions made clear that 
TSB will use its own internal exchange rate on the day of a currency exchange. I also 
thought that is standard practice and that its impossible to say what those rates would be 
until the transfer was made.  So, I thought Mr P ought to have either been aware of TSBs 
policy on exchange rates or checked the account terms and conditions.
I looked carefully at the online conversation between Mr P and TSB. I didnt think it clear why 
TSB disputed that conversation took place or couldnt find a copy of it initially. I could see 
that TSB correctly told Mr P that it couldnt provide an estimate of the currency exchange 
due to the fact such exchange rates are constantly changing. But I didnt think TSB then 
gave clear information to Mr P and ought to have told him it used its own exchange rate 
calculated at the time of the transaction.
I accepted the conversation was misleading and thought it likely that TSB meant it bases its 
standard exchange rate on the Bank of England rate. I also accepted that Mr P concluded 
that TSB would use the Bank of England rate which in reality no business would actually 
use. But I also thought it likely that the sender of the money would have been provided with 
the transaction details including the exchange rate and could have decided not to proceed 
with it. I said it follows that I couldnt fairly order TSB pay Mr P the difference between its rate 
and the published Bank of England rate as that rate would not be available to a consumer or 
business.
I looked at the exchange rate information Mr P provided but I couldnt be sure that the 
sender would have used a different provider in circumstances where I made clear the sender 
would have been given the transaction details including the exchange rate. I also thought it 
likely that exchange rate calculations can vary due to a variety of factors and a provider may 
use for example a more preferable rate but apply an increased cost as I could see in one of 
the examples provided here. So, I couldnt be sure what alternative rate Mr P could have 
received and thought such a calculation in the circumstances was impossible to accurately 
carry out.
I was satisfied that Mr P received misleading information from TSB that caused distress and 
inconvenience and generated significant correspondence as a result. I didnt think £75 
compensation was appropriate and made clear that Mr P was caused additional 
inconvenience in retrieving the online conversation TSB said initially it couldnt find. I was 
satisfied that TSB should pay £250 compensation which I thought is fair and reasonable. I 
thought that award fairly reflects the length of time matters went on for and what I thought 
was the fairly significant inconvenience of checking information and calculations which I 
thought TSB wanted information about.
Both TSB and Mr P accept my provisional view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision I reached in my provisional view 
and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
TSB should pay £250 compensation and Mr Ps acceptance of this decision would be in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr P 
£250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 David Singh
Ombudsman