DRN-2610585
The complaint
Ms H says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She says that 
the loans werent affordable for her. She has been placed on repayment plan but none of the 
interest has been deducted so she still owes a large amount.
 
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Ms H between December 
2015 and March 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 13/12/2015 £390.00 5 05/01/2016
2 14/01/2016 £450.00 6 29/04/2016
3 12/06/2017 £500.00 6 03/11/2017
4 05/12/2017 £1,000.00 12 outstanding
5 06/03/2019 £1,500.00 12 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender was wrong to 
have approved loans 4 and 5. Ms H agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It didnt think that it needed to do better 
checks before approving loan 4. Ms H borrowed for specific reasons and the term and 
repayments were both reasonable. And there was very little evidence of a harmful lending 
pattern at loan 5. Ms H was repaying her loans as scheduled. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold loans 1 to 3. Because of 
this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making 
a decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms H had with 
Mr Lender. So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
she took.
Its fair to say that loan 3 was a new lending chain. But even taking this into account by loan 
4 it had been around six months since the start of this new lending period. But the most 
important factor here is that loan 4 is a much larger loan amount that the earlier loans and it 
was for a longer term. This was a significant commitment over a twelve month period.  
So I think Mr Lender couldve realised that Ms H may have some longer term financial 
problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Ms Hs 
true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Ms Hs financial situation And I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make sure Ms H 
was able to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Mr Lender did this, I think it largely relied on the information Ms H provided and 
what its credit checks showed. So, I need to think about what Mr Lender wouldve seen if it 
had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ms H has provided some information about her financial circumstances which includes her 
credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly what Mr Lender wouldve seen at the time. But 
I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think 
its reasonable to rely on it.This shows that Ms H was borrowing and repaying money to a significant amount of other 
short term lenders. And she was having problems making the repayments to these loans. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Ms H wouldnt have been able repay loan 4 in 
a sustainable way. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 4 to Ms H and I think 
shes lost out as a result of this. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 5 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending 
history with Ms H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so it 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Ms H was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. 
Ms H had been indebted to Mr Lender for around two years from loan 3. So, Mr 
Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms H was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loans were leaving in her finances and 
that Ms Hs indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ms Hs first loan was for £390 and loan 5 was for was for £1,500. At this point Mr 
Lender ought to have known that Ms H was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. I dont think was reasonable to 
say Ms H was only borrowing for one off needs. 
Overall, Ms H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr 
Lender over an extended period.
I think that Ms H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for shorter-term use over an extended period of time
the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Mr Lender should put 
things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms H from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Ms H loans 4 and 5.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then 
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms H having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms H. Mr Lender 
shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-
off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file in 
relation to loan 4. The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loan 5 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Hs credit file. Mr 
Lender does not have to remove loan 5 from Ms Hs credit file until these have been repaid, 
but Mr Lender should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if she asks 
for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Hs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman