DRN-3197938
The complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, were unreasonable to reject a claim he
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr W bought a used car on 3 December 2020. He paid part £14,500 for the car and used his
Halifax credit card to fund £1,400 of the price. The car was three years old and had
completed about 21,000.
On or about 8 December 2020 Mr W noticed faults with the car. There was kerb damage to
all four alloys and the bumper was damaged with lacquer peeling off. There was also some
damage to the central fresh air grill and there was a bulge in a tyre.
Mr W complained to the dealership, but they said the damage was wear and tear and to be
expected. So, Mr W raised a section 75 claim with Halifax.
Halifax didnt support his claim. They said the damage was wear and tear and the car was
sold at trade price without a warranty. They also suggested the damage could have
happened after Mr W took receipt of the car.
Our investigator wasnt of the opinion that Mr Ws claim should be upheld. She thought the
damage was most likely to be wear and tear and she explained that, as the damage would
have been clearly identifiable when Mr W inspected the car prior to purchase it couldnt later
be claimed to be a defect the dealership or Halifax were responsible for.
Mr W didnt agree, and the complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for
a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know it will disappoint Halifax, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view and
Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. It says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr W. The car here was about
three years old and had already completed about 21,000 miles so I think a reasonable
person would expect a little wear and tear.
I think all of the damage that Mr W reported, and that Ive set out in the background to this
complaint, was likely to have been present when the car was supplied to Mr W. I say that
because the health check and subsequent quote, and report, from an authorised dealership
shows it was present only five days after Mr W took receipt of the car. I think there was
limited opportunity for the damage in several areas of the car to have occurred in that very
limited timeframe.
But the relevant legislation says that where the consumer examines the goods before the
contract is made and where that examination ought to reveal the fault, it shouldnt be
considered to be unsatisfactory.
Mr W has provided photographs of the bumper and I dont think the damage was clearly
visible in an inspection. Hes also explained that he collected the car at 7pm in December,
when it would have been dark. The collection wasnt at a brightly lit showroom it was in a
train station car park. I think its unlikely an adequate inspection could have taken place in
those conditions and as Mr W raised the problem so soon after he collected the car I dont
think he accepted the car in that condition. It seems to me more likely that the condition
wasnt initially evident as conditions prevented an adequate inspection.
The relevant legislation also allowed Mr W a short term right to reject the car, without the
supplier being entitled to repair it, if a fault was identified within the first 14 days. Mr W was
simply seeking to have the car repaired and I think given the timescales and the evidence of
a fault, it would have been reasonable for the supplier to have supported Mr Ws claim.
So, I am persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was not of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
I think Halifax were therefore unreasonable not to have supported Mr Ws complaint.
They should therefore refund any costs Mr W has incurred, and can evidence payment for,
relating to either the bumper or alloy wheel repairs and they should refund the cost Mr W
incurred to have the bulging tyre replaced.If Mr W hasnt completed repairs Halifax should arrange those repairs on his behalf.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of the clean air grill damage as I think that
would have been something Mr W could reasonably have been expected to notice at the
point of sale. The interior lighting wasnt affected by the exterior conditions.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Bank of
Scotland plc to:
refund any costs Mr W has incurred and can evidence payment for relating to either
the bumper or alloy wheel repairs and/or the bulging tyre replacement. Add 8%
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If repairs havent been completed to those areas the business should organise and
pay for those repairs.
Refund the cost of the inspection report/reports Mr W commissioned to evidence his
concerns, on provision of receipts from Mr W. Add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc to take off tax from this interest. the
business must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr W asks for
one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W didnt have any additional information to add and neither did Halifax who agreed to 
accept my decision. Halifax did explain that they werent in a position to arrange repairs but 
that they would reimburse the costs if Mr W sent them the invoices.  
Putting things right
Ive not seen any additional information that has led me to change my provisional decision 
and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
I accept Halifaxs suggestion that Mr W should arrange his own repairs, if necessary, and 
send them receipts to refund.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Bank of Scotland plc to:
refund any costs Mr W has incurred and can evidence payment for relating to either
the bumper or alloy wheel repairs and/or the bulging tyre replacement. Add 8%
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If repairs havent been completed to those areas the business should reimburse the 
costs of those repairs on provision of receipts from Mr W.
Refund the cost of the inspection report/reports Mr W commissioned to evidence his
concerns, on provision of receipts from Mr W. Add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc to take off tax from this interest. thebusiness must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr W asks for
one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman