DRN-2266617
The complaint
Mr R has complained about One Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes their agents.
What happened
Mr R took out his car insurance policy with One Insurance in October 2019. He was the 
policyholder and his wife was a named driver. Mr R took out the policy through an online 
comparison website.
Unfortunately, the car was stolen from Mr Rs drive at the end of February 2020. Mr R 
claimed on his policy for the theft. While One Insurance looked into the claim, they did some 
checks. They found out that Mr Rs wife had a fault claim against her resulting from an 
incident in 2017.
When Mr R took out the policy, one of the questions the comparison website asked him was 
whether either he or his wife had any driving incidents or made any insurance claims in the 
last 5 years? But Mr R didnt tell One Insurance about his wifes claim in 2017. He later 
explained that he didnt know about it at the time.
One Insurance voided (treated as though it never came into existence) Mr Rs policy; didnt 
pay his claim; and refunded his full premium. One Insurance said, under their rules (known 
as underwriting guidelines), they dont insure anyone who has a fault claim in the past three 
years. So, had they known about Mrs Rs 2017 claim when Mr R was applying for the policy, 
they wouldnt have provided cover.
Mr R didnt think that was fair and complained. But One Insurance didnt uphold it. Mr R 
didn't think that was reasonable so he brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She felt that One Insurances decision was unfair. She said that if One 
Insurance knew about Mrs Rs past claim they would have refused to insure Mrs R as a 
named driver, but they would have still insured Mr R as the registered keeper of the car. As 
One Insurance didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for reasons similar to those given by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
One Insurance have suggested that Mr R not telling them about his wifes 2017 claim 
amounted to, whats known in the insurance industry as, a careless misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers 
may void the policy and refuse all claims if they wouldnt have provided cover had the correct 
information been given by the policyholder when applying for the policy. Where that happens, 
the insurer must return the premium, which is what One Insurance have done. 
For One Insurance to take the action it did, CIDRA says the misrepresentation made must 
be a qualifying misrepresentation. A qualifying misrepresentation is where: (a) the 
consumer breached their duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation; and 
(b) the insurer shows that without the misrepresentation, the insurer would not have entered 
into the contract of insurance at all, or would have done so only on different terms. I will look 
at each requirement in turn.
Firstly, theres no dispute that when taking out the policy Mr R breached his duty to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. He had to take reasonable care to answer 
all the questions accurately. Thats because One Insurance, like all insurers, will decide 
whether or not to provide cover; on what terms; and at what cost depending on the answers 
given by the prospective policyholder. Mr R said his wife didnt have any claims in the past 
five years when she clearly did. That was a misrepresentation. Mr R explained that at the 
time he answered that question he wasnt aware that his wife had that past claim. He could 
have taken reasonable car by asking his wife about her claims history before answering the 
question, but he didnt. One Insurance accept that Mr Rs misrepresentation was a careless 
one and I agree that to be the case.
I will now consider the second element to see whether Mr Rs misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. The question I must consider is this: what would One Insurance have done if 
Mr R had answered the question accurately and said his wife did have a claim in the past 
five years?
Ive seen One Insurances underwriting criteria. Each insurer sets their own underwriting 
criteria which are the rules they follow to determine whether or not they will provide someone 
with cover. One Insurances rules say that they dont provide cover to anyone who has had a 
fault claim in the past three years. So, I can say with certainty that if One Insurance had 
known at that stage about the past claim, they wouldnt have offered Mr R the policy with his 
wife as a named driver. But for there to be a qualifying misrepresentation, CIDRA says the 
insurer must show that without the misrepresentation, that insurer would not have entered 
into the contract at all, or would have done so only on different terms. 
CIDRA, under Schedule 1, Part 1, goes onto say:
6 If the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance contract, but 
on different terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be 
treated as if it had been entered into on those different terms if the insurer so 
requires.
7 In addition, if the insurer would have entered into the consumer insurance 
contract (whether the terms relating to matters other than the premium would have 
been the same or different), but would have charged a higher premium, the insurer 
may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
I understand from One Insurance that they would have provided cover to Mr R alone as the 
registered keeper of the car. So, I think its fair to say that if Mr R had answered the question 
accurately, One Insurance would have refused to provide cover with his wife as a named 
driver but, to use CIDRAs wording, they would have done so only on different terms. In 
other words, they would have insured Mr R alone without his wife on the policy as a named 
driver. The car was leased to Mr R and registered in his name. He said the car was for his 
everyday use and he relied on it. And he said when taking out the policy that he was the main user and his wife was an infrequent user. I believe if faced with the option of either 
having no cover at all or cover excluding his wife, Mr R would have still taken out the policy 
without his wife being on the policy as a named driver. 
So, even though Mr R made a misrepresentation I think One Insurance would have offered 
Mr R the policy on different terms if they had known about his wifes past claim. That means 
it was unfair of them to have voided the policy and to have not dealt with the claim. Instead 
they should have followed the remedies CIDRA offered in paras 6 and 7 of schedule 1 as 
I've set out above. 
Finally, I want to respond to a point raised by One Insurance. They said that in the past our 
service has made findings in their favour in other similar complaints. I should say that we 
look at each case on its own merits and decide whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of each case. And we are not bound to follow decisions made in past 
complaints.
Putting things right
To put things right: One Insurance should treat the policy as having been in Mr Rs name 
only without his wife as a named driver; deal with the claim in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy; and amend all records to correct the voidance against Mr Rs driving 
history. If the policy would have cost more without Mr Rs wife, One Insurance can, in 
accordance with CIDRA, deal with the claim proportionately. By that I mean they could work 
out what percentage of the correct premium Mr R had actually paid and limit their settlement 
of any claim to that percentage. One Insurance can also deduct the policy excess from any 
settlement. One Insurance can also deduct from any settlement the original premium 
charged which they later refunded to Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require One Insurance Limited to:
Treat the policy as having been in Mr Rs name only without his wife as a named 
driver.
Deal with the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. If the 
policy would have cost more without Mr Rs wife, One Insurance can, in accordance 
with CIDRA, deal with the claim proportionately. One Insurance can deduct from any 
settlement the policy excess and the original premium charged which was later 
refunded to Mr R.
Amend all records to correct the voidance against Mr Rs driving history.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman