DRN-3057711
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain, via their representative, about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) 
decision to decline their claim on their home insurance for contents in their garden that 
were removed and disposed of after being damaged by foul waste.
References to Mr and Mrs S, or their representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Ageas involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Ageas.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a leak of foul water from a communal drain which went in to their 
basement area and garden and left items inside their property and in their garden damaged 
and contaminated.
They made a claim on their home insurance policy which they held with Ageas.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster and it undertook a survey of the property to assess the 
damage. It recommended that the contents that were contaminated and beyond economic 
repair were removed and disposed of. 
Ageas organised to collect all the contaminated contents and disposed of them, and on the 
day that they were removed, Mr S signed the disposal form. 
Mr and Mrs S were paid £1000 by Ageas which was the maximum sum insured on their 
contents policy for contents stored in the open.  A separate settlement was made for 
contents inside the house. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative made a complaint on their behalf to Ageas that the £1000 
received was not enough to cover the contents removed and that if the contents were not 
covered by their insurance that they should have been given the option as to keep them in 
their contaminated and damaged state. They say they were told by the loss adjuster that 
they were covered and advised not to be concerned. They claim that the garden contents 
have been taken away and destroyed without permission.
The representative says that the value of the contents from garden that were disposed of 
totalled approximately £8000 and wants Ageas to pay them a further £7000. Plus, a further 
£700 plus VAT for their fee as the representative of Mr and Mrs S.
As Mr and Mrs Ss representative was not happy with Ageas, they brought the complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He looked in to the case and decided that the 
claim had been fairly paid to the maximum allowed under the terms of their insurance policy. 
As the representative is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said: 
The full claim made to Ageas by Mr and Mrs S was for damage to the building and loss of 
contents both inside their house and in the garden. In my response I will not commment on 
the claim for the buildings claim or contents inside the house, as this does not form part of 
this complaint. I shall only comment on the complaint about the contents in the garden.
It is clear that the contents had been damaged by foul water and were contaminated. Due to 
the nature of the contamination of them, they were found to be beyond economical repair 
and as such  Ageas proposed that they should be removed and disposed of. 
Ageas organised for the damaged items to be removed and Mr and Mrs Ss representetive 
now says that this was done without permission,  and has recently has referred to this as 
theft.  I dont agree that the items were taken without permission as there is clear evidence 
by way of the signed disposal form that Mr S gave permission to dispose of the items on the 
list, on the day of removal. He was also in attendance whilst this happened.
The representative said that after all the contents from both inside and outside were 
removed, that Mr and Mrs S became aware that there was a limit of £1000 for their outside 
contents. The representative claims that there was approximately £8000 of contents in the 
garden. I am not clear where this figure comes from. Ive not seen evidence on the file to 
confirm such values.
The representative said that Mr and Mrs S had been told verbally by the loss adjuster from 
Ageas that their contents were covered by their policy and that if they had known that the 
policy only covered the contents in their garden to the maximum of £1000, then they would 
have kept them and attempted to clean and restore them themselves even though they had 
been contaminated.  
I looked at Mr and Mrs Ss policy schedule to ensure that it was clear and found the contents 
cover amount was obvious as were the specific policy limits which were plainly detailed in 
the schedule of insurance.  
It states in the key facts section
Contents in the open
The most the insurer will pay is £1000 per claim and £250 per single article, except 
for pedal cycles where the limit is £350 per pedal cycle
Unfortunately, in this case Mr and Mrs S did not have enough cover for the value of the 
items their representative claims were in the garden at the time of the incident. 
Mr and Mrs Ss garden was full of items contaminated by foul waste and I feel that it is 
reasonable to believe that Mr S was keen to have them removed and signed for their 
removal on the day in good faith. I feel that it is understandable that he is not likely to have 
thought about policy limits at that time. 
I believe that the responsibility for ensuring that adequate insurance cover was in place was 
that of Mr and Mrs S and that Ageas has paid out the maximum sum insured, for the 
contents of the garden, under the terms and conditions of the policy. However  I feel that 
Ageas could have been clearer to them that removal of the garden items did not guarantee 
payment in full and for that reason I think that Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs S £200 to 
compensate for the distress and upset caused once they realised that they were not covered 
in full for all items that had been removed and disposed of.
Responses to my provisional decisionAgeas responded to confirm it had received the provisional decision but had no more to
add.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative responded to confirm he was still unhappy with the outcome. 
He said 
The complaint is about Ageas removing and disposing of items that did not form part of 
the claim, not raising a query about the level of cover.
The insurance company were not right to remove and dispose of items that they felt were 
beyond economical repair and not give the customer the opportunity to obtain any 
salvage.
That responsibility of understanding the levels of cover were with the professionals 
appointed by Ageas.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The reason for the complaint from Mr and Mrs Ss representative is that he is seeking to be 
paid for items removed from Mr and Mrs Ss garden by Ageas. At the start of this complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative said that as the claim progressed a limit was applied for the 
items removed, and now states that the items removed were not part of the claim.  
However the fact remains that the resolution requested has not changed, and the 
representative is still seeking payment for items that were removed by Ageas and are not 
covered under the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy. 
The reason for their removal was because they were contaminated with sewage and were a 
health and safety risk. The items removed were not salvageable due to the nature of the 
contamination and the evidence shows that Mr S gave his permission for their removal.  If 
they had been left in the garden they would have been a health and safety risk and Mr and 
Mrs S would have needed to have them removed at their own expense. 
I have already acknowledged that Ageas could have been clearer about the removal of the 
items not guaranteeing payment in full and recommended £200 compensation is paid.
I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss representative has said anything that requires me to change the 
details as set out in my provisional decision.
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain the provisional decision.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold the complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr and Mrs S a total compensation of £200 for the distress and upset it has caused 
them. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs S accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman