DRN-3973253
The complaint
Ms B complains that Creation Financial Services Limited failed to collect a direct debit 
payment.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2022 Creation sent Ms B a credit card statement that said it would collect the 
outstanding balance in full by direct debit. On the same day, Creation sent Ms B a letter that 
said her direct debit instruction had been cancelled. Ms B has confirmed the letter wasnt 
received and that she expected the payment to be collected by direct debit.
The payment wasnt collected and, a few days later, Ms B contacted Creation and spoke 
with an agent. Ms B was told the direct debit instruction had likely been cancelled as it hadnt 
been collected for 12 months. Ms B complained and said that she was willing to settle the 
balance due on her account but didnt think it was fair to charge her a late payment fee or 
interest.
Creation issued a final response and accepted Ms B was given unclear information when 
she called as well as the wrong email address to challenge the charges. Creation said the 
direct debit instruction had expired as it wasnt collected for a 12 month period. Creation 
agreed to refund the late fee and interest and paid Ms B £100. Creation also apologised for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Bs complaint. They thought Creation had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Ms B asked to appeal and said the issues 
raised had a broader impact in terms of other customers. Ms B also said shed provided 
evidence to show the dormancy period required before a direct debit instruction expired was 
originally 13 months but had been increased to 24 months due to the pandemic. As Ms B 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation consistently told Ms B her direct debit instruction expired after it wasnt collected for 
12 months. But I agree with Ms B that the response doesnt reflect direct debit dormancy 
rules. The dormancy rules originally said a direct debit instruction would expire if uncollected 
for 13 months. That in itself is different to Creations response. But in 2020 the guidance 
changed to say that the dormancy period had increased to 24 months. I agree with Ms B that 
Creations responses dont reflect industry guidance.
I recently asked Creation for further comment on this point as well a copy of the call Ms B 
had with its agent when the missed payment came about. Creation responded to say the 
direct debit had become dormant in line with the 13 month dormancy rule. It wasnt able to 
say why its approach failed to reflect up to date industry guidance. But Creation confirmed it 
would review its information regarding the dormancy rule.
Ive also listened to Ms Bs call with Creation. The call handler was unable to explain exactly 
why the direct debit instruction was cancelled and referred Ms B back to her bank. I note the 
agent gave Ms B the wrong email address to use for her follow up queries. And I agree with 
Ms B that the service provided wasnt up to standard and can see it caused her unnecessary 
frustration.
Ms Bs response to the investigator raises the dormancy issues more broadly and has told 
us shes concerned about other customers. I take Ms Bs point, but as a service we consider 
complaints on an individual basis. So I can only look at how the issues Ms B has raised 
impacted her. We cant tell a business to change the way it operates more generally. Whilst 
thats the case, Creations recent response has confirmed it is going to review the 
information it provides.
Looking at Ms Bs case, Creation refunded the late fee and interest when it responded to her 
complaint. So theres no financial loss. Creation also paid Ms B £100 and apologised in its 
final response. Ive considered how to fairly resolve Ms Bs complaint. Ms Bs told us she felt 
shamed by Creations service and agent and that the £100 paid to date doesnt reflect that or 
the distress caused. And I think the £100 settlement Creation paid fails to recognise the 
service provided over an extended period. So, in addition to the compensation already paid, 
I intend to increase the award by a further £100. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects 
the impact of the issues raised on Ms B.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points they wanted me to consider. 
Creation responded and forwarded a previously unseen response to Ms Bs complaint that 
showed it had offered a total of £150 to date, not £100 as set out in my provisional decision. 
I responded and said I still thought a further £100 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused was fair in the circumstances of Ms Bs complaint. We updated Ms B 
with the small change in settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, Im going to proceed in 
line with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Creation should pay 
a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms B, for the same reasons.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct Creation Financial Services Limited 
to pay her a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman