DRN-2828880
The complaint
 Mr R complains about the quality of a car hes been financing through an agreement with
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would agree with much of what the investigator has proposed and Im expecting to uphold
this complaint but the redress Im suggesting is a little different. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
the quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
This was a new car when it was supplied to Mr R and I think a reasonable person would
expect it to be fault free, but I dont think that can be said to have been the case here.
Theres a tyre skipping problem that Mr R wasnt warned would be an issue on the car he
was financing and there were also problems with a water damaged headlight and a faulty air
bag all within the first six months after supply.
The relevant legislation explains that if problems occur within the first six months they are to
be assumed to have been present at the point of supply  when MBFS were responsible for
the quality of the car; unless the business can demonstrate otherwise. 
I dont think MBFS have been able to do that here and I think repairs have failed, so the 
appropriate remedy is for them to now allow Mr R to reject the car.
I can see that MBFS have agreed to that but that our investigator doesnt think the redress
theyve suggested is enough.
the redress
MBFS should take the car back and end Mr Rs finance agreement.
I think Mr R has been inconvenienced by matters. Hes had to take the car back to the
dealership on several occasions and hes had to progress a complaint through this service
and through the Motor Ombudsman when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In
those circumstances I would agree that MBFS should pay him £150 compensation.
Mr R paid a deposit to secure the car and to potentially secure ownership of it in the future.
In those circumstances our usual approach is to tell the business to refund the whole deposit
and I see no reason to depart from that here. MBFS should add 8% simple interest to that
refund as Mr R has been deprived of that money.
MBFS should refund all the monthly payments that Mr R has made to them but its only fair
that Mr R pays for the use hes had from the car. The finance agreement was established on
an 8,000 miles per year (667 per month) mileage allowance. I think thats a reasonable
reflection of the mileage Mr R expected to travel in the vehicle. Ive thought about MBFSs
objections to using this figure as a guide, but Im persuaded its the best approach in the
circumstances. The investigator suggested MBFS should retain 13 monthly instalments as
Mr R had covered about 8,513 miles when she provided her view. But as Mr R will probably
have covered more miles now Im asking MBFS to apply the following formula to work out
how many monthly instalments to retain:
miles completed on collection divided by 667 and rounded to the nearest whole number.
Mr R has asked me to consider some costs that he says hes incurred as a consequence of
the problems with the car. He says hes had to reinsure and tax the car, but Im not
persuaded to refund these costs as I think they would be incurred on any car he was
utilising. Hes also asked me to consider refunding the cost hes incurred to have the tyres
changed on his car. He says this is a result of the tyre slipping hes experienced but Ive not
seen any further evidence to support his view and, on balance, I dont think I have enough to
fairly say the wear is unusual and the tyres wouldnt have needed replacing anyway. So, Im
not expecting to tell MBFS to refund any consequential losses. 
the adjudication from the Motor Ombudsman
Mr R has already received an adjudication from this alternative dispute resolution (ADR)
provider but the adjudication is against the dealership and not MBFS.
MBFS have suggested that as theres been a finding from an equivalent ADR service we do
not have jurisdiction to consider Mr Rs complaint.
I dont agree with them. This is a dismissal issue and not a jurisdiction issue. We can look at
the complaint, but the question is whether we should.Wed usually take into account the findings of the other ADR body and here I can see that
their initial view is broadly in line with our view on this matter. Their view has been helpful to
me when ensuring I make a fully informed decision.
Im aware that other ADRs may have more limited terms of references so may not have
considered all aspects of the complaint.
Its clearly unfair for Mr R to benefit from any redress suggested by the Motor Ombudsman
and to benefit from the redress Im suggesting. So, in my decision Im suggesting MBFS
provide the redress Im ordering on provision that Mr R accepts he will not proceed with his
claim through the Motor Ombudsman and will not seek to benefit from any redress they have
ordered.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and on the provision that Mr R will not proceed with his
claim through the Motor Ombudsman and will not seek to benefit from any redress they have
ordered, I am expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr R;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been
caused;
refund all the finance instalments Mr R has paid less a number of instalments in
respect of the use Mr R has had from the car. The number of retained instalments is
to be calculated by taking the miles completed on collection of the car, dividing it by
667 and rounding to the nearest whole number.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to
this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS didnt have anything else to add but Mr R was disappointed with the amount of 
finance instalments I was suggesting MBFS should refund. He explained that if MBFS had 
accepted the investigators proposal he wouldnt have had to pay the last six and wouldnt 
have had to pay for additional items such as tyres.
Putting things right
Ive reconsidered all the all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr R has provided any additional information which would persuade me to 
increase the instalments Im asking MBFS to refund. I think the approach Ive suggested is 
the most reasonable way to consider the usage Mr R has had from the car and, as the 
mileage will have changed since the investigator provided her view, its clear there will need 
to be an adjustment. I still, think the formula Ive set out in my provisional view is the fairest 
way to calculate the refund of any instalments.Ive not found sufficient evidence to change my provisional decision and that now becomes 
my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and on the provision that Mr R will not proceed with his
claim through the Motor Ombudsman and will not seek to benefit from any redress they have
ordered, I am upholding this complaint and telling Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr R;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been
caused;
refund all the finance instalments Mr R has paid less a number of instalments in
respect of the use Mr R has had from the car. The number of retained instalments is
to be calculated by taking the miles completed on collection of the car, dividing it by
667 and rounding to the nearest whole number.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to
this issue.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman