DRN-3809689
The complaint
Mr Fs complained (via his representative, Mrs F) about the level of the fee he was charged 
by Money Redress Limited (MRL) after MRL submitted a claim on his behalf to the 
Financial Services Compensation (FSCS) in respect of a mis-sold pension.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr F signed an agreement with MRL for MRL to act on his behalf in recovering 
compensation in relation to a pension hed held.  The agreement provided that, in the event 
of a successful claim, MRL would be paid a fee equivalent to 25% plus VAT (a total of 30%) 
of the sum recovered. 
The pension provider had ceased to trade so the claim was submitted to the FSCS.  The 
FSCS considered the claim and awarded Mr F £85,000 in early 2022.  MRL contacted Mrs F 
to confirm receipt and that they would be deducting their fee of £25,500 from the award.
Mrs F challenged the level of the fee as she was aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) were introducing a cap on fees of 20%, or £10,000.  She said shed sent MRL 
information about this.  MRLs call handler confirmed that the cap only applied to 
agreements signed after March 2022.  So she said Mr Fs fee would remain at 25% plus 
VAT.
Mrs F complained on behalf of her husband.  MRL rejected the complaint.  They explained in 
their final response letter that the cap on fees was introduced by the FCA from 1 March 2022 
and didnt apply to contracts which existed before that date.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with MRLs response.  So Mrs F brought it to our service for him.  Our 
investigator considered the complaint and concluded the fee cap didnt apply to Mr Fs claim 
because hed signed an agreement with MRL in June 2020  before it came into force.  So 
MRL didnt have to reduce their fee from what was in the contract.  
And the investigator noted Mrs F had said shed have cancelled the agreement for Mr F if 
MRL had responded to the information shed sent them about the fee cap.  He noted MRL 
had tried to call Mrs F after this but werent successful.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.  I know thats not the outcome he was 
hoping for.  Ill explain why Ive come to that decision.
I understand why Mr Fs concerned.  Hes already lost a large sum of money.  And the 
£85,000 award from the FSCS  which is the maximum they can make  doesnt cover his 
losses.  So its understandable he wants to recover what he can, to provide for the future.
But I can only say MRL should reduce their fees if I think theyve done something wrong.  I 
dont think thats the case here.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Mr F signed in 2020.  The section on fees says:
If We do not succeed in obtaining Compensation based on the Claim, You pay nothing.
 Our Fee is be 25% plus VAT (30% total) of the Compensation offered to You 
The terms go on to provide examples of how the fee would be applied.  I think that term 
makes it clear that Mr Fs fee will be 30% of whatever is recovered.
MRL made various amendments to their terms in mid-2021 and asked Mr F to sign the 
amended version.  But the new terms confirmed there were no changes to the fee 
arrangements.  Mr F also signed these terms.  So Im satisfied he accepted hed be charged 
30% of whatever he was awarded.  So, on the face of it, thats what MRL can charge.
I cant see that Mr F (or Mrs F on his behalf) has suggested the fees arent clear.  Rather, 
theyve suggested that the FCAs decision on fees should supersede the agreement.
Ive considered this.  But I dont agree.  The FCAs policy statement, which introduced the 
change from 1 March 2022 says:
The cap will not apply to pre-existing contracts except where the contracts are varied to 
increase fees or add new fees and except where new claims are added to the contract or the 
customer did not authorise or instruct the firm to act in relation to the claim until after the 
rules came into force (in which case, the new claims will be subject to the cap). We have not 
proceeded with our proposal to apply the cap to all claims under contracts that were entered 
into before the rules come into force.
Again, I think that makes it clear to which agreements the cap applies.  Im satisfied Mr Fs 
agreement isnt one of them.  That means I cant say MRL were wrong not to apply the cap 
to his agreement.  And for that reason, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint about Money Redress 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman