DRN-3740323
The complaint
Mr B has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) did not temporarily stop 
charging him for a Privilege Premier account when the pandemic struck.
Mr B says that Co-op shouldve stopped charging him for his packaged account as he says 
he was unable to use the benefits (such as travel insurance and breakdown cover) because 
of the restrictions that were in place during the pandemic. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that Co-op had acted 
unfairly in this matter. Mr B disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B feels that Co-op shouldve agreed to waive the monthly fee for the 
Privilege Premier account on the grounds that he was unable to use many of the benefits it 
provided.
I can see that Mr B called Co-op in April 2020 and asked if the monthly Privilege Premier 
account fees could be paused as he was getting little benefit from the account. It was 
explained to Mr B that, at the time of calling, Co-Op was not suspending the account fees 
and so if Mr B was no longer getting any benefit from the account, it was explained that he 
could downgrade to a fee-free account at any point. It was pointed out however, that if Mr B 
did this, he could not revert back to the Privilege Premier account as it was no longer on 
sale. 
The member of staff Mr B spoke to did say however that shed check if Co-op would be 
looking to change its stance on not waiving the monthly account fees and said shed get 
back to Mr B shortly. Unfortunately, it seems that Co-op didnt get back in touch with Mr B  
which prompted Mr B to then make a complaint.
In terms of Mr Bs request that the monthly Privilege Premier account fees were waived, I 
dont think Co-op was being unreasonable by not allowing Mr B to keep the Privilege 
Premier account without charge. I say this because the benefits provided by the account do 
not operate like typical insurance policies. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 
months, like a typical insurance policy would, it provides cover (and access to non-insurance 
benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. 
Therefore, Mr B was not locked into keeping it for a certain period of time and he was free to 
cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good value for money  and Co-op explained 
this to him during the call. So I dont think Co-op was being unreasonable by saying that it 
wont offer him the opportunity to keep it for free until some future time when he might find it 
useful again.
I appreciate that Co-op had stopped selling the Privilege Premier account. So I do 
understand that if Mr B chose to downgrade it, he wouldnt be able to obtain it again. But I 
dont think that means Co-op was being unfair by not waiving the monthly fees for account 
holders. After all, whilst Mr B may not have been using many of the benefits, other account 
holders may well have still been relying them. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably. Co-op 
gave Mr B the choice of downgrading his account to a standard fee-free account if he no 
longer needed the benefits provided. Mr B was then free to obtain the relevant benefits from 
elsewhere, as and when he needed them again. Alternatively, it was made clear to Mr B that 
the Privilege Premier account was no longer on sale. So Mr B had the choice of continuing 
to pay for the account, if he wanted to retain the benefits so he could use them again once 
the pandemic restrictions had lifted. In the circumstances, I dont think these are 
unreasonable options to have provided Mr B. 
Having said that, I note that Co-op did say it would get back in contact with him, to confirm 
whether the fees would be waived at some point. And unfortunately, Co-op didnt follow up 
on this promise. In response to the complaint, Co-op apologised and paid Mr B £25  
although it did confirm that it was still not prepared to waive the fees. 
Having considered this, I dont think that Co-op needs to do anything further, as ultimately Mr 
B had not lost out as a result of Co-op not getting back to him. I say this because, as matters 
were left, Mr B was aware that Co-op was not waiving the monthly account fees (at that point 
in time)  and Mr B was clearly aware he was still paying for the account  as that was why 
he phoned up. Mr B was told that if he wasnt benefiting from the account he could 
downgrade to a fee-free account if he didnt want to keep paying the monthly account fee. 
And given that Mr B said in the call that he didnt want to lose the benefits of the Privilege 
Premier account by downgrading it and so kept paying for the account, I cant see that he 
lost out due to Co-ops failure to get back to him, that is until it responded to his complaint.
As such, whilst things clearly didnt go as they shouldve in this complaint, overall I dont 
think Co-op needs to do anything more than what it has already done to put matters right.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman