DRN-4363519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt give them an answer when they asked 
to extend the term of their interest only mortgage. They also complain that it didnt offer them 
an interest rate product when their term expired. Interest rates increased during the delays, 
reducing their options and increasing their costs. Mr and Mrs T ask that Lloyds extends the 
mortgage term, offers them interest rate products and compensates them for financial loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have an interest only mortgage with Lloyds. The term expired in December 
2021. The term had previously been extended by three years. Mr T says this was due to 
changes to the age at which Mr and Mrs T would be entitled to a state pension.
Mr and Mrs T say they took independent financial advice and in early 2022 were advised to 
ask Lloyds to extend the term for three years. This was so that they could explore options for 
later life mortgage products. Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds said it would consider an extension 
with an interest rate product and give them a response by late March 2022. 
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt get an answer from Lloyds, despite them writing and asking for 
an extension. During 2022 interest rates increased. This increased Mr and Mrs Ts monthly 
payments and limited their options to re-mortgage. They say Lloyds didnt give them details 
of interest rate products.
Our investigator said while Lloyds had caused some delays, this hadnt caused Mr and 
Mrs T any loss. Lloyds couldnt agree to an extension without information from Mr and Mrs T, 
which they didnt provide. Our investigator said Mr and Mrs T had consistently told Lloyds 
they needed more time to take further advice. Lloyds put holds on recovery action to give 
them time to look into their options. 
Our investigator said Lloyds should pay £150 for the upset caused by not calling Mr and 
Mrs T when arranged and for mistakes in its final response letter.
Mr T explained why they didnt agree and provided his own timeline and notes of discussions 
with Lloyds.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. Im required to explain why I reach my 
decision. But I dont have to answer each point raised by the parties. Ive reviewed both 
Mr Ts notes and Lloyds notes of what happened and what was discussed. I should explain 
that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Lloyds wasnt required to write to Mr and Mrs T offering interest rate products. During the 
mortgage term they could have contacted Lloyds if they wanted to ask about taking out a 
new product. Lloyds says it wrote to Mr and Mrs T when their interest rate changed, as Id 
expect it to do. 
I wouldnt expect Lloyds to send information about interest rate products to Mr and Mrs T 
when their mortgage term expired and their balance became due to be repaid. Fixed interest 
rate products usually have an early repayment charge (ERC). Lloyds wasnt required to offer 
Mr and Mrs T a new interest rate product, and I dont think it would have been fair to do so in 
circumstances where Mr and Mrs T might have to pay an ERC. 
That leads to the issue as to whether Lloyds should fairly have agreed to extend the term of 
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs T about the expiry of their mortgage term. It sent a letter dated 
10 December 2019 which set out the mortgage expiry date, the outstanding balance and that 
Mr and Mrs T had said they intended to repay the balance with an inheritance. It sent further 
letters about the need to repay the mortgage at the end of the term in January 2021, July 
2021 and in November 2021. The letters gave contact details if they needed to speak to 
Lloyds about their options.
In December 2021 Mr T told Lloyds they were taking advice. In early 2022 he said they 
looked into re-mortgaging, but this didnt proceed due to adverse data recorded (Mr T says 
incorrectly) on Mrs Ts credit file. In February 2022 Mr T told Lloyds hed spoken to two 
brokers who told him equity release products wouldnt be available to them for another three 
years due to their ages. Other later life products werent available as the loan to value was 
too high. Mr T asked Lloyds to extend the term of the mortgage for three years on an interest 
only basis.
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict affordability checks before 
offering or varying a mortgage. For an interest only mortgage, this includes checking theres 
a credible repayment strategy. Mr and Mrs T wanted Lloyds to vary their mortgage by 
extending the term. Rules on mortgage regulation provide limited exceptions which could 
allow Lloyds to extend the mortgage term despite concerns about affordability if it assessed 
this to be in Mr and Mrs Ts best interests. 
Mr and Mrs T provided income and expenditure information to Lloyds in February 2022, so it 
could help them explore their options. Mr and Mrs T didnt meet loan to value criteria for a 
retirement interest only mortgage and Lloyds doesnt offer lifetime mortgages. An extension 
with all or part of the balance on repayment terms wasnt affordable unless the term was 
extended past Mr and Mrs Ts 90th birthdays. Mr and Mrs T had no savings or investments 
they could use to reduce the balance. Their preference was for a three-year extension on 
interest only terms. While none of these options met Lloyds lending criteria, it agreed to 
consider them outside its usual policy. 
Lloyds didnt confirm the outcome of this to Mr and Mrs T until May 2022  some three 
months later. It said it would consider an extension on a part repayment and part interest 
only basis, subject to a further review. It arranged to call Mr and Mrs T in mid-May 2022 to 
carry out the review. Lloyds failed to call as arranged. However, I dont think it was 
responsible for delays after this, or for the proposal to extend on a part and part basis not 
progressing. The reason for this was that Mr and Mrs T didnt provide the information Lloyds 
needed to decide if this would be in their best interests.  
Lloyds tried to call Mr and Mrs T on 1 June 2022. When it spoke to Mr T in mid-June 2022 
he said he wanted to write in with questions before proceeding. When Lloyds spoke to Mr T in mid-July 2022 he was feeling unwell and unable to talk. Mr T told Lloyds in September 
2022 he wanted a response to all of his complaint points before going ahead. He also said 
the adverse data on Mrs Ts credit file was preventing them moving ahead with their broker. 
In mid-October 2022 Mr T said he was still waiting for points made in his complaint to be 
clarified before discussing his options. He said they hadnt yet spoken to a broker that 
specialised in lifetime mortgage products and wanted time to do this. In early 2023, Mr and 
Mrs T still hadnt taken advice from a specialist broker. They said they were considering 
selling the property and moving closer to family.
Lloyds put holds on recovery action through 2022 and into 2023 to allow Mr and Mrs T time 
to explore their options. I think this was fair. 
Lloyds was entitled to take some time to consider what it might be able to offer Mr and 
Mrs T, outside its usual policy. However, I can understand why Mr and Mrs T feel it took too 
long between February and May 2022 in doing so, especially as it didnt update them in 
March 2022 as they expected. Lloyds did give them an outcome in early May 2022, but 
didnt contact them as arranged in mid-May 2022 to review their circumstances. 
I dont think this caused financial loss to Mr and Mrs T. When Lloyds did offer to consider an 
extension on a part and part basis Mr and Mrs T didnt progress this. I cant fairly find theyd 
have done so if Lloyds had offered this a month or so earlier. I cant fairly find that Lloyds 
would certainly have offered an extension if they had provided the information it needed to 
assess whether this was in their best interests. 
Mr T says they missed out on options available to them in May 2022, before interest rates 
increased. But hed told Lloyds they didnt have options due to their ages, the loan to value 
ratio and adverse data on Mrs Ts credit file. I cant fairly find that any delays by Lloyds 
resulted in financial loss due to Mr and Mrs T missing out on options they told Lloyds they 
didnt have. 
I think, in the circumstances, compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable for the upset 
caused by any delays, and by mistakes in Lloyds response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to extend the term of Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage, apply an interest rate product or pay further compensation.
As I said, I dont have to reply to all of Mr Ts points. But, for completeness, Ill address 
Mr Ts three complaint points as he describes them:
1. The Complaint Managers decision that a simple apology and no tangible redress for the 
potential financial detriment caused by the delay for which the Bank has admitted 
responsibility is unacceptable.
Lloyds has agreed to pay £150 for the upset caused. As I said above, I dont think Lloyds 
made an error that caused financial loss.
2. The fact that the Banks poor practice (as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority) in 
not contacting us in advance of the end of the term with details of options and products, 
including Product Transfer is unacceptable.
As I said above, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs T reminding them about the term expiry. It 
didnt have to offer new products or set out details of possible options.
3. The Complaint Managers recognition of our need to seek advice about other options but 
failure to go on to agree (or to recommend that the End of Term team agree) to our 
request for sufficient time to do so is unacceptable.Lloyds put holds on recovery action throughout 2022 and into 2023 to allow Mr and 
Mrs T time to seek advice, which I think was fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Lloyds Bank PLC to pay £150 to Mr and 
Mrs T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman