DRN-2970688
The complaint
Mr P complained that Metro Bank PLC completed the wrong form when he wanted to 
reinvest his cash ISA money into a new fixed rate ISA, leading to a delay. He also thought 
theyd taken too long to address his subsequent complaint.
What happened
Mr P held a fixed rate ISA with Metro. The rate was due to mature on 16 December 2019. 
So, Metro emailed Mr P on 5 November 2019 to remind him that his existing rate was due to 
mature. Having not received a response from Mr P, Metro emailed him again on 1 December 
2019. They said that if they didnt hear from him, his account would revert to an instant 
access cash ISA with a variable rate of interest.
On 1 October 2020, Mr P visited one of Metros stores. He wanted to reinvest his ISA money 
held with them into a new fixed rate ISA. They gave him a form to do this. But the form they 
provided was the wrong one so they couldnt open the new fixed rate ISA requested.
Metro wrote to Mr P to explain their mistake. They enclosed the correct form so that a new 
fixed rate ISA could be opened as Mr P had requested. The new fixed rate ISA was opened 
on 9 October 2020.
Mr P wasnt happy that Metro had made a mistake. He thought they shouldve done better 
and that their store staff werent properly trained. So, he complained to Metro. He was also 
unhappy with problems experienced by another party in relation to their ISA account. Metro 
received Mr Ps complaint on 14 October 2020.
Metro looked into Mr Ps complaint. They agreed that theyd been a delay in reinvesting Mr 
Ps ISA money due to the wrong forms being completed with one of their store colleagues. 
They apologised in a letter dated 23 October 2020 and sent a cheque for £40 to 
acknowledge the inconvenience caused.
Mr P wasnt happy with Metros response. He didnt think that the amount awarded reflected 
the distress and inconvenience caused. He also remained unhappy with the way in which 
Metro had handled another persons ISA problems with them. So, he decided to refer his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. She didnt think 
that Metro needed to take any more action. She also pointed out to Mr P that this service 
couldnt consider complaints relating to another party without their written consent.
Mr P wasnt happy with our investigators findings. So, he asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps complaint appears to cover a number of areas. Much of these overlap between his 
own more recent experience and that of another party.
I should stress at the outset that this service can only consider complaints from an eligible 
complainant, as defined in the dispute rules (DISP) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook. This is defined in DISP 2.7. 
In Mr Ps case, I can only consider a complaint in relation to his own experience as a 
customer of Metro and any products or services in his own name. Any complaint in relation 
to products or services held by another party would require the written consent of that party, 
regardless of whether Mr P had been involved in any discussions with Metro. Equally, any 
complaint to Metro relating to another party would need to be brought by the individual 
concerned. Mr P wouldnt be able to raise a complaint without that partys written authority to 
do so.
So, my decision will only be based on Mr Ps complaint in relation to the product held by him 
and the service received by him from Metro.
Metro have explained to this service why they have different forms to enable money to be 
moved into a new fixed rate ISA, dependent upon the circumstances. This is their process 
and not one that this service would look to question. My role is to decide whether Metros 
processes were applied in a fair and reasonable way in Mr Ps situation.
Metro have agreed that their store colleague did complete the wrong form with Mr P. So, this 
aspect is not in question. Clearly this was unfortunate as it ultimately led to some 
inconvenience for Mr P. It appears Metro took steps to try to resolve the problem as quickly 
as possible. I understand they tried to telephone Mr P but were unsuccessful. So, they wrote 
to him, explaining the problem and provided the correct form. 
Mr Ps new fixed rate ISA account was opened by Metro on 9 October 2020. So, its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P did receive their letter and completed and returned the 
correct form. Despite the unfortunate circumstances, I believe that Metro tried everything 
they could to resolve the mistake as quickly and painlessly as possible.
But Mr P remained unhappy with Metros actions. Its seems Mr Ps response and complaint 
was influenced by the experiences of another party. But, as Ive explained, I can only 
consider the circumstances of Mr Ps experience in isolation.
Metro have shown they received Mr Ps complaint on 14 October 2020. They investigated 
what had happened. They then attempted to call Mr P on 21 and 22 October 2020 to discuss 
his experience. Unfortunately, both of these calls were unsuccessful. So, they wrote to Mr P 
on 23 October 2020, accepted their mistake, apologised and included a cheque for £40 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. I think this was appropriate in the circumstances.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. In Mr Ps case, I feel that the amount paid by Metro is reasonable 
given the circumstances. He did experience some inconvenience, but Metro acted to put 
things right within a reasonable timescale. 
Im also aware that Mr P feels that Metro were slow in responding to his complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr P will be disappointed, but I cant agree. The timeline from Mr Ps 
complaint to Metros response is in line with what I would expect to see here. So, overall, I 
agree with our investigator here and will not be asking Metro to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman