DRN-4381890
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding her liable for the money she lost to 
a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In August 2021, Miss M was on holiday abroad when she received a call from a number that 
appeared to be Barclays. She had a bad connection, so they arranged to call her back later 
that afternoon. Unfortunately, it seems this was a scammer who impersonated Barclays and 
spoofed its number.
Miss M says she was told that transactions were happening on her card from a UK location. 
She checked her app and told the scammer she couldnt see any unexpected transactions. 
They said that was because their fraud systems pick up attempted payments before they 
show on the account.
Miss M says, in addition to the number spoofing, the caller knew details about her such as 
her mothers maiden name. She says they also told her they would pay her £250 for staying 
on the line. And at one point, she saw what appeared to be £75 credited into her account.
Thinking she was speaking to her bank, Miss M admits providing codes to the scammer  
including PINsentry codes, which would have allowed them access to her account. They 
told her there was a virus on her app, so they needed to transfer her funds to check whether 
it was working  but said they would pay the money back into her savings. It seems Miss M 
therefore provided the scammer with OTP codes to authorise payments out of her account.
Miss M says the scammers, posing as the bank, told her they would call her back the next 
day. But she didnt receive a further call from them. She then spoke to her mum and realised 
she had been scammed. She called Barclays to report this and found out £72,990 had been 
transferred out of her account, partly funded by a £23,000 loan. I understand the timeline for 
this is as follows:
Date Time Event Amount Main source
27/08/2021 16.38.57 Bank transfer to 'Mr M' £24,990 Savings
27/08/2021 16.54.52 Bank transfer to 'Company One' £24,000 Savings
27/08/2021 17.03.37 Loan application £23,000 n/a
28/08/2021 09.32.01 Bank transfer to Company One £10,000 Loan
28/08/2021 09.46.26 Bank transfer to 'Company Two' £14,000 Loan and savings
Unhappy that Barclays was holding her liable for the payments and the loan, Miss M 
complained. But it didnt agree to refund her or to write off the loan. It did offer her £75 
compensation  which it later increased by £100 (so £175 in total) - for service failings while 
considering her fraud claim. Miss M didnt agree so referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the case should be considered in 
line with the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code  
which requires firms to reimburse customers who fall victim to authorised push payment 
(APP) scams unless they can show an exception applies under the code. But she thought an 
exception did apply, as she didnt think Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing the 
person she was speaking to was legitimate.
Miss M appealed the investigators view, so the case was referred for a final decision. Since 
then, I have received further information  which I have shared with Barclays  regarding the 
accounts the funds went sent to. The recipient bank confirmed the account names these 
show as being sent to (one appeared to share Miss Ms surname, and the other two 
appeared to be businesses local to her home address) were false. It has since closed the 
accounts due to fraud concerns.
I also requested further information from Barclays, such as further audit information relating 
to the loan application, and a clearer explanation of the account use at the time of the scam, 
in June 2023. I subsequently escalated my request. Barclays didnt responded.
In accordance with the rules set out in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook, specifically DISP Rule 3.5.9(3) and DISP Rule 3.5.14(1), I proceeded to issue a 
provisional decision based on the information I held in September 2023  taking into account 
Barclayss failure to provide the information I requested.
I explained I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Barclays to refund some, but not 
all, of Miss Ms loss for the following reasons:
Authorisation
There were a couple of calls made to Barclays as part of the process to authorise 
these payments. It seems these calls werent made by Miss M, but by someone 
impersonating her. However, Miss M admits that, during the scam call, she shared 
codes with the scammer. And it also seems she was aware, and understood, that 
payments were being made. Its just that she thought she was acting on the 
instructions of her bank, who would refund her afterwards.
Miss M has also provided a screenshot of a text exchange from Barclays, asking her 
to reply Y if she made the payment to Mr M, or N if it was fraud. She replied Y. 
Which further suggests she was aware of, and agreed to, the payments.
While Miss M may not have completed all the steps to make the payments, I do think 
she was aware that payments were being taken  and was completing some steps to 
allow that to happen, or to grant the person she was speaking to authority to make 
the payments. I therefore consider the payments on 27 August 2021 to be 
authorised.
But based on the available evidence, I also think Miss M was the victim of an APP 
scam. There has been consistent testimony from her throughout about having been 
tricked, and shes shown us records of the calls she received from the spoofed 
Barclays number.While I understand why Barclays was initially concerned about the payment 
destinations, I think the information from the recipient bank offers more reassurance 
that the recipients werent actually linked to Miss M. Ive pointed this out to Barclays  
and it hasnt responded to raise anything further regarding this. So, as things stand, I 
think the payments rightly fall under the scope of the CRM code.
However, Miss M maintains she didnt receive the call back she was expecting the 
following day. And, having listened to the call Barclays received in relation to the 
£10,000 payment, I dont think it was made by Miss M. Nor  so far as Ive been 
made aware  was it made from Miss Ms number. Its also not clear to me what 
location the call was made from.
A code was sent to Miss Ms phone during this call  which the scammer provided to 
Barclays for security. Its not clear to me how the scammer got hold of this code. 
Miss M is adamant she didnt share any security information or download anything to 
allow access to her devices. And shes also consistently maintained that she didnt 
speak to the scammers on this date. So, unlike the payments on the first day, it 
doesnt fit that she was handing them over to the scammer with the intention of 
allowing payments to be made.
While I dont know how the scammer got hold of this code, bearing in mind the lack of 
clear information I have about the devices used, Im minded to conclude these 
payments werent authorised by Miss M.
During the call there is mention of unusual software being detected on a device 
being used to access the account  seemingly via online banking rather than mobile 
banking. But this raises concern about unauthorised access to the account. Although 
Miss M doesnt recall downloading anything to grant access to any device, its 
possible she may have been tricked into doing so inadvertently. Or that the scammer 
was able to use the codes she shared to set up online banking on another device 
which they had control of.
Without knowing exactly how the scammer got hold of the code, and in the absence 
of further evidence which I requested from Barclays to help clarify this point (and 
other points), Im not persuaded Miss M likely shared it for the purpose of authorising 
a payment. And I havent seen any indication that a further code was sent for the 
payment to Company Two. 
I also dont think, in the circumstances, Miss M acted with gross negligence in failing 
to keep her security details safe. As anything she did share, was shared with who 
she thought was her bank. While (as Ill expand on below) I do think there was some 
negligence on Miss Ms part, Im not persuaded it amounts to gross negligence. This 
is also in the context of her being put under pressure, with the scammer using social 
engineering to influence her actions during the call the previous day. And again, Id 
reiterate that I havent received information which Ive requested from Barclays, in 
order to consider the circumstances of the payment further.
Im therefore minded to conclude the payments on 28 August 2021 were 
unauthorised, and that Barclays is liable for them.
CRM code
As our investigator explained, the starting position under the code is that banks 
should refund victims of APP scams unless an exception applies. She thought the 
relevant exception that applied here was:The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business 
with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered this point, I agree with the investigator that this exception 
does apply. I appreciate that the scam involved some sophisticated techniques, such 
as spoofing and social engineering. But Miss M has also told us she was suspicious 
of the call. And that is further supported by the records she has sent us, showing she 
was taking screenshots of the calls whilst still speaking to the scammers.
Despite this, she repeatedly shared codes with the caller  which were sent with 
warnings about the importance of not sharing codes, and provided specific details for 
at least one of the payments. She also appears to have missed that she was sent a 
text from Barclays saying that a loan had been applied for, and to get in touch if this 
wasnt her.
The circumstances of her being told she would be paid if she stayed on the line also 
sound unusual. While I appreciate Miss M says she appeared to have received a 
payment during the call, the amount she says this showed didnt match the amount 
she says she was told she would be paid. And it doesnt sound particularly credible 
that a bank would be offering her money to stay on the line.
Taking this altogether, I dont think Miss M did have a reasonable basis for believing 
the caller. While that means I dont think Barclays is obliged to refund her in full, Ive 
also thought about Barclay obligations under the code.
In response to the first payment, Barclays did identify a risk; it stopped the payment 
pending a conversation with Miss M. But it seems the scammer was able to pre-empt 
this by calling Barclays. And it verified the caller by sending a code to her registered 
device, which the scammer was able to provide. In the context of what Miss M has 
told us, I understand this was likely due to her sharing the code with the caller. The 
caller was also able to correctly answer a security question relating to Miss Ms 
personal details.
The scammer was therefore able to provide assurances over the phone about the 
payment, such that Barclays was happy to proceed once Miss M responded to its 
text asking her to confirm the payment.
In the circumstances, I cant see what else Barclays ought reasonably to have done 
that would have had a material bearing on her loss. It wasnt put in a position where it 
could have taken reasonable steps to deliver an effective warning that Miss M would 
have seen. 
Miss M shared the code she was sent, meaning the scammer was able to speak to 
Barclays about the payments. Furthermore, she shared PINsentry codes which (from 
what weve been told) allowed the scammer access to make the payments on Miss 
Ms behalf under false pretences. So Barclays wasnt in a position to deliver an 
effective warning to her which Miss M she could have acted on.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to expect Barclays to refund her for these 
payments, in line with its expectations under the CRM code.The loan
Miss M maintains that she didnt apply for this loan. Barclays says it was applied for 
using her IP address from a genuine device. But it hasnt responded to my request 
for clear evidence of this.
As things stand, taking account of Barclays failure to provide the information Ive 
asked for, I consider it likely the loan was unauthorised. Miss M has consistently 
denied applying for it. As she shared PINsentry codes, we also have a plausible 
explanation for how someone else had access to her online banking and make the 
application  without having her permission to do so.
In line with what Ive explained above, Im also satisfied the funds were moved on 
from the account without Miss Ms authorisation.
In the circumstances, I therefore dont think Miss M should be held liable for the 
terms of the loan contract, as I dont believe she consented to them. And as I dont 
think she knowingly passed on the funds, I dont consider it fair for Barclays to pursue 
her for the capital either. That is another reason why I wouldnt consider it fair for 
Barclays to hold her liable for the payments made on 28 August 2021  as they were 
predominantly funded by the loan.
Compensation
Barclays has offered a total of £175 compensation for how it handled Miss Ms fraud 
claim. Bearing in mind the main cause of Miss Ms upset is the actions of the 
scammer, Im satisfied that fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Barclays service failings. Such as the time taken to respond, and the lack of clarity it 
gave initially about whether the loan had been drawn down.
I invited both parties to submit any further comments or evidence in response. Barclays 
responded to accept my provisional decision, but Miss M didnt agree. In summary, she said 
that  while she understands that the more codes shared, the less reasonable the basis for 
belief  it was reasonable to share the first code, for the payment of £24,990. 
Miss M also said there was a failing by Barclays, as it didnt proactively reach out and 
instead allowed the scammer to call in. And she doesnt think that was sufficient. Particularly 
bearing in mind that the number called from wouldnt have been her genuine number. 
I had also asked Miss M to clarify a few points, bearing in mind Barclays had the opportunity 
to provide further information following my provisional decision (although it has opted not to). 
She confirmed the following: so far as she can recall, she didnt any suspicious calls or texts 
etc. prior to the scam call; she didnt receive a call on the morning of 28 August 2021; she 
mainly uses her Barclays app on her phone to access the account, and while she has 
access on her laptop she rarely uses it; she saw the £75 compensation payment on her app; 
and there was no use of remote access on her phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, including considering Miss Ms response, Ive come to the same outcome 
as I did in my provisional decision  and largely for the same reasons, which are set out 
above and form part of my final decision. So Ill focus here on responding to the further 
points Miss M has raised.
First, Ive considered Miss Ms argument for why she feels she had a reasonable basis of 
belief when making the first payment. But, in line with the considerations of the CRM code, 
Im not persuaded she did.
As set out in the table above, the first payment went through at 16.38. Miss M has provided 
search results from her phone showing she looked up the number, in connection to it being a 
scam, at 16.39 and 16.40. To me, that suggests she did have concerns at the time of the 
first payment  which matches what she has told us about being suspicious of the call. She 
was also taking screenshots throughout the call, which again suggests to me she had 
concerns. 
Miss M had already received several messages and codes by this point. The first, which 
appears to have been sent at 16.26, explained that Miss M would receive a text to confirm a 
payment made via online banking. It warned that, if she had been called and asked to 
transfer money to a secure of secure account, to stop as this was a scam. Yet she 
responded to the message, sent separately, to confirm she had requested it. 
Following this, Miss M was sent a message saying she had called, and Barclays had 
provided a one time passcode, contained in the message, which she had requested. It said 
to contact Barclays if she hadnt requested it (which she hadnt). She then seemingly shared 
the code with the scammer. This is seemingly in addition to what she has told us about 
sharing PINsentry codes. 
This was all done in the course of making the first payment. In the circumstances, including 
the timings and sharing of codes set out above, but also the wider points I set out in my 
provisional decision, Im not satisfied Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing the caller 
was legitimate. For example, Im not persuaded the explanation that she needed to send 
these funds to test the app due to a virus, but would later be refunded, sounded plausible. 
I think Miss M had cause to take further steps to confirm the caller before handing over the 
codes. Which were compounded by what happened later on, when she received the text 
about the loan that was taken out. I therefore consider that Barclays has fairly applied the 
exception under the CRM code due to Miss M not having a reasonable basis for belief. 
I have also reconsidered whether Barclays did enough in light of Miss Ms rebuttal. And I am 
mindful that one of the queries I asked Barclays, which it didnt respond to, was about the 
phone the impersonation calls were received from.
However, there are many legitimate reasons why someone might contact their bank from a 
different number to the one they have registered with their bank. Given the details the 
scammer knew about Miss M  including that she was abroad  I dont think this in itself 
gave Barclays much cause for concern. 
Furthermore, as explained in my provisional decision, Barclays didnt just rely on an 
incoming call from what may have shown as a different/unrecognised number. It sent Miss M 
a text to her registered device during the call, which the scammer provided to Barclays. This 
was in addition to Miss M responding to a text to confirm the payment, and security 
questions it asked to verify who it was speaking.I therefore dont think Barclays was put in a position where it should reasonably have taken 
further steps to effectively warn Miss M about the scam risk. And this was due to her 
responding to messages to verify the payment, as well as sharing codes with the scammer  
which, as Ive explained, Im not satisfied she did with a reasonable basis for believing the 
caller. In those circumstances, I therefore dont consider it fair to direct Barclays to reimburse 
her under the terms of the CRM code. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss M. But, when looking at Barclays liability here, 
Im not persuaded its fair to direct it to refund her for the authorised payments. However, as 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont think she should fairly be held liable for the loan 
or the subsequent unauthorised payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to: 
Remove any information reported to the credit reference agencies about the loan 
taken out in Miss Ms name, and stop pursuing her for this debt.
My understanding is that Miss M hasnt made any payments towards the loan. But if 
she has, those should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund her £1,000 for the unauthorised payments funded from her own money rather 
than the loan. As I understand these originated from her savings account, Barclays 
should pay the savings account interest rate on this amount, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss M accepts my decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman