DRN-4066313
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as H, complains about the decision of Markel 
International Insurance Company Limited to decline its business interruption insurance 
claim, made as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Miss K, as a director of H, has brought this complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
H operates as a care home and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy with  
Markel.
In March 2021, H contacted Markel to claim for loss of income as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. H says that it was due to take on two new service users from secure settings at 
the time of the first Government imposed lockdown in March 2020 and as a result of the 
Government restrictions imposed the service users transfer to H were delayed. H says it had 
employed teams of staff to look after each of the two service users and had to pay them for 
the entire period of delay, which meant it suffered a financial loss of just under £130,000.
Markel declined the claim, as it said the policy covers loss of income as a result of access to 
the business premises being prevented or hindered by the Government or public authority 
but that this had not happened here. Markel said care homes had been allowed to stay open 
during the lockdown. Markel also said there was no restriction on the movement of service 
users between settings but in any event, even if there were, this would be a restriction on the 
movement of people and not a restriction of access to the premises. Markel didnt think the 
delay in transferring the service users to Hs facilities was covered.  
H complained about this. It said that while care homes were not mandated to close, there 
were restrictions imposed on the movement of service users, other than in elderly care. It 
provides care for adults but not elderly care. There were restrictions on two of its premises 
and the two service users were to be transferred from secure settings to residential homes 
and the March 2020 restrictions restricted the movement of service users. 
It suffered interruption to its business as a result of the pandemic through no fault of its own 
and so does not understand why there is no cover. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
he thought that Markel was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it did. He said there 
was no evidence of any prohibition on the movement of service users and no evidence of a 
restriction on Hs premises that would prevent or hinder access. 
H does not accept the Investigators assessment. It provided a copy of the minutes of a 
meeting between various agencies involved in the care of the service users in question, 
which it said established that movement of service users had been prohibited; and a copy of 
an email confirming that a move to H had been cancelled.  The Investigator didnt think these 
established cover under the policy. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had 
such an impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which 
might happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each 
policy may provide different cover.
I have considered Hs entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the 
policy provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the parts of that section of cover that both 
parties considered potentially relevant to Hs claim, which covers prevention of access.
This part of the policy says that it will cover business interruption losses as a result of:
Prevention of access
Access to or use of the Premises being prevented or hindered by 
(b) any action of Government Police or Local Authority due to an emergency which 
could endanger human life or neighbouring property.
Whilst many businesses in England were closed by the restrictions introduced by the 
Government in March 2020, care homes were not. From the evidence I have seen, they 
were allowed to continue to provide care to existing residents and also to admit new 
residents. The Government did issue guidance on the admission of new residents, including 
Admission and care of residents in a care home during COVID-19, originally published in 
April 2020. But it is clear from this publication that care homes were able to continue to admit 
new residents and I cant see anything that suggest the guidance did not apply to non-elderly 
service users. 
In addition, H said that the placements were meant to start on 3 March and 7 March 2020 
respectively and one was delayed for two weeks and one for three months (so was 
transferred to H in June 2020). So the delay appears to have started before the Government 
announced any restrictions and before The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020 were put in place. 
Given the above, I do not consider it has been established that H was prevented from taking 
the new service users as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020. 
I have also considered whether there was any other local authority restriction placed on H 
that would have prevented or hindered use or access to its premises. 
H has not provided any order or direction from its local authority. It has provided redacted 
minutes of a meeting that took place at the end March 2020, in which it has highlighted the 
following: stated that this would be delayed until the Covid-19 restrictions have been 
lifted. H says this shows that the Clinical Psychologist for the local community health care 
authority advised that the movement of service users would be put on hold until the Covid19 
restrictions were lifted. However, even if the local authority decided to delay movement of individuals between 
different facilities, I am not persuaded that this was an action that hindered or prevented 
access or use of Hs premises. It may have been an action that restricted the movement of 
the service users themselves but was not in my view an action that prevented or hindered 
access or use of Hs premises, as required by the policy. 
Theres no persuasive evidence that H could not have received the service users at its 
premises, and it has confirmed its losses come from the fact it was ready to receive them, 
rather it was a decision made by others involved that the individuals concerned would not be 
moved.  
Whilst the reasons for such a decision are understandable, the question I need to determine 
is whether this was an insured event. For the reasons given above, I do not think it is and so 
do not think Markel acted unfairly in refusing cover under this section of the policy.  
The policy also covers losses following a manifestation of human infectious or contagious 
disease at the property but H has not suggested that there was any such case. There is no 
other part of the business interruption section of the policy which I think provides cover in the 
circumstances either. 
While I appreciate that H has suffered losses through no fault of its own, they are not 
covered under this insurance policy with Markel. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman