DRN-1569684
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received under his Gas Central Heating Breakdown 
Cover from Aviva Insurance Limited (administered by HomeServe).
What happened
Mr M first reported a problem with the boiler in June 2018. At that time the policy was 
underwritten by a different insurer. An engineer changed some parts on the boiler but the 
problems continued. Mr M says there was a rattling noise which got louder.
Between then and early to mid 2019 there were several visits from engineers who were 
unable to identify or fix the problem. Mr M says the noise from the rattle was so bad he 
turned the boiler off. Also, he says his heating bills were more expensive. 
In April 2019 the issue was fixed. Mr M was unhappy with the time it had taken so 
complained. Aviva apologised and paid Mr M £150 for what happened. Mr M didn't think this 
was enough so brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
things and overall thought the £150 was fair for what happened. Mr M disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no doubt there was a problem with boiler. I've also no doubt this caused Mr M and 
his wife a lot of trouble, especially during the winter time. But what I need to decide upon is 
not whether there was a problem with the boiler, and I think there was, but how Aviva acted 
when trying to diagnose and fix the problem.
Previous to October 2018 the policy was underwritten by a different insurer. This means I 
can only consider what happened after that date. However looking at what happened I don't 
think this changes the outcome.
When the engineers inspected the boiler on multiple occasions in late 2018 and early 
2019 they were unable to find a fault or hear the rattling noise Mr M said was happening. 
This made diagnosing the problem difficult. In April 2019 Mr M left the heating on before the 
engineer visited so that he could hear the noise. Having heard the noise the engineer 
diagnosed the problem and ordered a replacement part. There was a problem with the part 
so the repair took longer than it should have.
Whilst the problem was ongoing for some time I'm satisfied the engineers did their best to 
diagnose what was wrong. On each visit the engineers were unable to see or hear the 
problem. That's not to say there wasn't a problem, there was, but without being able to 
replicate the problem I'm satisfied the engineers provided the level of service I would 
expect under the policy.Mr M says that his gas and electricity bills increased while the problems were happening. 
Looking at the bills there was a debit balance being carried forward each month from 
when the problems started. The monthly payment at that time mostly covered the monthly 
usage, but wasn't reducing the outstanding debit balance. To repay the outstanding 
balance the monthly payment was increased. The monthly payment did go up during the 
time of the problem but I'm not persuaded this was because of the anything to do with the 
boiler. 
Aviva has already made a payment  of £150 to settle this compliant. I'm satisfied this a 
fair and reasonable amount for what happened, so I won't be asking them to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman