DRN-4215667
The complaint
Mr A has complained about a repair carried out under his appliance insurance policy with 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D & G). 
What happened
Mr A held an insurance protection policy for his oven starting on 28 July 2022. On 17 
September 2022, Mr A made a claim under his policy, as his oven was faulty. He said it 
would turn itself off. 
D & G accepted the claim. A contractor attended and having looked at the oven, ordered 
some parts. He returned and replaced the PCB and a door hinge. The repair was completed 
on 5 October 2022.
Mr A cancelled the policy on 22 October 2022. 
Mr A then contacted D & G again on 23 November 2022, as he said the PCB was faulty and 
the oven was not working. He wanted D & G to reattend and repair the oven. Mr A said the 
original fault was a problem with the oven door and the contractor said he may as well 
replace the PCB while he was there, as they often go wrong on this oven. Mr A says it had 
not been faulty before and was only faulty after it was replaced. 
D & G refused to attend to look at the oven, as it said there was no policy in place. It said the 
contractor had assessed that the PCB needed to be replaced in October 2022. It would 
return within 30 days of a repair, but Mr A had contacted it more than 30 days after the repair 
was completed. D & G said the PCB was guaranteed for a year, so Mr A could contact the 
contractor to claim under the guarantee, if the replacement PCB was faulty. 
MA is very unhappy about this. He said he and his family, which includes four children, have 
been without an oven for months. The PCB was fitted by D & Gs agents and he should have 
been able to rely on this having been done properly and the repair lasting a reasonable time. 
A month is not a reasonable time. Mr A wants the oven repaired and compensation. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she thought D & G had fulfilled its obligations under the policy and was not 
required to attend again. 
Mr A does not accept that Investigators assessment. He says D & G is responsible for the 
actions of tits agents and the repair was not carried out to the appropriate standard while the 
policy was in place. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy provides cover for mechanical or electrical breakdown, after the end of the 
original manufacturers warranty, and accidental damage. 
The fault Mr A reported in September 2022 was that the oven was shutting itself off and 
displaying an error code. He says this had nothing to do with the PCB and it didnt need 
replacing but the contractor said he would do so while he was there. So Mr A suggests the 
contractor caused the current issue. There is no convincing evidence the problem in 
September 2022 was simply the door hinge. D & G says it was determined the PCB needed 
to be replaced and it seems unlikely to me that the contractor would have replaced the PCB 
unless it was necessary. 
Mr A reported around six weeks later that the over was faulty again. Mr A is correct, that D & 
G had an obligation to make sure the repairs that are carried out under the policy are done 
so to an acceptable standard and that they should last a reasonable time. However, there is 
no persuasive evidence that the repair was not carried out properly at the time. The oven is 
faulty again. Mr A says it is the PCB that is faulty but there is no independent evidence that 
this is the case. And there is no evidence (even if it is the PCB) that this is due to anything 
that the contractor acting under the policy in October 2022 did wrong. There is also no cover 
in force for any new claims. 
The PCB apparently came with a years guarantee and D & G has provide the details for Mr 
A to be able to contact the contractors that fitted it. So if the PCB has a manufacturing defect 
then Mr A can claim under the manufacturers guarantee. I think that is reasonable in all the 
circumstances and am not persuaded that D & G needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman