DRN-1046682
 
The complaint
Miss L complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Miss L was given three loans by Lending Stream in April and May 2018. Each of the loans 
was scheduled to be repaid in six monthly instalments. Miss L repaid her first two loans far 
earlier than planned. But she faced some problems repaying her final loan. A summary of 
Miss L's borrowing from Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/04/2018 £  400
2 25/04/2018 £  400
3 17/05/2018 £  500
Miss L's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didn't think Lending 
Stream had been wrong to give any of the loans to Miss L. So she didn't recommend that the 
complaint be upheld.
Miss L didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
The repayments that Miss L agreed to make were small compared to the income she 
declared to Lending Stream. And they appeared to be easily affordable based on what she 
said about her disposable income. So given the amounts that Miss L needed to repay, what 
was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her lending history with the lender, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask her for the amount of 
information that might have shown the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasn't anything in the information Miss L provided or the information Lending 
Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying.  
I have considered the way in which Miss L used these loans. She repaid her first two loans 
after just a few days. And then she borrowed a similar amount almost immediately 
afterwards. I think that should have caused some concerns to the lender. But on balance I 
don't think those concerns would have been great enough to mean that they should have led 
to additional checks being needed.
I think that the checks Lending Stream did were proportionate, and they suggested that Miss 
L could afford the repayments on the loans. So I dont think Lending Stream did anything 
wrong in agreeing to give these loans to Miss L. It follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Gain Credit LLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman