DRN-2984369
The complaint
Mr E complains about how Metro Bank PLC dealt with a request to block access to his joint 
account.
What happened
Mr E says he had a joint account with his ex- partner and asked Metro to place a block on 
the account to prevent unauthorised withdrawals. He says he asked Metro to restrict the 
account on 18 February 2021 and he told his ex-partner that, but she was later able to 
withdraw the money in the account which was just under £10,000. Mr E says he was given 
conflicting information about what took place and says he name was removed from the 
account. He says although the money was returned, the compensation offer by Metro 
doesnt go far enough and he incurred legal costs as a result.
Metro says it told Mr E an account block may take up to 24 hours to apply but accepts it told 
him it is likely it would applied sooner than that. It also accepts the block was placed after the 
24-hour period but says the money had been withdrawn the previous day. Metro says Mr Es 
name wasnt removed from the account and he wasnt restricted from using is or accessing it 
but accept it could have dealt with the problem more appropriately and has offered £225 
compensation. It says the money was returned to the joint account on 4 March 2021.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
appropriate. The investigator thought Mr E had been told the account block would take up to 
24 hours to be applied and that he had told his ex-partner what he had done before that 
expiry. The investigator didnt think Mr Es name had been removed from the account and 
didnt think it fair to order Metro to pay the legal costs as it seems such costs would have 
been incurred in any event.
Me E doesnt accept that view and in summary says Metro shouldnt have allowed such a 
large withdrawal in the first place and maintains the legal costs followed that act. He says 
Metro didnt close the account as it should have and says he was told his name was 
removed from the account which could have disadvantaged him in his dispute with his ex-
partner. He also says he may have been the victim of fraud and would like evidence from 
Metro about his name being removed from the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Metro has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr E will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate 
how strongly he feels about what took place. I also appreciate his concern in finding out his 
ex-partner had withdrawn the money from the joint account.
Im satisfied that Metro told Mr E that it may take up to 24 hours to restrict account access. 
But I also accept that Metro took longer than that to apply it and in any event Mr Es ex-
partner had already withdrawn the money. So, I dont think that delay had any significant 
impact. Im also satisfied that Metro has apologised for that mistake and for how it dealt with 
parts of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr E questions why his ex-partner was able to withdraw the money in the first 
place. But Im satisfied this was a joint account and either party to it was entitled to withdraw 
any amount of money. It follows that I dont think Metro made a mistake in approving the 
withdrawal and was under no duty to tell the other party to the account what had happened.
Im satisfied that Mr E did receive the money back within about just over two weeks. I 
appreciate Mr E says he incurred about £2,000 to £2,500 in legal costs but I think it likely 
such costs would have been incurred in any event as a result of the overall dispute between 
the parties. I dont think Mr E has provided any evidence from his solicitor about the terms of 
engagement and the work carried out by the solicitor. And or if the work it was limited to the 
one issue of the unauthorised withdrawal from the joint account.
I appreciate Mr E says his name was removed from the account during this time. I have 
looked at Metros records and I cant see any evidence of that. In any event Im satisfied 
Metro has now told Mr E that he wasnt removed from the account and I have not seen any 
evidence about how this had any real impact on him. I also appreciate Mr E says Metro 
didnt close the account correctly and complains he may have been the victim of fraud. I 
make clear to Mr E that he will need to make a complaint to Metro about both issues as it 
hasnt investigated either and that it likely that a complaint would need to be made to the 
police about the fraud allegation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr E received his money back within a relatively short time period. 
Im satisfied that although Metro didnt deal with parts of the complaint as it should, it has 
offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £225. It is not clear if Metro has paid 
any compensation and as I appreciate that Mr E may not wish to accept it, will leave that to 
him to decide, as I can see he is considering alternative action.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £225. Mr Es acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman