DRN-2922291
The complaint
Mr G says Oplo PL Ltd, trading as 1st Stop Personal Loans, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out a 36-month instalment loan from Oplo on 10 October 2018. It was for £4,000 
and the monthly repayments were £175.12. The total repayable was £6,304.32.
Mr G says Oplo did not complete adequate checks before lending to him. This and other 
lending has left him financially broken, and impacted his mental health.
Our investigator said Oplo was not wrong to lend to Mr G. Whilst its checks were not 
proportionate he had not seen any evidence that better checks ought to have led to a 
different lending decision.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Oplo lent to Mr G required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Oplo had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr G. In
other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Oplo did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr G. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Oplo make a fair lending decision?
- did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Oplo asked for certain information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and expenses. It used a third-party income verification service and 
national statistics to check his declarations. It also checked his credit file to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. As his mortgage didnt appear on 
this it asked for a mortgage statement. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was 
home improvements. From these checks combined Oplo concluded the loan was affordable 
for Mr G and would leave him with £1,271.33 of monthly disposable income.
Im not persuaded Oplos checks were proportionate given the initial results. I say this as 
they showed Mr G was already spending around a third of his income on consumer credit 
and was almost at his limit on his credit cards. As Mr G was borrowing a significant amount 
and would need to be able to make his repayments sustainably for 36 months I think it ought 
to have completed a fuller financial review. 
The investigator explained that to recreate what better checks might have shown he 
reviewed Mr Gs bank statements from the months prior to this application. But they did not 
show that the loan would most likely be unaffordable for Mr G. I agree with this assessment. 
I also noted that Mr G told Oplo on the application call that he used one of his credit cards 
for everyday living expenses. This means to carry out a fair affordability assessment I think 
Oplo also needed to understand how much he spent on credit each month for this type of 
expenditure. So I have also reviewed these statements but the level of non-discretionary 
spend is low and does not indicate the loan would most likely not be sustainably affordable.
 
Mr G has commented that it was clear his outgoings exceeded his income. And whilst I can 
see he was using multiple lines of credit, his accounts were all up-to-date and on his bank 
statements there were no indicators of financial distress such as a reliance on payday loans, 
any use of an overdraft or returned payments. I am sorry to hear Mr G went on to struggle 
financially, and how this impacted him, but for the reasons set out above I cant fairly find 
that Oplo should have made a different lending decision at the time of this loan.
It follows I dont think Oplo was wrong to lend to Mr G. I havent seen any evidence it acted 
unfairly or unreasonable towards Mr G in some other way.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman