DRN-2511576
The complaint
Mr M (and the estate of the late Mrs M) is represented by a claims management company 
(CMC) in bringing this complaint. The CMC says they were mis-sold a with profits 
endowment savings policy by an adviser from The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
in 1986.  
What happened
After a meeting at their home, Mr M and the late Mrs M were advised to invest in the 
endowment policy, with a total monthly contribution of £72.48. The policy had life cover and 
a guaranteed maturity value of £10,000 plus bonuses and an original end date of November 
2007. In 1992 the term of the policy was reduced by three years. As such, the policy 
matured in 2004. After calculating the final value including bonuses, Mr and Mrs M were paid 
£22,082.70.   
The CMC complained to the Prudential in November 2019. It said it had asked to see the 
Prudentials point of sale documents such as a fact find, financial report and a 
recommendation letter explaining why the adviser recommended this product, but the 
Prudential had said it no longer held those records. Because of this, it was entitled to rely on 
Mr Ms recollections, and on that basis the policy sold was unsuitable for him and Mrs M.  
Specifically, it said there was no requirement to sell them a policy containing life cover, 
because Mr Ms children from his previous marriage were aged 16 and 20 at the time of the 
first advice. He and Mrs M did not have a mortgage or any other dependants. As the policy 
was designed to mature at Mr Ms pension age, he would have been better suited to 
pensions advice. 
The CMC also clarified that Mr and Mrs M knew their endowment was subject to fluctuation 
in its performance and they were not complaining about that. What it submitted was that they 
shouldnt have received advice to take out an endowment savings policy in the first place as 
a more appropriate view would have been to provide Mr and Mrs M with pensions advice.  
The Prudential rejected the complaint in January 2020. It said though there was no record of 
a specific retirement, the policy was suitable as a vehicle for savings as it was guaranteed, 
held no risk and was therefore suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances..
The CMC referred Mr Ms complaint to this service. It said though the Prudential had 
suggested otherwise, there is no plausible reason why Mr and Mrs M would take out a 
savings policy with such an extended maturity date other than to provide a lump sum on 
retirement. A pension plan would have provided significant tax advantages to save for this 
purpose, yet this was ignored by the adviser in favour of an unsuitable policy. 
It also reiterated that the life cover provided by the policy was unnecessary, as Mr and Mrs 
M had similar incomes working for the same employer and didnt have any dependant 
children together. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and felt it should not succeed. He said he 
felt the policy was likely suitable for Mr and Mrs M as it met their savings needs and also 
provided them with additional life cover, had they needed to make a claim. He also noted the 
policy had made a sizeable return. All in all, he felt Mr and Mrs M had not been 
disadvantaged by the Prudentials recommendation. 
The CMC said Mr M disagreed. It asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. It 
also reiterated that it felt the Prudential ought to have given Mr and Mrs M advice about a 
private pension rather than the endowment savings policy. Even though their policy made a 
return of more than £7,000, it didnt exceed the Bank of England bond rates for the same 
period. Finally, it said even if our investigator did not believe it appropriate redress to 
compare a pension wrapper to the mis-sold endowment, a calculation could have been 
proposed against the bond rates instead.  
The Prudential had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that this complaint should 
not succeed. My reasons for that are summarised below.  
Investment advice became regulated under the Financial Services Act 1986 with effect from 
29 April 1988. Before this date, advisers didnt have to consider if a recommendation was 
suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, advisers had to advise with reasonable 
skill and care, ensuring he or she didnt make mis-statements and that material information 
(if relevant) was disclosed.  
I recognise that because of the passage of time, there is little available information from the 
time of the sale. However, the Prudential has been able to supply a policy application, policy 
literature, and some later correspondence from the policys maturity date. 
From this, I cannot say conclusively what advice was provided to Mr and Mrs M but 
nonetheless I believe that the suggestion to take out an endowment savings policy was a 
reasonable fit in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs M wishing to save funds for their 
retirement. I disagree that failing to provide pensions advice (as the CMC contends) meant 
that this policy was inherently unsuitable or, in the case of a pre-1988 sale, an unreasonable 
suggestion. Conversely, I believe that the advisers actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
The booklet about the policy supplied by the Prudential to Mr and Mrs M at the time 
explained the likely charges and possible returns depending on the performance of the 
investment. Im satisfied this met the requirement at the time to provide clear and relevant 
information about the product as a means to achieve long term savings. 
That the CMC is assessing the return from the investment now as a comparison to deposit 
based accounts or fixed rate bonds is done with the benefit of hindsight. Instead, I must look 
at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of the sale based on any available evidence 
from both parties.
Though it has contended Mr and Mrs M had no young dependants, Mr M did have two 
children, one of whom was in their teens. Holding life assurance for family protection is a 
prudent form of financial planning and the CMC has since confirmed to our investigator that 
he and Mrs M had no other life assurance provisions in place at the time the endowment policy was sold.  
The life assurance inclusion was a qualifying requirement, to ensure any gains arising from 
the policy were exempt from income tax. Mr and Mrs M were recorded as wanting to set up a 
savings vehicle for future life planning, and I do not believe the inclusion of a small 
proportion of life cover renders the whole of life policy unsuitable for that purpose.  
The regulatory obligations that advisers now have in respect of recommendations to which 
the CMC has referred (in recommending a private pension instead) were not in force at the 
time of the advice, and not revisited in the circumstances of amending the policys term in 
1992. Having regard to the duties of the adviser at the time of the sale, I do not agree that 
the Prudential mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs M merely because it was designed to align 
with Mr Ms anticipated retirement date. Nor do I believe the adviser failed to provide 
sufficient care or proficiency in providing information about the endowment policy to Mr and 
Mrs M. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I am unable to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman