DRN-4524232
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, sent her financial information 
to the wrong address.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 11 December 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 2 January 2024. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, sent her financial information 
to the wrong address.
What happened
In May 2023, Ms B contacted Halifax as she hadnt been receiving her bank account 
statements since the start of the year.
Ms B subsequently discovered that Halifax had transposed her house number and her
statements had gone to a different address and one where she had a connection to the
occupant. In addition, Ms B said a Halifax letter containing loose statements had been
opened and handed back by the occupant and, due to the connection, she found this very
distressing.
Ms B complained to Halifax and asked for an explanation. Halifax apologised and although
they accepted they had made an error, they couldnt be certain about what had happened. 
Halifax said they thought it was likely to be a technical issue caused by the address being 
incorrectly updated on their system following Ms Bs liaison with one of their departments in 
February 2023. Halifax corrected Ms Bs address and paid her £80 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms B was dissatisfied with Halifaxs response and complained to our service.
Our investigator didnt think £80 compensation was a fair reflection and said it should be 
increased to £150.
As Ms B remains dissatisfied this complaint has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that the compensation
award should be further increased to £500, and Ill explain how Ive come to this decision.
I should first explain that I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems,
procedures or processes. I say this because we arent the regulator of the financial services
industry.
Also, our service doesnt have the power to issue fines or penalties for breaches of personal 
data and as explained by our investigator Ms B has the option to refer this matter to the 
Information Commissioner's Office (ICO).
However, what we can do is consider each individual case and decide what should be done 
to put right any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. So, we 
can ask a business to pay a proportionate level of redress. Although assessing 
compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for non-
financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest.
While there hasnt been a financial loss here, its clear that Halifax have made an error
which has had a very serious impact on Ms B. Im persuaded by Ms Bs testimony that her
private and sensitive financial information has more likely than not been seen by other
people. Also, there is a high likelihood that information, which she is entitled to keep strictly
private, has been shared with people she has connections with.
I say this because, in addition to the occupants of the incorrect address receiving envelopes 
containing her statements, one of the occupants returned a Halifax envelope they had 
opened containing her loose statements.
So, I can fully understand Ms Bs considerable upset and distress here and Im persuaded 
that the impact has been more than just minimal, and an apology and £80 compensation is 
insufficient redress to remedy the mistake.
Im also persuaded that the impact here is lasting and, whilst I can understand businesses 
sometimes being unable to explain a mistake, Halifaxs uncertainty over how the error 
occurred adds to Ms Bs distress and loss of confidence.
So, having considered all of the information from both sides here, I think £500 is an amount 
which more fairly reflects the significant impact this had and continues to have on Ms B.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Ms B £500 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 2 January 2024.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out 
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for responding before the deadline.
Halifax said:
I can confirm the bank is happy to agree with the provisional Final Decision and pay Ms B 
an additional £420.00 to bring the total D&I to £500.00.
Ms B said she was confused by my following statement: Halifax said they thought it was likely to be a technical issue caused by the address being 
incorrectly updated on their system following Ms Bs liaison with one of their departments in 
February 2023.
Ms B clarified that her address was never discussed or checked and said: 
My address was obviously changed or updated after this event which the Halifax are saying 
was due to a technical issue. The fact remains I did not authorise a change of address but 
someone from Halifax changed or updated my address to the wrong address and in doing so 
breached my data protection.
So, thinking about everything again and, in light of the above comments, I further reviewed 
the file. 
I still think theres a lack of information and certainty over how the error occurred and I 
remain satisfied that this added to the impact on Ms B.
However, my view on the impact and compensation remains the same and, as no further 
arguments have been produced in response to my provisional decision, I adopt my 
provisional decision and reasons as my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Ms B £500 compensation less any 
amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman