DRN-3709881
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) when he called them to ask about transferring funds over the phone.
What happened
Mr L held a basic bank account with Nationwide.
A block was placed on Mr Ls account at the end of June 2022, and it was under notice to be 
closed on 27 August 2022. This was due to security concerns after Mr L reported high levels 
of fraudulent activity on his account.
At around 5pm on Friday 13 August 2022 Mr L called Nationwide. He asked to transfer the 
balance of his account to an account he held with another business. The adviser explained 
hed need to go into a branch to access the funds. Mr L said it was too late because the 
branch would be closed until Monday. He also explained that the complaints team had told 
him he could ask for an emergency transfer over the phone, and hed be using the money to 
buy food.
The adviser checked this, and came back to Mr L to say that they wouldnt be able to do an 
emergency transfer because the block on his account couldnt be removed to allow the 
transfer. He advised Mr L to visit the branch on Monday and take his money out there, but 
Mr L said he needed the money immediately. The adviser explained there was nothing 
further he could do.
Mr L asked to raise a complaint about what hed been told during the call. Nationwide 
responded to his complaint on 22 August 2022. They said making transfers over the phone 
is only offered under emergency circumstances. But as Mr L could only carry out 
transactions in the branch, they thought their adviser was correct to decline his request for 
the funds to be transferred as an emergency. They said theyd already explained this to Mr L 
when they responded to a previous complaint hed raised. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr L didnt 
agree. So his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I want to be clear that Im only considering Mr Ls complaint about the service he received 
during his call of 13 August 2022 here. He has also raised a complaint about Nationwides 
decision to apply the block and subsequent closure of the account which is being considered 
separately.
Mr Ls account with Nationwide doesnt generally allow telephone transfers to accounts with 
other businesses. The terms and conditions say telephone banking can only be used to 
make an internal transfer to another Nationwide current or savings account in your name. 
Mr L was aware of this when he made the call, as hed raised a complaint about it already.
Nationwide do allow telephone transfers in emergency circumstances, which Mr L was also 
aware of from his previous complaint. Mr L said he needed the money to buy food, so I think 
the adviser was correct to explore whether an emergency transfer would be an option. But 
Nationwide had also already explained to Mr L that they wouldnt be able to do an 
emergency transfer for him over the phone because his account was blocked, and that hed 
need to go into a branch to access the funds in the account. And when the adviser looked 
into Mr Ls account history, he correctly explained this position to him.
I appreciate that Mr Ls unhappy that the block was applied in the first place, which meant he 
could only access his funds in the branch. But as Ive mentioned, this is being considered in 
a separate complaint. Mr L would have known he wouldnt be able to make an emergency 
transfer over the phone, and could only access the funds in a branch, for around nine days 
before he made the call on 13 August 2022. So, I think if hed needed access to the funds as 
an emergency, hed had the opportunity to visit the branch to withdraw them before then.
I dont think the adviser Mr L spoke to in the call of 13 August 2022 gave Mr L any incorrect 
information about the position of his accounts or did anything wrong by saying he couldnt 
complete an emergency transfer. And I think its fair to say Mr L would have been aware of 
this before he made the call. Nationwide didnt make a mistake or treat Mr L unfairly here. So 
they dont need to do anything else to resolve Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman