DRN-1905427
The complaint
Miss M complains that MYJAR Limited lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
In July 2018, Miss M applied to MYJAR for a loan. The details are set out below. 
Loan No Date Taken Date closed Amount taken Repay Amount No of Instal
 1  5/7/2018  Outstanding  £1100  £85.90 24
Miss M says that when she applied for this borrowing, she had a number of payday loans 
outstanding. She also told us that she had taken out 35 payday loans over a two-year period 
with 14 lenders. She said she was borrowing more just to repay her debts. 
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. She said that Miss M had 
taken on a long term financial commitment with MYJAR and consequently, it should have 
undertaken a full review of her circumstances before agreeing to provide this loan. 
MYJAR disagreed with that view. It said it would not have been proportionate at that stage to 
undertake a full review of Miss Ms circumstances and believed its checks to be sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
I appreciate that this was the first loan Miss M had borrowed from MYJAR and that the 
lending relationship between the parties was in its infancy. Having said that, I do agree with 
our adjudicator that MYJAR should have undertaken a full review of Miss Ms financial 
circumstances. I say this because Miss M was entering into what I would consider to be a 
long term commitment with MYJAR for what was in effect two years. I think a full review of 
her financial circumstances would have been both appropriate and proportionate. 
Had that full review been undertaken, I think it would have been clear to MYJAR that Miss M 
could not sustainably repay this loan over the planned two years without borrowing further. 
MYJAR sensibly confirmed her income with a credit reference agency at approximately 
£1,700 per month. However, in the month before her application to MYJAR, I can see that 
Miss M paid almost £1,000 in debt repayments alone. In the month she applied for this loan 
from MYJAR, I can see that Miss Ms debt repayments exceeded her income. 
Miss M effectively had no spare money for her essential living costs and I can see that she 
borrowed from other high cost short-term lenders to plug that gap in her finances. She had 
also withdrawn a number of cash advances from her credit cards, which may also be an 
indication that she was struggling financially. She was approaching the limit of almost all of 
those cards. 
I appreciate MYJAR undertook a relatively thorough credit check. But I dont think that check 
revealed the extent of Miss Ms financial difficulties. So I cannot conclude that it was an 
effective substitute for the full review of Miss Ms finances that I find was proportionate on 
this occasion. 
Had a proportionate check been undertaken, I think MYJAR would have concluded that Miss 
M could not sustainably repay the loan. With all of this in mind, I uphold the complaint. 
MYJAR will need to take action to put things right for Miss M. 
  
Putting things right
MYJAR shouldnt have agreed to lend Miss M this loan. 
I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of it. If that is the case and MYJAR 
sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back if it can and then follow the 
steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below. 
a) MYJAR must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 1, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan. If this results in Miss M having made overpayments then MYJAR must refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss M It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off. If MYJAR and Miss M do agree a repayment plan, I 
remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Miss M fairly.
c) MYJAR must remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation 
to this loan. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require MYJAR Limited to comply with the above putting things 
right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Nicola BowesOmbudsman