DRN-4260372
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost after she was 
the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In December 2022, Miss S saw a handbag listed for sale on a social media website. She had 
successfully bought items from the seller in the past so trusted they were genuine, agreed to 
buy the handbag and sent a payment of £785 to the sellers bank details. Unfortunately, the 
handbag was never delivered to her, so Miss S reported the payment to Barclays as a scam.
Barclays investigated but said, as Miss S had successfully bought items from the seller 
previously, it didnt think this was a scam. And so it didnt agree to refund the money she had 
lost. Miss S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They thought this was most likely a civil dispute 
between Miss S and the seller, rather than a scam, and so Barclays had acted reasonably in 
not refunding the payment. Miss S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Miss S lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the seller set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Miss S has made two previous payments to this seller and successfully received the items 
she paid for with those purchases. And I think this suggests the seller was attempting to 
operate as a legitimate business, as it would take more work than I would expect from a 
scammer to successfully complete two different purchases.
The bank this payment was sent to has also told us it hasnt received any other scam reports 
against the account and didnt have any concerns about how the account was being run at 
the time. But scammers usually target a number of people at once, in order to make as much 
money as possible before the scam is uncovered. So Id expect to see other scam reports to 
the same account around the same time if the seller was operating a scam.
The seller also appears to have continued communicating with Miss S about the handbag for 
some time after the money was sent, which I also wouldnt necessarily expect from a 
scammer.
Miss S has said Barclays initially said the seller may have successfully sold her two cheaper 
items in order to lure her into buying a more expensive item later. And I cant say for sure 
that this isnt what happened. But, as the handbag was advertised on social media, there 
doesnt appear to have been any way for the seller to guarantee that Miss S, or anyone else 
they had made previous successful sales to, would see the advert or agree to buy the 
handbag. And, given the other evidence Ive mentioned above, I think its more likely the 
seller was attempting to operate as a legitimate business.
I appreciate how Miss S feels about this case, and that she has lost money as the handbag 
was never delivered to her. But I must make a decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the seller here was 
attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately 
meant the handbag wasnt delivered. I dont think the seller set out from the beginning with 
the intent to defraud Miss S, or that she has been the victim of a scam here.
So I dont think the payment Miss S made to the seller is covered under the CRM code, or 
that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss S has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the seller. But I can 
only look at Barclays responsibilities and, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alan MillwardOmbudsman