DRN-2094272
The complaint
Mr Ns unhappy with Allianz Insurance Plcs decision to decline his claim made on a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
All references to Allianz in this decision include its claims-handling agents.
What happened
Mr Ns former employer dismissed him in 2017, after which he notified Allianz that he wanted 
to claim on the policy for unemployment.
 
Allianz considered the claim but decided it wasnt payable. It said that, according to the 
evidence provided by Mr Ns former employer, his employment didnt end due to 
circumstances beyond his control. As such, it said it wasnt covered by the policy.
Unhappy with Allianzs decision, Mr N complained to us. Our adjudicator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. They felt Allianzs decision was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. Among other things, he said he had no 
control over his unemployment and that his former employer had deliberately misinformed 
Allianz about the reasons for his dismissal. Mr N said none of the policy exclusions for 
unemployment applied to his claim, so it should have been paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
 
No insurance policy will cover each and every event that might arise. The terms and 
conditions of the policy will set out the scope of the cover and what is and isnt covered. In 
this case, I note the policy terms set out that a claim for unemployment benefits could be 
made if: 
your employment ends unexpectedly due to circumstances beyond your control
The policy terms go on to explain some of the things that arent covered, including where:
your unemployment is due to your resignation voluntary redundancy or voluntary 
unemployment

your unemployment is due to disciplinary action by your employer as a result of 
misconduct, breach of contract or fraud, except where an Unemployment Tribunal 
decides such a decision was unfair
There seems little doubt that the policy exclusions arent relevant to Mr Ns claim. For 
example, no-ones arguing that he resigned or that he agreed to be made redundant.
Rather, Allianzs reservations about the claim concern whether Mr Ns employment ended 
due to circumstances beyond his control  as required by the policy. In reaching the 
conclusion that the claim wasnt payable, Allianz placed emphasis on the evidence provided 
by Mr Ns former employer. 
In the claim form it completed, the former employer was asked the reason for the loss of 
employment and it replied Performance. Allianz went on to ask if employment ended due to 
reasons entirely beyond Mr Ns control. It answered No and explained Mr N had Failed to 
improve performance.
Overall, I believe Allianz was entitled to rely on the information from Mr Ns former employer. 
I recognise that Mr N believes his former employer hasnt been truthful. And Ive carefully 
considered the email hes mentioned he sent to Allianz on 6 March 2019. But, as things 
stand, those allegations are simply his opinion. They havent been tested, for example, in an 
employment tribunal. 
Im aware that Mr N did intend to take legal action against his former employer, but I gather a 
settlement was reached which meant the action went no further. Ive considered what Mr Ns 
said about feeling he had little option but to settle but it remains that the matter was never 
considered by the tribunal. It wouldnt be fair me to assume the former employer treated 
Mr N unfairly in the absence of a legal ruling to that effect or merely because a settlement 
was reached. 
As such, and having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that it was fair for Allianz to 
decline Mr Ns claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while Im sorry for the disappointment this will cause Mr N, Ive 
decided not to uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman