DRN-2868786
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt close his account following a switch 
he made to a different bank account. He says that Nationwide have reported two missed 
payments on his credit file.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr S requested to switch his current account from Nationwide to a different 
provider. The switch was due to take place on 11 August 2020. As part of the switch, all of 
Mr Ss regular payment agreements were supposed to move across to his new account, and 
the account with Nationwide would be closed.
On 3 August 2020, Mr S withdrew the majority of the balance from the account  and left a 
small amount in the Nationwide account for any remaining payments that might be taken.
But then, between the 4 August and 11 August, four direct debits were collected, which left 
the Nationwide account overdrawn. Because the account was overdrawn when the switch 
took place, the account didnt close. 
Nationwide sent Mr S letters about the outstanding balance on the account  and explained 
hed need to repay this in 30 days. The letter gave Mr S a number to contact to make the 
payment.
Mr S says he did try to contact Nationwide on the phone number provided in the letter on a 
number of occasions, but he experienced problems each time. He said there were often very 
long call waits. And the system didnt recognise his account number when he tried to input it 
during the call. After many attempts, Mr S says he registered for telephone banking using his 
Nationwide credit card and was then able to speak to someone after hed done this.
Mr S also said hed tried to use his online banking, but shortly after the switch took place, he 
wasnt able to log in and view his account.
Because Mr S didnt make a payment for the outstanding balance until 3 November 2020, 
Nationwide reported missed payments to the credit reference agencies, which Mr S is saying 
are showing on his credit file. Mr S says the missed payments have prevented him from 
being able to get a mortgage.
Mr S complained to Nationwide, but they didnt uphold his complaint. It said that it hadnt 
done anything wrong when it didnt close his account following the switch  this is because 
there was a negative balance and so the account couldnt close. It also said that its call 
waiting times might have been longer than Mr S anticipated, but there were other methods 
he could have used to make a payment to clear the balance.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint too  and he thought it should be upheld. While 
he didnt think that Nationwide had done anything wrong when it didnt close the account 
because of the negative balance. He felt that Mr S had been unfairly disadvantaged in not 
being able to make the payment to the account over the phone and so he thought the 
missed payments should be removed from Mr Ss credit file. Our investigator explained in 
their assessment that Mr S has autism, and so he takes information literally. So when 
Nationwide sent Mr S a letter asking him to repay the balance, and provided a number to do 
this, Mr S did attempt to call but was unable to speak to anyone to make the payment. The 
investigator thought it understandable that Mr S didnt attempt to use any other methods of 
making the repayment  because these werent specifically mentioned in the letter.
Mr S responded to the investigator and agreed with his assessment. But Nationwide 
responded to say it didnt agree. I have summarised its main points below:
Mr S hasnt provided evidence of his outbound calls to prove that he attempted to 
contact Nationwide.
Mr S didnt provide a copy of his credit report, and so this service cant be sure that 
the missed payment it recorded are the only thing impacting his ability to be able to 
get a mortgage.
Mr S didnt ever tell Nationwide that he needed additional or support or that it should 
be communicating differently with him. 
Because Nationwide doesnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, it is my decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
It seems that Mr S has now accepted that he didnt have enough funds in his account when 
the direct debits collected prior to the switch taking place. Which has led to the account 
being overdrawn and not closing. So, I wont look at this part of Mr Ss complaint in this 
decision as it appears there is no longer a dispute about this. 
So, its now left for me to decide if it is fair of Nationwide to report the missed payments on 
Mr Ss credit file  given the individual circumstances surrounding this complaint.
Ive looked at the letter Nationwide sent to Mr S when it first requested that he make a 
payment to clear the balance. The letter is dated 12 August 2020 and confirms that 
Nationwide was unable to close the account as part of the switch agreement because of the 
outstanding balance. The letter says that Mr S needs to bring his account to a zero balance 
within the next 30 days. It provides a contact number for Mr S to call to do this. 
Looking closely at the letter, I cant see that it suggests any other way that Mr S could make 
a payment to clear the balance on the account other than to call. Which is what Mr S says he 
tried to do  but was unsuccessful because the system didnt recognise his account number 
and the call wait times were very long. 
Ive asked Mr S for evidence to prove that he did try to call Nationwide as often as he says 
he did - I asked him to provide copies of his phone bill to show this. Mr S did go away and 
get the copies of his itemised phone bill as requested. But the itemised billing doesnt show 
calls made to 0800 numbers. After doing some research, I understand that this is normal 
practice. Based on this, I cant see any reason why he wouldnt have tried to call. So, on 
balance, Im satisfied he did try and make those calls but was prevented from getting 
through to anyone through no fault of his own.This is also supported by the fact Mr S went out of his way to set up telephone banking on 
his credit card account, just so he could resolve this issue with the current account. Ive 
listened to the call Mr S made to Nationwide after he set up telephone banking. The only 
discussion that takes place during the call is about the balance on the current account  
theres no mention of the credit card, and so I think Mr S solely set up the telephone banking 
so he could contact Nationwide about making a payment. Which suggests to me that he has 
gone to some effort to try and resolve things over the phone.
 
Mr S told this service that he couldnt access his online banking after the switch. Ive seen 
Nationwides records which show Mr S last accessed online banking shortly after the switch 
took place on 16 August 2020  and the information suggests that he viewed his recent 
transactions at this time. I can understand Nationwides comments here, that he ought to 
have been aware there was an outstanding balance on the account when he checked his 
online banking on 16 August. But the dispute here isnt about his awareness of the 
outstanding amount due, its about his ability to be able to repay. While its possible that Mr 
S could have made the payment online when he logged in on 16 August, it doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome of this decision the fact that he didnt do this at this time. The letter 
from 12 August stated he had 30 days to make the payment. And so, Mr S still had more 
time to make the payment  which I presume is what he decided to do.
After this, Mr S says he lost access to online banking  and couldnt get through on the 
telephone, so he couldnt make the payment. I dont find Mr Ss explanation here 
unreasonable  and I dont doubt his version of events.
Nationwide has said that Mr S could have used other methods of contacting someone for 
help making a payment  such as web chat, website contact form, branch or post. I agree 
that Mr S could have done these things. But the letter Nationwide sent only provides a 
contact number. This made a difference to Mr S because he has autism. Mr S has told our 
service that he interprets information literally  which would support what hes said about the 
reason why he only tried to call  and didnt use any of the other options available to him 
(that werent mentioned in the letter). And I think this is later supported by Mr S signing up 
for telephone banking using his credit card account  so he could get through to speak to 
someone.  
Nationwide has said that it wasnt aware Mr S has autism, and so it isnt fair to uphold this 
complaint on that basis. But Im not upholding this complaint on that basis. The reason I am 
upholding this complaint, is because I find that Mr S has followed what Nationwide told him 
to do in relation to the outstanding balance  which was to call the number on the letter to 
pay it off. Im persuaded he tried to do this. But given that the letter didnt provide him with 
any additional information about other ways he could get in touch, and taking Mr Ss 
circumstances into account, I dont find his actions unreasonable.  
Based on everything Ive read and taking into account the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I think Mr S made reasonable attempts to contact Nationwide to make a payment. 
And so, I think its fair that Nationwide removes the missed payments from his credit file. 
While I appreciate that Mr Ss credit report should be a true reflection of how he has 
operated the account, and he did miss payments to bring the account up to date, it is my 
view that Mr S would have paid the outstanding balance much sooner if hed been able to 
easily contact Nationwide on the number it provided. Had this been possible, I dont think 
that Mr S would have missed any payments.
  
Putting things rightRemove any negative information that has been reported on Mr Ss credit file in relation to 
the outstanding balance on Mr Ss account following the switch.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Nationwide 
Building Society should put things right for Mr S y doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman