DRN-4198127
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost to an investment 
which she now considers is a scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In March 2018, Mrs V received information or advice from an investment management firm (I 
will refer to as C) to invest money into an investment with an organisation - I will refer to as 
W. On 28 March 2018 Mrs V transferred £10,000 from her Santander account to C (a 
genuine and authorised company at the time) and then on from there into her investment 
with W.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He didnt think any intervention by the bank 
would have made a difference in this case as W looked to be a genuine company at the 
time.
Mrs V did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made Mrs Vs representative, but I wont be 
addressing every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt 
follow that the points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every 
point in reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Mrs V is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I note W has gone into liquidation and there is an ongoing police investigation into the 
matter. So the outcome on whether or not this is a fraud or scam is not currently known. But 
I dont need to make a finding on this to reach an overall outcome that I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in this particular case.
The investigator said the transaction might have been considered unusual based on the 
historic activity on Mrs Vs account and I dont think thats an unreasonable conclusion to 
draw in this case. That said  even if Santander had intervened on the payment, I dont think 
it would have made a difference in this case broadly for the reasons the investigator 
previously outlined  which I have expanded on below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mrs V decision making or that 
Santander could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the evidence and 
wider circumstances of the case.
If questions had been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mrs V was 
proposing to make, I think its more likely than not that Mrs V would have explained she was 
transferring the money to C - a regulated and legitimate investment management firm at the 
time. I dont think this would have been particularly concerning to Santander. But if it had 
probed further it might have established that from there, Mrs V was investing in W - itself a 
UK registered company at the time. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs V might have researched things more  I dont think the investment 
would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that have now 
transpired with W foreseeable. Mrs V was transferring £10,000 (via C) for an investment with 
an organisation (W) which appeared  through its registration with Companies House - to be 
legitimate. Records held with Companies House indicate W was a genuine limited company 
that was incorporated in September 2015 and was actively trading (with no suggestion of 
liquidation) at the time Mrs V sent her money to it. So, the payment didnt look like fraud or a 
scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to unearth the facts 
about W that have now come to light (and which even now seem inconclusive after a 
considerable amount of time). So, I dont think Santander ought reasonably to have cause 
for concern.
Im sorry Mrs V has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why she 
would like to be compensated for her losses. But Im only considering whether the bank 
should be held responsible for what happened, and I dont think it didnt anything wrong in 
allowing the transaction to be processed. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman