DRN-3372327
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) approved an overdraft for him without 
adequately considering previous adverse information on his credit file. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly. Mr K, disagreed he says the overdraft was 
unaffordable and as he already had adverse information on his credit file he should never 
been given the facility in the first place. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ks complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Santander needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr 
K would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Santander did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ks overdraft. Mr K was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks Santander carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether Mr K would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time. 
When Santander approved Mr Ks overdraft facility with a limit of £500 in February 2020 Mr 
K had already held an account with it for a number of years. Santander says it carried out an 
automated credit check as part of its determinations and that Mr Ks credit file wouldve been 
one of the factors considered but wasnt the sole determining factor. Other factors taken into 
consideration were Mr Ks account management with it along with incomings and outgoings 
from the account. And based on this information Santander was satisfied Mr Ks score was 
high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ks credit report may have shown up some adverse information, but having 
viewed the statements of Mr Ks account with Santander over the previous four years I can 
see that he had managed his account with it well, and the regular credits coming in were at a 
level where the granting of an overdraft facility of £500 wasnt unsustainable. So on balance, 
given the conduct of Mr Ks account with it and that the amount of credit being advanced 
was relatively low, I think Santander was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it 
carried out and I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to conclude Mr K would be able to 
repay the overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Unfortunately, the granting of Mr Ks overdraft facility coincided with the 
pandemic and Mr K has told us - like many - it impacted on his livelihood negatively. I can 
see when the overdraft was granted Mr K almost immediately hit his limit by transferring the 
funds to another account and then by the end of March 2020 had exceeded his limit. 
I can also see that Santander took action within the 3 month review period and although it 
charged around £33 for the initial use of the facility, as soon as Mr K went over his limit it 
took corrective action and refunded fees and didnt charge anything further and wrote to Mr 
K at the address he had provided it about his account and offered assistance. But as there 
was no response it followed its process for defaulting and closing the account. 
So Im satisfied Santander continued to assess the credit Mr K had with it appropriately and 
took reasonable steps to assist Mr K when on review it appeared Mr K was unable to pay the 
overdraft back.
This means that I dont agree Santander provided Mr Ks with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K  especially as hes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman