DRN-2433829
The complaint
  Mrs M complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) lent her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
TFS Loans lent Mrs M a loan of £3,600 in August 2015, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on
giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
oTFS Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs M. 
It says it called Mrs M to ask about her expenditure, verified her income using an 
online income verifier and carried out a credit search. It says based on what it 
gathered the loan was affordable.
oFrom what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 60 monthly instalments of
around £136.82, given the length of the loan commitment, I would have expected 
TFS Loans to ask Mrs M about her monthly income and expenses including verifying 
some of the information she provided. I can also see from a payslip Mrs M provided 
to TFS Loans, that she was paid £934.17. This was quite a different amount from the 
figure TFS says it verified (£1,386). So, I think this ought to have prompted it to find 
out more. I cant see that it did this or verify any of Mrs Ms expenditure and so I dont 
think its checks went far enough.
oMrs M has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from TFS Loans at the time of the 
loan as I think her bank statements provide a clear picture about her actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, around the time TFS Loans granted 
Mrs M this loan, her income was consistently lower than what TFS Loans say they 
verified it as and was similar to the amount she was paid on her payslip. I think it 
would have become apparent to TFS Loans on receiving this information, that Mrs M 
was at the time she requested the loan receiving less in wages than she had 
declared and less than what it says it verified it to be. Looking at the bank 
statements, I also agree with our adjudicator and cant see that Mrs M had the 
income that would have supported her ability to afford this loan. Overall, the bank 
statements show that Mrs Ms outgoings outweighed her incomings.
oTFS Loans have recently pointed to the fact it used an online verification tool and that 
it used that figure to calculate whether the loan was affordable. But I think being 
faced with the information it had in front of it, that of a higher amount of income 
through the verification tool and a lower amount being displayed on a payslip 
provided, I think it ought to have sought further information to seek clarification about 
this. And after doing this TFS Loans would have seen that Mrs M couldnt afford this 
loan. In the circumstances, TFS Loans lent to Mrs M when it shouldnt have, and it 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
  While I think TFS Loans shouldnt have lent to Mrs M, I think it will be fair for her to repay 
the capital of £3,600 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, TFS Loans should:
add up all the payments made by Mrs M, if it exceeds the capital amount of £3,600, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mrs M, remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mrs M credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. TFS Loans must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct TFS Loans Limited to put
things right as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman