DRN-2795606
The complaint
Mr D complained that Ferratum UK Ltd acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Mr D took out two Ferratum loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Date paid Monthly 
instalmentsAmount Highest monthly 
repayment
1 06/05/2019 08/05/2019 4 £500.00 £209.21
2 25/05/2019 28/06/2019 1 £60.00 £75.84
Mr D mainly said that Ferratum failed to verify his income and expenditure, which meant it 
may have relied on the wrong information when assessing affordability, and it didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks in a borrower focussed way. He told us he is now in a 
debt management plan and his financial difficulties have left him feeling stressed and unable 
to sleep and hes fallen behind with payments he owes his family.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and Ferratum told us about these loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Ferratum saw anything that 
shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. And our adjudicator didnt 
think that the number of loans Mr D took, the amounts they were for or the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, shouldve shown Ferratum he mightve 
been experiencing underlying financial difficulty.
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. In particular, Mr D wanted us to take into account credit report information he 
sent us in support of what he told us about his financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Ive come to 
the same overall conclusions as our adjudicator and Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons.  
Ferratum provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Ferratum 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Ferratum was required to carry 
out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for 
Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might 
think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent 
was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ds complaint. 
Ferratum says it relied on information Mr D provided about his monthly income and 
expenditure as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. All this resulted 
in Ferratum being satisfied that the information it had about Mr D showed that repaying the 
loans shouldnt become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to 
lend. 
I've thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
As this was his first loan with Ferratum, at this early stage, Mr D didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Ferratum to any underlying money problems. The 
information Ferratum had gathered about Mr Ds finances suggested that he shouldve been 
able to afford to make the monthly repayments on this loan out of his disposable income 
according to the figures Mr D had declared. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr D provided or the other information 
Ferratum had recorded, which meant that Ferratum shouldve taken more steps to check the 
information Mr D had declared. Whilst I think its fair to say that Ferratum could see that Mr D 
had at least 16 active credit accounts, there was no significant adverse credit history shown 
on its checks. And bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have 
other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything 
that Id expect a lender to be unduly concerned about at this stage. It was early in the 
lending relationship and I think the checks were enough for Ferratum to agree to lend. So 
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
I can see that Mr D took out the second loan within a few weeks of paying loan 1 early  and 
it was less than three weeks since he had first approached Ferratum for a loan. But I dont 
think this was enough to make Ferratum think that Mr D was becoming increasingly indebted 
or struggling with being over stretched financially  especially bearing in mind that he 
borrowed a substantially smaller loan this time.
Mr Ds circumstances were unchanged and I think its fair to take into account that loan 2 
looked to be comfortably affordable for Mr D. He hadnt shown Ferratum any signs that he 
was finding it hard to pay for his borrowing and the figures hed declared, and the information 
Ferratum had collected, seem to support Ferratums lending decision. There wasnt enough 
in the credit check information that Ferratum could see that I think wouldve made it realise 
that he couldnt afford to pay this loan in a sustainable way. And I think it was too soon for 
Ferratum reasonably to be able to identify any particular pattern of lending that wouldve suggested Mr D was over-reliant on this type of borrowing or not using the money it lent for 
its intended purpose of providing short-term financial help.
Mr D feels that Ferratum didn't do all the checks he thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to him. But at this stage of the lending relationship, and given these loan amounts, 
I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Ferratum to ask Mr D to prove what he 
was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted 
to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont think Ferratum did anything wrong when 
it made its lending decisions based on the information it had at the time.
A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between 
information shown in Mr Ds own credit report and the credit checks that Feratum carried out. 
What happened after these loans were taken out wasnt something I think Ferratum couldve 
reasonably foreseen. 
Im sorry that Mr D finds himself in financial difficulty. I accept that Mr Ds financial situation 
possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided or the other information 
Ferratum obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this case, I dont think that Ferratum did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr D. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr D but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman