DRN-4146239
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) misled him when he 
took out a fixed sum loan agreement to pay for a mobile phone. 
What happened
The events of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr K took out a fixed sum loan agreement with 
VMMF to pay for a phone. The phone cost around £1,000 and Mr K was required to make 
£28 monthly payments for three years. Mr K says VMMF misled him because it told him he 
wouldnt have to pay for a sim on top of this. But he found out this was incorrect.  
To give some background, it looks like Mr K had a media package with a company linked to 
VMMF which came with a free sim. Mr K changed the media package on 2 August 2022, but 
his new package didnt come with a free sim. Mr K says that when he took out the fixed sum 
loan agreement with VMMF for the phone at the end of the month he was told hed only be 
paying £28 per month. Mr K complained because he was charged £10 per month for the 
new sim. Mr K acknowledged the sim deal linked to the media package was ending. But said 
when taking out the fixed sum loan agreement the agent should have been aware of this. He 
said he was unhappy he was paying £38 per month and could have got it cheaper 
elsewhere. 
VMMF sent a final response to acknowledge his previous media package came with a free 
sim. But when this was changed on 2 August 2022 the new package didnt include this. It 
said the new package took effect on 1 September 2022. VMMF said Mr K acknowledged he 
was told hed lose his free sim. VMMF said Mr K ought to have been aware his free sim 
would expire after the 30 days notice period ended for the media package. VMMF did 
however offer to reduce Mr Ks tariff by £3 per month, give two months free airtime and a 
one-off credit of £20. But it says Mr K rejected this. VMMF also gave Mr K the options to 
cancel the sim services, which would leave him only repaying the handset at £28. 
Mr K referred the complaint to our service. He said he wouldnt have had to pay the extra 
£10 if he went to another network provider to buy the phone. VMMF initially said the 
complaint wasnt within our jurisdiction because the dispute related to a sim contract, and not 
a regulated activity we have the power to investigate. After initially agreeing with this, our 
investigator spoke to Mr K. He explained that the discussions he was complaining about 
related to taking out a regulated fixed sum loan agreement. Our investigator explained to 
VMMF that this was something we could consider. 
Our investigator went on to consider the complaint to see if she thought Mr K was likely 
misled when taking out the fixed sum loan agreement. She highlighted VMMF couldnt 
supply the relevant sales call because it hadnt been retained. But she said she thought the 
free sim deal package was still showing as being in place when Mr K entered the agreement 
because that deal wasnt deactivated until a few days later. Our investigator thought given 
Mr K knew the free sim deal was ending he could have asked the advisor to confirm the 
situation for the new phone. 
Ultimately our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show Mr K was misled 
or that he was induced into taking out the agreement. She also wasnt persuaded Mr K 
wouldve done anything differently if hed been better informed. So she didnt make any 
recommendations. 
Mr K responded to say he was told the sim would be free for 36 months. He says he did 
explain to the advisor his media package had recently changed. He says he was induced 
into the fixed sum loan agreement by what VMMF had told him. He also supplied copies of 
text messages he says shows the sim was offered for free after the old deal ended. Mr K 
also highlighted hed changed his network provider in April 2023 and was now only paying 
£4.95 per month. He reiterated hed never pay £10 a month for a sim as there are better 
deals elsewhere. 
Our investigator put Mr Ks evidence to VMMF. It said its systems hadnt noticed the sim 
changes until after Mr K had entered into the fixed sum loan agreement.  It couldnt confirm 
why the change didnt happen immediately without being able to listen to the relevant sales 
call. But it said Mr K ought to have been aware of the situation. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr K again and he explained another Alternative Dispute 
Resolution (ADR) scheme had been involved and he was offered a refund of the £10 
monthly payments since inception along with £50. But he wanted to take things further as he 
thinks hes lost out. He says he would have bought the phone elsewhere had he been 
properly informed. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr K and VMMF that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
As our investigator and VMMF has pointed out, there are parts of the complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman is unable to consider. Our investigator has explained what we can consider, so 
Im not going to go over everything again in detail. But in summary, Mr K has complained he 
was misled when taking out a regulated fixed sum loan agreement. Our service is able to 
deal with complaints about the sale of regulated credit agreements like these. And VMMF 
can be held liable for antecedent negotiations carried out in relation to the making of any 
regulated agreement. Mr K has complained about the negotiations when making the 
regulated agreement so this is something our service can consider. 
Its disappointing the relevant sales call isnt available. Without this call its difficult to 
determine exactly what was said. Mr K has been clear and consistent he was misled. 
VMMFs notes, however, dont show that he was. Where the evidence is incomplete, I have 
to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive not seen anything in the contracts or finance agreement to evidence Mr K was misled 
about a free sim. But thats not to discount what Mr K may have been told on the phone. 
Given Mr K took out the fixed sum loan agreement during the notice period for the change of media package, this might explain why an agent of VMMF thought Mr K still benefited from a 
free sim. But without being able to listen to the call, Ill never know what was discussed. 
In any event, Mr K has been able to come out of the sim deal and hes gone to another 
network provider. Based on what hes told us, hes effectively had a few months without 
having to pay for a sim and he received compensation. So I think that part of his complaint 
has been broadly put right for him. 
Whats left to decide is whether VMMF needs to do anything in relation to the fixed sum loan 
agreement and whether it needs to pay further compensation. Mr K indicated previously hed 
want to hand the phone back and receive a full refund. But even if I were to say he was 
unfairly misled into entering into the fixed sum loan agreement, given hes had the phone for 
around a year now I dont think itd be fair to direct VMMF to take it back and offer a full 
refund. Its only fair Mr K pays for the use of the phone. 
I take Mr Ks point that had he known the true cost of the phone and the sim he may have 
gone to another supplier. But Ive not been shown evidence of what savings hed have made 
by doing this. And Ive not seen that Mr K would have benefitted by more than the amount he 
received off the back of the other ADR investigation. When referring his complaint to our 
service, Mr K highlighted the £10 cost as being the reason hed have gone to another 
provider. And hes received that money back now. So I dont have evidence of a financial 
loss as such that I can direct VMMF reimburse Mr K. Moreover, Mr K has already received 
some compensation relating to the matter. I dont find Ive seen enough to have the grounds 
to direct VMMF to pay more. 
I can understand why Mr K is unhappy. If VMMF did mislead him I suspect this wasnt done 
intentionally and it was as a result of the recent media package changes on the account 
having taken place. Not that that would make it fair on Mr K. But as I said, while Mr K has 
shown to be consistent and credible, the problem I have is that Id like to have had more 
certainty that firstly Mr K was misled, and secondly that hes lost out financially. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont find I have the grounds to direct VMMF to take further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman