DRN-3497566
The complaint
Miss C complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money she lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item she did not receive.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss C was the victim of a scam when she 
attempted to purchase two tickets for a music concert which shed seen advertised for resale 
on a social media platform.
Having seen the supposed sellers posting, Miss C had contacted them via online chat. The 
seller confirmed the ticket details and price of £120 (in line with what Miss C was expecting). 
The seller also provided a screenshot which showed what appeared to be a purchase 
receipt for the tickets Miss C wanted. This therefore appeared to Miss C to indicate the seller 
had got the tickets they were selling. 
The seller gave Miss C payment details and Miss C sent a payment of £120 by Faster 
Payments transfer from her Monzo account.
However, the tickets werent sent to Miss C, and the seller stopped responding to her. She 
reported the matter to both Action Fraud and Monzo as a scam.
Monzo didnt refund Miss C. It didnt dispute that she had been the victim of a scam but said 
that she hadnt exercised sufficient caution when making the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
circumstances (or exceptions) applies in this case. It said Miss C made the payment without 
having a reasonable basis for believing she was paying a legitimate seller for a genuine 
item. It didnt think the evidence Miss C had relied on was sufficient to have given her 
unequivocal proof of this.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. 
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Miss Cs claim under the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish that Miss C made the 
payments without a having a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
purchase from a legitimate seller. He thought that Miss C had taken sufficient care in the 
circumstances.
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Miss Cs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss C 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss C 
lost.
The money was sent from Miss Cs Monzo current account. It is not clear how Miss C 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But 
if Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Miss C 
would not have been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Miss C, to the date of 
settlement.
I find that Monzo has been unable to show that Miss C made these payments without having 
held a reasonable basis for believing she was paying a legitimate seller for a legitimate item. 
I consider the steps Miss C took were proportionate in the circumstances of this transaction. 
Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides. Under the terms of the CRM 
Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to 
establish that one (or more) of the limited exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Monzo argues that Miss C relied on evidence that didnt prove the seller was genuine. It 
comments that anyone could provide a picture of what appear to be concert tickets, and that 
this is in no way definitive proof that the seller was the true owner or that Miss C would have 
received them. 
Monzo goes on to say that even if it is accepted that there were no better steps Miss C could 
(or should) have taken to verify the legitimacy of the transaction, that doesnt mean shed 
done enough to have a reasonable basis for believing what she did. Rather - it says she 
simply should have not gone ahead.
I agree that none of the evidence Miss C obtained provided conclusive proof that the seller 
was legitimate  nor could it. But that is not the test required under the CRM Code. Monzo, if 
it wishes not to reimburse Miss C under the provisions of the CRM Code, must establish she 
made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate, in all the 
circumstances.
And while none of the steps she took gave conclusive proof, Im satisfied the evidence 
indicates that Miss C had taken reasonable and proportionate steps given the nature and 
value of the purchase amongst the other circumstances. There was nothing specific here 
that I consider should have been a glaring red flag that all might not have been as it seemed. 
Had there been, then I might find Miss C shouldnt have gone ahead without being able to 
reassure herself through further checks. But based on the evidence provided to me I am not 
persuaded there was anything here that ought to have prompted such concerns. This would 
have appeared a legitimate transaction at the time. In short therefore, I find Monzo hasnt been able to establish that Miss C made this payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate purchase from 
a genuine seller for a genuine item. 
It follows that I am not satisfied Monzo has established that it can fairly rely on the relevant 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code, and Monzo should now reimburse Miss C 
under the provisions of the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss C:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £120 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Miss Cs claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman