DRN-2253094
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) treated him unfairly 
by sending a recovery agent to his home to re-connect with him when pursuing him for a 
debt.
 
What happened
Mr G  had a loan with a bank, who for the purposes of this decision Ill call Bank A. He fell 
into arrears with his loan and Bank A appointed a debt recovery service to collect this debt 
on its behalf, who Ill call Debt Recovery B. In March 2017, Bank A sold the loan debt to 
Cabot.
Cabot wrote to Mr G to let him know Debt recovery B would continue to administer his 
account. Mr G had been paying a nominal monthly payment of £1 per month towards his 
debt, through Debt Recovery B, and continued to do so until October 2019.
Cabot decided it would take back the administration of Mr Gs account and wrote to him to 
tell him this in September 2019, shortly before he paid his last monthly payment.
Mr G contacted Cabot in November 2019, through its website, with an offer to continue with 
the monthly payment of £1. Cabot replied to this asking for Mr G to complete a budget 
planner so it could make sure the payments were affordable.
Mr G didnt do this and so Cabot tried to contact him again, without success, up until the end 
of January 2020. At this point it wrote to Mr G and confirmed it had appointed a company 
that Ill call RC. The letter explained that as Cabot hadnt been able to connect with Mr G, 
RC would visit him at home to help reconnect them. It also explained that this wouldnt be 
necessary if he contacted it within the next seven days.
Mr G didnt make contact and so RC visited his home address. Mr G said this was an 
intimidation tactic that caused him lots of distress and he feels it was unfair of Cabot to do 
this to him.
Mr G complained to Cabot, about this and also said that he was disputing the debt as he felt 
hed been coerced into taking the loan by his ex-partner and Bank A had been aware of this. 
In its final response Cabot didnt uphold his complaint, it said it had a legitimate reason to 
connect with Mr G. But it did apologise for any distress it had caused. It also confirmed that it 
hadnt been aware previously that Mr G was disputing the debt, and the debt was now being 
returned to Bank A.
Mr G remained unhappy with Cabots response and so referred his case to this service. 
When bringing his complaint her Mr G told us he had some health issues that are made 
worse when he is feeling stressed. 
He mentioned that he had a credit card with Bank A that had also been sold to Cabot and he 
felt he had been forced into that debt by his ex-partner as well.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint, in summary they said Cabot hadnt done 
anything wrong when it appointed RC to try to reconnect with him. And while they 
sympathised with Mr Gs ill health and the personal circumstances surrounding Mr G taking 
out the loan, they didnt think these fell under the responsibility of Cabot.
Mr G disagreed, he wanted to know why the investigator hadnt commented on the credit 
card debt and had only looked at the loan debt. The investigator explained, as Mr Gs 
complaint was about Cabot instructing RC to visit him, and the visit was in relation to the 
loan debt theyd focussed the investigation on this.
As Mr G didnt agree with the investigators outcome the matter has now been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I do, Id like to say, I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Gs personal situation and 
what he has been through and continues to go through. But I think its important for me to 
point out here that in this decision I cant consider what happened when he took out the loan 
from Bank A, as this wasnt the responsibility of Cabot. 
In this decision I will only be focusing on the actions of Cabot in relation to the loan account it 
bought from Bank A. Mr G has not complained to Cabot about its actions with regards to the 
debt on the credit card account and so it wouldnt be fair for me to look at this without Cabot 
having had the chance to do so. If Mr G would like Cabot to investigate its handling of the 
credit card debt, he should let them know.
Bank A assigned legal ownership of the debt to Cabot on 3 March 2017. Cabot sent him a 
Notice of Assignment confirming this on 27 March 2017. From this point onward, Cabot had 
the right to decide how it wanted to administer the account going forward, and its for me to 
decide if it did so fairly. In this case I think it has, I say this because for continuity it chose to 
allow Mr G to continue with the agreement, he already had in place with Debt Recovery B. It 
did this until September 2019, so there were no immediate changes for Mr G to worry about.
When it did make the change in September 2019, it wrote to Mr G to explain to him that it 
would now deal with him directly. Mr G made an offer to continue with the same payments, 
and Cabot asked him to complete a budget planner to make sure this was an affordable way 
forward for him. I think this was a reasonable request and what Id expect, as Cabot had a 
duty to ensure any agreement it entered with Mr G was right for him.
At this point Mr G decided to stop engaging  he didnt complete the budget planner and 
didnt respond to calls or letters. So, Cabot asked RC to help it to reconnect with Mr G. It 
explained in a letter to Mr G what this meant, and that if he didnt want RC to visit, he should 
make contact in seven days. It was up to Mr G to make the choice here and he chose to 
ignore the letter, resulting in the visit from RC going ahead.
When RC called at Mr Gs home, he disputed the debt and explained his circumstances, 
which RC relayed to Cabot. Once Cabot was aware of Mr Gs circumstances, they wrote to 
him to apologise for any distress the visit had caused. It also let him know that it had been contacted by Bank A and that the debt was now being passed back to Bank A for it to deal 
with.
So, Im satisfied that Cabot didnt send RC to Mr Gs home to intimidate him as he has 
suggested, but to reconnect with him and to help find a way forward. Given this I dont think 
it was a disproportionate action to take and dont agree with Mr G that Cabot has treated him 
unfairly. 
As Cabot is no longer responsible for the loan debt, Mr G shouldnt expect to hear from them 
again regarding it.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr G was hoping for. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Cabot  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman