DRN-2796601
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information Western Circle has provided, here is a brief table of approved loans. 
I understand that all loans have been repaid. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermhighest repayment
(rounded)
1 04/07/2017 31/08/2017 £300 2m £201
2 01/09/2017 30/11/2017 £400 3m £197
3 16/03/2018 29/06/2018 £300 3m £163
4 02/07/2018 28/09/2018 £500 4m £201
5 28/09/2018 09/10/2018 £500 4m £206
6 04/12/2018 29/03/2019 £600 4m £263
Mrs R complained to Western Circle and in December 2020 it issued to her its final response 
letter (FRL). It did not uphold her complaint but it offered her a sum to settle the complaint. 
After more correspondence, Western Circle changed the offer to a sum which was the 
equivalent of the loan 6 interest Mrs R had paid to it. Mrs R has not accepted that and 
brought her complaint to this Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and having reviewed the copy credit search 
result reports obtained by Western Circle before each loan approval, he thought that Mrs R 
was already struggling with debt before loan 1 was approved. So, he thought that Western 
Circle should not have lent to her at all and thought that it should put things right for Mrs R 
for each of the six loans. 
Western Circle disagreed and some of its reasons are listed here (paraphrased by me):
it challenged what the adjudicator had said about her credit situation: it thought that 
Mrs Rs credit situation improved as the lending relationship went on;
having other loans is not a bar to applying for Western Circle loans; and
the loans were affordable and sustainable; and
Mrs R repaid all her loans on time so she was not in financial trouble; and
she and her partner had good levels of income; and
the relatively modest gaps between loans 2 and 3 and loans 5 and 6 indicate she 
was not reliant on its loans.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Western Circle needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Western Circle 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Western Circle was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Western Circle has provided to us details of Mrs Rs declared information on her application 
forms, the details of the loan agreements including the scheduled repayments and whether 
Mrs R repaid early, plus the credit reports obtained before approving each loan. Western Circle is right that wed expect less detailed checks to have been carried out early 
in the lending relationship, but Western Circle had detailed credit reports about her and so 
that information was relevant at the time the approval decisions were made. The information 
revealed as to what Mrs R owed each month to the other lenders does indicate to me that 
Mrs R was not going to be able to afford these Western Circle loans. And this seems to have 
been the case from loan 1. 
I can see details of unsecured loans and short term loans which amounted to about £1,440 a 
month, over and above her substantial mortgage commitment repayments. This, plus the 
usual expenditure Mrs R had informed Western Circle about and these new loans, lead me 
to think that Mrs R would have struggled to repay the loans commencing from loan 1. And I 
come to this conclusion using the information Western Circle had before approving loan 1. 
Or, even if Mrs R had been able to afford the Western Circle repayment, I think it would have 
been tight for her, and one element of the creditworthiness assessment the FCA expects 
Western Circle to have carried out included consideration of the overarching picture. Its not 
always solely a pounds and pence calculation, but also an assessment from the borrowers 
perspective, recognising that Mrs R had a history of applying for other loans and short term 
loans, and at the time she applied to Western Circle, Mrs R had several other loans and 
short term loans which were outstanding. 
And I disagree that the credit reports show that Mrs Rs credit situation improved. It 
appeared to fluctuate but it did not change a great deal and the level of debt appeared to 
remain relatively consistent. 
Repayment of Mrs Rs loans on time, or early, is not necessarily, of itself, an indication that 
Mrs R was in a good position to be able to shoulder additional debt. So, I dont accept 
Western Circles point about that. 
Western Circle did know Mrs Rs salary and employment situation, and it noted that her 
partner also had a good level of income alongside her. But I note that Western Circle 
conceded that her partners income was not used when calculating the affordability for 
Mrs R. So, I consider this to be a moot point and I need not say more on it. 
The gap in the lending relationship between loans 2 and 3 was not enough to break that 
lending chain and Western Circle would have seen from the credit report it obtained before it 
approved loan 3 that she continued in debt with other lenders. And so, I dont consider that 
the short gap was some sort of indication to Western Circle that Mrs R was in a stronger 
financial position than before and so able to afford loan 3. 
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint for loans 1 to 4. 
I have also looked at the overall pattern of Western Circles lending history with Mrs R, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, it ought to have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Rs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5 and 
I have considered the short gap between loans 5 and loan 6 when coming to this conclusion. 
Plus, Western Circle has, effectively, conceded in relation to loan 6 by making the offers it 
has made to Mrs R about refunding her the interest.   
leading up to Loan 5 Mrs R was provided with a new and larger loan relatively quickly 
after settling the previous one. So Western Circle ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs R was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her 
previous loan was leaving in her finances; 
Mrs R wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Western Circle. 
Loan 6 was taken out 17 months after Mrs Rs first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Mrs R had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Western 
Circle over an extended period.
I think that Mrs R lost out because Western Circle continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 5 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Rs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Rs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about Loans 5 and 6 and Western Circle should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Western Circle should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it never lent to Mrs R at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs R in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Western Circles liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Western Circle ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mrs R paid on Loans 1 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 1 to 4 from Mrs Rs credit file;the number of loans taken from 5 onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans 5 and 6 should be removed from Mrs Rs 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Western Circle to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint and direct that Western Circle Ltd does 
as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman