DRN-4412789
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) unfairly declined 
a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted Admiral to make a claim for storm damage. Admiral arranged for a surveyor 
to assess the damage. The claim was then declined as the surveyor said the damage wasnt 
the result of a storm.
Mr C provided Admiral with a builders report about the cause of damage. Admiral continued 
to decline the claim, as it said the damage wasnt storm related. When Mr C complained, 
Admiral maintained its decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
although there were storm conditions, it was reasonable for Admiral to decide the damage 
wasnt consistent with a storm being the main cause of the damage and to decline the claim.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 September 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions around that time. Weather 
reports showed there were windspeeds of up to 58mph. These would be considered storm 
strength winds under the wording of the Admiral policy, which said a storm was winds with 
gusts of at least 55mph. I also think that strong enough windspeeds and rainfall could cause 
property damage, including water entering a property in some circumstances. So, I think the 
answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about whether a storm was the main cause of the damage. Ive read 
Admirals surveyor report. This didnt identify any visual signs of storm damage. The 
surveyor assessed that the roof had been overwhelmed by the storm rains and the rain was 
possibly driven underneath the roofing tiles and tracked down the cavity causing the internal 
damage. The surveyor said this wasnt a one-off incident and was the result of gradual 
process loss.
Mr C didnt agree that the damage was likely to be due to the roof. He also provided Admiral 
with a builders report. This said:
In my opinion, the gable end is absorbing water through the brickwork which has caused 
water damage to the interior of the property. In order to resolve the issue I propose to render 
the exterior using a waterproof additive and finish with Weathershield paint. The attached 
quote also includes making good the water damage to the interior of the property.
The builder provided a further report that said:
As previously stated the gable end has absorbed rainwater through the brickwork which has 
caused the water damage to the interior of the property. This is most likely to be the result of 
extreme weather conditions in this instance rather than a general deterioration over time.
Admiral also assessed the gable end based on the previous surveyors visit and photos. It 
found signs of unrelated repair work but didnt find signs of storm damage. It said the bricks 
and mortar should have been able to withstand a high level of water without it showing on 
the internal walls. It also considered Mr Cs builders assessment, including of the internal 
damage, and said that if the damage had happened in the way described, it would have 
expected to see damage/ bubbling all over the internal wall rather than just in patches.
So, Ive thought about this. I note the builders report doesnt explain why the damage was 
more likely the result of extreme weather conditions, rather than general deterioration. It also 
didnt explain whether the extreme weather conditions were a one-off event or identify 
specifically where the external damage was on the property itself. In terms of the reference 
to extreme weather, although there were storm strength winds, the amount of rain wasnt 
the amount that would be regarded as a storm. The policy said the rainfall rate would need 
to be at least 25mm an hour to be considered storm level. Looking at weather reports, these 
showed the maximum hourly rainfall around that time as 3mm on the day of the storm 
strength winds. A couple of days later there was a higher level of rainfall, which was 5.8mm 
of rain in an hour, but the wind speed was lower. So, I dont think the weather reports 
showed there was a significant, or extreme, level of rainfall and rain entering the property 
was a key aspect of the damage. Admiral was also of the view that a wall should be able to 
withstand a high level of water, which I think is reasonable.
Im aware Mr C has said Admiral told him the gable wall was in excellent condition. I havent 
seen anything that shows this in Admirals records, although I can see that the surveyors 
report said there werent any signs of storm damage to the gable wall. Mr C also said 
Admirals in-house surveyor didnt visit his home. However, I dont think there is anything 
unusual about an in-house surveyor basing their assessment on information such as a 
survey that had already been carried out. They arent required to visit, including where they 
think they have enough information on which to make their decision. In this instance, the in-
house surveyor identified issues with the pointing that they thought was pre-existing.
Mr C has also said the builder who provided the report had an excellent reputation and 
understood the local environment. I have no reason to doubt that. However, the builders 
report said the damage was due to extreme weather, but there wasnt a particularly high 
level of rainfall, and the report didnt explain why the water would have penetrated when a 
wall would normally be expected to withstand a high level of rain.
Ive also looked at the internal damage. Mr C had accidental damage cover under the policy. 
However, it said this part of the policy didnt cover loss or damage due to water entering the 
home and that these might be covered under other parts of the policy, such as the storm 
section. So, I dont think what happened was covered under this part of the policy, as it specifically said it didnt cover circumstances such as storm related damage. I also dont 
think there was evidence to show the internal damage was a one-off event.
Based on everything Ive currently seen, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline the 
claim. As a result, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require Admiral to do 
anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 October 2023. 
Admiral didnt respond.
Mr C provided a range of comments, which I have read in full and summarise as follows:
My provisional decision didnt include any particular consideration of Mr Cs June 2023 
submission to this service.
Based on the internal timestamp with the PDF document, the surveyor report Admiral 
had now provided was only created on the day it was sent to this service. He said this 
service should take advice from suitably qualified IT professionals on this point.
The surveyor report appeared to have two authors and parts of the report contradicted 
each other. He said I seemed to have been influenced by a statement in the report about 
it not being a one-off storm incident but instead the result of general wear and tear. He 
said this statement wasnt true. The damage appeared overnight and hadnt occurred 
before or since.
The comment in the report about there being no visible storm damage was wrong. The 
report contained photos of the internal walls clearly showing slight damage. Mr C 
referred to photos he had previously sent showing the damage was far more severe and 
widespread than the report claimed.
Mr C considered whether the reports comments referred to pre-existing damage, such 
as a hole in the wall. He said no such pre-existing damage existed and none of the 
images showed damage.
A comment in an email from Admirals contractor said the wall was well maintained and 
this was also confirmed by Mr Cs own builder. He said it was clear, before the report, 
that it was understood and documented that there was no visible process loss over time.
Mr C had consulted experts in the field, who said that even for walls that arent defective, 
water is absorbed into the walls and might cross the cavity into the inner wall. He 
provided excerpts from trade organisations about this.
Admiral said the photos showed damage to the brick, mortar or roof tiles, but the 
surveyors photos and online image werent of the required resolution to show damage.
Admirals survey resort provided an explanation of how water had entered, which was 
through the roof. This should have been enough for Admiral to accept the claim. 
However, Mr C had asked three builders to inspect the underside of the roof in the loft. 
None of them found water ingress through any part of the roof and so concluded the roof 
wasnt the point of water ingress. 
Mr C said this was an illustration of the poor quality survey and report. The surveyor had 
also rejected Mr Cs offer to inspect the roof by looking at it in the loft. The surveyor had 
said it wasnt in his remit to identify how the damage was caused.
Mr C commented on the weather conditions. He described the location of his house and 
said there is a rain shadow and a wind tunnel effect. He said that in my provisional 
decision, I had said storm conditions werent present. Mr C pointed to the terms of the 
contract, which he said were that it wasnt necessary for wind and rain to exceed the 
stated level for storm conditions to exist.
Mr C commented on the extent of the damage, including commenting again on how 
water penetrates walls. Although Admiral only provided three photos of minor damage, Mr C took photos the same day and the damage was extensive and severe and visible 
on all parts of the gable end wall. There was water flowing down an inside wall during the 
storm. The only part that appeared undamaged was the tiled area in the bathroom.
Admiral said the water damage had been gradual and wasnt caused by a storm. 
However, the damage appeared simultaneously across the entire wall. It wasnt credible 
for this to be caused gradually. Gradual water ingress appeared as damage to a small 
area which grows over time, which didnt happen in this case.
There wasnt evidence to show there was no storm damage to other houses or that 
damage to multiple houses is inevitable in a storm.
My provisional decision only referred to comments from one of Mr Cs builders. However, 
hed included the opinion of two other local builders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. When I made my provisional decision, I considered all the evidence from both 
parties, this included Mr Cs June 2023 submission to this service. I have also read the full 
details of what Mr C sent in response to my provisional decision. Where I dont comment on 
something it is because I dont consider it necessary to do so in order to make a fair and 
reasonable decision.
In terms of the time stamp on the PDF, I dont consider that I need advice from an IT 
specialist. In my view, a key consideration is the contents of the report rather than when it 
was then turned into a PDF. I havent found anything that persuades me the contents of the 
report wasnt written on the basis of what the surveyor identified during his visit or that those 
findings were altered before the report was sent to this service.
I also wasnt specifically influenced by one statement in the surveyors report. I can confirm I 
considered all of the evidence available to me in order to make my decision. Mr C has also 
suggested I didnt think there were storm conditions. In my provisional decision, I said I 
thought there was a storm around the time the damage was found. I also looked at Mr Cs 
builders comments about extreme weather. In that instance, I was looking at the level and 
combination of rain and wind, as I was considering the likelihood of rain penetrating through 
to the surface of the internal wall. On one day, there were high winds, but a lower level of 
rain. On another day, there was a higher level of the rain, but lower windspeeds. 
I also note that in Mr Cs comments on my provisional decision, he provided evidence from a 
trade organisation that said: Water penetration is related to local rain conditions, the more 
rain and the more wind driving the rain onto the brick cladding the greater the likelihood of 
water penetration
My reading of this is that the combination of greater levels of rain and wind at the same time, 
the greater the likelihood of penetration. I note it doesnt give a timescale or seem to indicate 
the level of wind or rain or how far the water might penetrate.
Another document Mr C provided said: In very severe and prolonged conditions, rainwater 
may be absorbed further into the bricks and eventually reach their inner surface, first as 
dampness and then as free water
The document doesnt seem to define what it would regard as very severe and what time 
period prolonged covers and whether that means hours or potentially months or years.I also note the surveyor report said Mr Cs property had cavity walls and the trade document 
Mr C linked to said:
In masonry cavity walls it is accepted that some water will pass through the outer leaf in 
prolonged periods of wind-driven rain, but the design of the wall is intended to deal with this 
inevitable eventuality. The risk of further penetration through the wall and into the building is 
minimized by the proper design and installation of the walls associated damp- proof 
systems.
So, Im not persuaded these show a one-off event, such as a storm, was more likely the 
cause of the damage, even if the storm highlighted the issue. 
Mr C also said he had provided comments from two other builders, but I didnt comment on 
them. Mr C had said:
Another builder has stated that there is no doubt that the damage is storm damage and the 
builder that has since repaired the storm damage also considered that the damage was 
caused by a storm.
These were comments from two unnamed builders who Mr C reported said the damage was 
storm related but with no further evidence from them about why they thought this was the 
most likely cause. I dont think this was persuasive evidence.
Im aware Mr C has said the surveyor downplayed the level of internal damage, which was 
much more severe, and that it happened on only that occasion. However, based on 
everything Ive seen I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Admiral to decide the 
damage wasnt the result of a one-off storm and was instead the result of a gradual issue. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require Admiral do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman