DRN-3748818
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) wont refund 
fraudulent transactions made with his credit card.
What happened
Mr H says that while on holiday in Vietnam in April 2022, his Barclays credit card was used 
to make two purchases in the United States. Mr H says his card wasnt lost or stolen, and 
that he had it in his possession at the time of the disputed transactions. Mr H became aware 
of the transactions, when he received a text message from Barclays saying his credit card 
was close to its limit. The transactions were made on 26 April 2022 and totalled just under 
£3,000.
Mr H reported the disputed transactions to Barclays and asked them to refund him. Barclays 
declined to refund Mr H, saying the card remained in Mr Hs possession and there was no 
evidence the card was cloned. However, Barclays acknowledged that Mr H had received a 
poor level of service in completing his fraud claim and paid him £25 as a goodwill gesture. 
Barclays advised Mr H that they were closing his credit card account, in line with the terms 
and conditions.
Mr H wasnt happy with Barclays response, so he raised a complaint about the outcome 
theyd reached and also raised further dissatisfaction with the fraud claim process after going 
into a Barclays branch.
Barclays wrote to Mr H on 1 July 2022. They apologised for the poor service hed received in 
their branch and offered an additional £50 in compensation. They sent a second letter to    
Mr H a few days later, saying theyd reviewed the outcome on his fraud claim and wouldnt 
be refunding him.
Mr H wasnt happy with their response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
Mr Hs complaint referred to the disputed transactions, which he wanted Barclays to refund. 
As well as his dissatisfaction with Barclays closing his credit card account, saying he wanted 
the account reopened.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt it was 
more likely than not Mr H had authorised the transactions and that Barclays had acted 
reasonably in closing Mr Hs credit card account. The investigator felt the £50 Barclays had 
already offered Mr H for the poor level of service was fair.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators opinion saying:
His card with another bank was also used for fraudulent transactions, with attempts 
made on 12 April 2022.
He believes his cards were compromised around the 10th or 11th April 2022.
While Barclays say the chip in his card was read for the disputed transactions, it 
couldnt have been as he had his card with him in Vietnam.
If he wasnt in the United States and didnt sign for the purchases  thats evidence 
that fraud took place.
We havent considered that he may have been the victim of a new type of credit card 
fraud  where someone was able to use his card without physically having it.
Hes told us the truth and feels that hes being penalised for doing so.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having reviewed the case, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Barclays evidence shows that the disputed transactions were made using Mr Hs 
genuine card, as the chip in the card was read for both transactions. 
Mr H says he had his card in his possession when the transactions happened, but I 
cant see how the card couldve been both in his possession in Vietnam and be used 
for the transactions in the US. 
Im not satisfied that there is evidence to support Mr Hs claim that his card, and in 
particular the chip in his card, were cloned. Im aware that the magnetic strip on a 
card can be cloned, with the information obtained by fraudsters. But Im not 
persuaded that it was possible for Mr Hs chip in his card to be cloned and used for 
the transactions. 
Mr H says his other cards were compromised in the week of 10 April 2022, with funds 
taken from an account he holds with another bank. Its unlikely if both cards were 
compromised in early April, that a fraudster would wait nearly two weeks before using 
Mr Hs Barclays credit card. As it was likely the other transactions would be noticed 
and all of Mr Hs cards would be cancelled preventing their use.
Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Hs credit card in line with the 
account terms and conditions.
The £50 offered by Barclays for the poor service Mr H received in making his fraud 
claim, is fair in the circumstances.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr Hs 
genuine card was used for the disputed transactions. And, based on Mr Hs testimony that 
the card wasnt lost or stolen, I think its most likely that the card was used by someone other 
than Mr H with his consent. While Mr H may not have signed for the transactions, as I think 
its most likely he gave his card to someone to use, Barclays are entitled to hold him liable 
for the transactions. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard. However, Barclays should arrange to pay Mr H the £50 they offered for 
providing a poor level of service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman