DRN-2976749
The complaint
Mr R complains that, as a result of the actions of AJ Bell Management Limited trading as AJ 
Bell Youinvest (AJ Bell), he lost the opportunity to take up a subscription offer for a company 
he held shares in. He also says AJ Bell have breached their terms as a result of their delays 
in responding to his complaint.
What happened
Mr R owns shares in a company. In November 2020, AJ Bell received notification, from a 
third-party provider, of a subscription offer for that company through which customers could 
subscribe for new shares at a set rate on a first come first serve basis.
AJ Bell made Mr R aware of the offer the same day they were notified by sending him a 
secure message. As AJ Bell were unable to facilitate the offer themselves, the secure 
message was marked as no response being required and provided Mr R a link to the third-
party provider should he wish to take it up.
However, as the secure message said no response was required Mr R didnt consider it 
urgent, so didnt prioritise to read it that day. When Mr R did read it and decided to take up 
the offer with the third party, he was too late, the subscription had closed.
Mr R complained to AJ Bell saying their inclusion in the secure message that no response 
was required was recklessly misleading, and that the message shouldve stated a response 
was required by the following day.
After failing to receive an acknowledgement providing him with a case handlers name from 
AJ Bell within five business days, Mr R said this was in breach of their complaints policy and 
asked for a new complaint to be set up to address this. AJ Bell responded to say theyd 
consider both of Mr Rs concerns within the same complaint.
AJ Bell didnt provide Mr R with a response to his complaint within the timescales the rules 
allow, and he referred his complaint to our service in January 2021. He wanted AJ Bell to 
explain why their secure message said that no response was required when that wasnt the 
case, and he wanted compensating for his losses due to not being able to take up the offer, 
which he calculated to be £1,029.
In February 2021 AJ Bell sent Mr R their final response letter, but they didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said theyd advised Mr R of the subscription offer on the day it was brought 
to their attention and provided him with sufficient information, including a link to the third 
party, through which he could participate if he wished. AJ Bell said the status of the secure 
message being set to no response required was correct as they were unable to permit the 
offer on their platform.
AJ Bell did recognise Mr Rs concerns were not acknowledged within their standard 
timeframes and that he didnt received their formal response within the timeframe stipulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. Considering this, by way of apology, they offered Mr R 
£100.
Mr R remained unhappy so one of our investigators looked into things. She felt the 
information provided within the secure message sent by AJ Bell was clear and included a 
link to the third partys website should he have wished to have taken part.
Our investigator said whilst on previous occasions AJ Bells secure messages mightve 
included a deadline to respond, on this occasion no response to them was required as they 
wouldve been unable to assist with the subscription offer. So, in this context she said the 
message status was correct.
Mr R disagreed AJ Bell not including a response date in the secure message wasnt mis-
leading. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr R, Im not upholding his 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked closely at the secure message sent by AJ Bell to Mr R. Whilst I agree it doesnt 
include a response due date, and the status advises Mr R that there is no response 
required, Im satisfied thats because a response to AJ Bell wasnt required as they were 
unable to facilitate the offer on their own platform.
The secure message clearly explains this and advised Mr R to contact the third party directly 
if he wanted to partake. 
The terms of service set out by AJ Bell, which Mr R agreed to, say:
4.4 You are responsible for monitoring Your Account, ensuring that you read Your 
secure Messages and informing Us if there is something wrong on Your Account or it 
has been subject to unauthorised use.
I understand Mr R didnt read the message straightaway; he says this is because the status 
of the message saying no response was required meant he didnt prioritise it. I acknowledge 
it mustve been frustrating that when he did read it the following day, he found he was 
already too late. But that doesnt mean I think AJ Bell did anything wrong. 
Mr R says the secure message should have clearly stated a response was required by the 
day after it was sent, but AJ Bell have explained the subscription offer was set up on a first 
come first serve basis so at the time of notifying Mr R of the offer, which I can see they did 
the same day it was announced, AJ Bell wouldnt have known a deadline date to include nor 
would it have been for them to decide.
Both Mr R and AJ Bell have referred to term 6.13 in the evidence theyve provided. The term 
says: 
We will use reasonable endeavours to notify You by Secure Message of a Corporate 
Action notified to Us by a company or Third-Party Custodian and request Your 
instructions. If You do not give Us instructions in the manner We require at the time 
and within the period specified in the secure message, the default option of the 
company will apply as advised by Us. The only exception is that We will always 
accept compulsory takeovers and mergers.
AJ Bell point to using reasonable endeavours to notify a client by secure message of a 
corporate action notified to them. Im satisfied they did this, and by notifying Mr R on the 
same day they received the information I dont think they could have done anything more.
Mr R points to AJ Bell explicitly saying, If You do not give Us instructions in the manner We 
require at the time and within the period specified in the secure message. He says this 
means the investor is entitled to rely on the date in the secure message as clear instruction, 
but I cant say I agree.Where AJ Bell were facilitating a corporate action, I would be minded to agree with Mr R, but 
on this occasion they werent. And as such, they didnt require a response, so Im satisfied 
the term doesnt apply as they werent able to receive any instruction regarding the offer 
regardless of date.
As Ive said, I understand missing the subscription offer mustve been frustrating for Mr R, 
the window of opportunity set out by the third party was short, however Im satisfied this 
wasnt the fault of AJ Bell and I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
AJ Bell recognised they didnt acknowledge Mr Rs complaint within their standard 
timeframe, and he experienced further delays in receiving a final response. AJ Bell have 
offered £100 by way of an apology. Im satisfied this fairly reflects any distress and 
inconvenience the delays mightve caused Mr R.
So, in summary, Im satisfied AJ Bell acted fairly and reasonably when notifying Mr R of the 
subscription offer set out by a third party. But they should Pay Mr R the £100 already offered 
to reflect the delays in their response to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that AJ Bell Management Limited 
trading as AJ Bell Youinvest should, as it has agreed:
Pay Mr R £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman