DRN-3322513
The complaint
Mr F complains about the poor service he has received from Jarvis Investment Management 
Limited (Jarvis). In particular, he says it is responsible for losing share certificates he sent to 
it.
To put matters right Mr F wants Jarvis to meet the cost of obtaining replacement share 
certificates.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr F sent a number of documents to Jarvis using Royal Mails recorded 
delivery service. Included in the bundle were share certificates for five different companies 
and transfer forms. I understand that Mr F wanted to move his holdings to a nominee 
account with Jarvis.
Unfortunately, for whatever reason, when Jarvis checked the items it had received it came to 
light that share certificates for two of the companies and a transfer form for another of Mr Fs 
holdings were missing.
Jarvis contacted Mr F to request the missing items. Mr F said all the documents were sent in 
the same envelope. He explained he had sent the bundle using Royal Mails recorded 
delivery service. Mr F said he was of the view that as the envelope had been received by 
Jarvis it was unlikely that only some of the documents had been lost in the post. He said he 
felt it was more likely that the documents had been misplaced once they had been received 
by Jarvis.
Jarvis looked into the issue and said its post room recalled receiving a damaged envelope, 
but they couldnt be sure it was the envelope Mr F had sent. It also said that its postal team 
hand delivers recorded delivery items to the relevant department, in this case its Certificates 
department. It said it felt this meant all the documents contained in the envelope would have 
been passed to its Certificates department.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Jarviss response and referred the matter to this service. An 
investigator considered Mr Fs complaint. Having done so he said he didnt think he could 
uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think there was enough evidence to safely conclude 
that the documents had reached Jarvis, and then been misplaced.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators view. He said, he accepted that Jarvis wasnt 
responsible for any failings by the postal service but he felt it should have told him that the 
package he had sent by recorded delivery had arrived damaged; if this was what had 
happened. Mr F also reiterated that he felt it was likely the documents had been misplaced 
by Jarvis, rather than lost in the post.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 February 2022. In it I explained that 
I had reached a different view to that of our investigator and I set out why.
I noted that Mr Fs complaint was somewhat unusual in that Jarvis said it had received 
some, but not all, of the documents that were sent in the same package. It said its post room 
staff recalled receiving a damaged envelope but didnt know if it was the package Mr F had 
sent.
As this was the case it wasnt possible to say with any certainty whether the damaged 
envelope that Jarviss post room recalled receiving was the package Mr F had sent by 
recorded delivery.
I noted that Jarvis had told this service that items sent by recorded delivery were passed by 
hand to the relevant department. It said it felt sure that any items that were contained in the 
package when it was received would have been passed directly to its Certificates 
department and would not have been misplaced. It said it thought the documents must have 
been lost in the post and it said it couldnt reasonably be held responsible for any failings by 
the postal service.
I agreed that Jarvis wasnt responsible for any failings by Royal Mail. But I noted that Jarvis 
is required to treat its customers fairly and act with due skill, care and diligence.
I said I was of the view that if a package that had been sent by recorded delivery was 
received with significant damage  and presumably the damage to the envelope must have 
been quite significant if more than half of the documents (by weight) had fallen out  Jarvis 
should have contacted Mr F to let him know that the package had been damaged in the post 
and it appeared items had been lost as a result.
As Jarvis said all recorded delivery items are delivered by hand to the relevant team I said I 
didnt think it would have been particularly onerous for its post room to have flagged with the 
relevant department that the envelope had been damaged in the post and documents might 
be missing.
I noted that Jarviss Certificates department contacted Mr F to request the missing items. But 
I said I thought that if it appeared to Jarvis that the missing items may have been lost in the 
post (in view of the damage to the envelope) it would have been fair for it to flag this with 
Mr F immediately. I said I felt this was particularly important as it would have known on 
checking the items it had received that it was likely share certificates were missing.
But, having carefully considered this matter, I said I couldnt say for certain whether the 
documents were lost in the post, or by Jarvis. In view of this I said I didnt think it would be 
fair to require Jarvis to meet the cost of the replacement share certificates.
However I said I did think Jarvis should have told Mr F that there was a problem, and that 
important documents might have been lost, as soon as it was aware that the package he 
had sent by recorded delivery and containing share certificates had been (presumably quite 
significantly) damaged in the post  if this is what had happened.
Had Jarvis done so I said it would have allayed any concerns Mr F might have that the 
documents had been misplaced by Jarvis. As the information about a damaged package 
only came to light after Mr F had flagged with Jarvis that it must have misplaced some of the 
documents he sent, he, understandably, has some concerns about Jarviss claim that his 
documents must have been lost in the post.
In order to put matters right I said my provisional decision was that Jarvis should pay Mr F 
£150 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused him.
Mr F responded to say he accepted my provisional decision and noted that Everyone says it is unclear whether the material was lost by the Post Office or Jarvis. The 
reason for this is that Jarvis did not have an appropriate process in place to record and keep 
the information about items delivered to them. Hopefully they do now.
Jarvis did not accept my provisional decision. In summary it said that it did not think it should 
have to compensate Mr F for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused him. It said 
its failure to tell Mr F that the package he had sent had been significantly damaged in the 
post and that it appeared items were missing hadnt had any material impact on the incident 
itself as the documents Mr F had sent would still have been missing. 
And it said that, as there was no evidence to support Mr Fs view that it had mislaid or 
misplaced his share certificates, it didnt feel it should be held responsible for any distress or 
inconvenience this matter had caused Mr F.
It also said it has now changed its processes and notifies customers if it receives post that is 
significantly damaged 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Jarvis says it doesnt accept that the failure to disclose the damage to the envelope 
caused material impact to Mr F to the tune of £150.00. And it says there is no evidence to 
show that it lost Mr Fs share certificates.
I remain of the view that if Jarvis had treated Mr F fairly and had acted with due skill, care 
and diligence it would have promptly notified him if it received a significantly damaged 
package, he had sent by recorded delivery. As I set out in my provisional decision, the 
damage must have been significant if over half the documents (by weight) had fallen out.
Because Jarvis didnt take any action when its post room received the damaged package it 
is not now possible to say with any certainty whether the damaged package Jarvis received 
was the package Mr F had sent to it. 
As a result, through no fault of his own, Mr F has not only suffered the loss of important 
documents that he will incur costs to replace, but he also has the additional uncertainty of 
not knowing whether the documents were lost in the post or whether the documents were, in 
fact, lost by Jarvis.
I think Mr F took reasonable steps to ensure his valuable documents were safely delivered to 
Jarvis. I remain of the view that Jarvis did not act with adequate care once it received the 
package Mr F had sent to it. It either failed to notify Mr F promptly that the package he had 
sent had been damaged and it appeared share certificates had been lost, or it has misplaced 
some of the share certificates Mr F sent to it. As this is the case, I dont accept Jarviss view 
that it isnt responsible for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
I note that Jarvis has said there is no evidence to show it lost Mr Fs documents. As Jarvis 
will know, this services jurisdiction is inquisitorial, not adversarial. As this is the case, in our 
consideration of complaints neither party bears the burden of proof.As I explained above, based on the evidence available I cant safely say whether Mr Fs 
documents were lost in the post because Jarvis failed to act with due care when it received 
the damaged envelope it now claims may have been sent by Mr F.
I therefore remain of the view that Jarvis should pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and 
inconvenience its poor service has caused him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Jarvis Investment 
Management Limited should pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and inconvenience its poor 
service has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman