DRN-4413305
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited caused further damage to 
his car when it took it for repairs following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He 
wants it to pay him the value of his car. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged in an incident and Watford took it for bodywork repairs. But when 
Mr M went to collect the car, it wouldnt start. He took it to a dealers garage for diagnostics. 
And it said there were multiple faults with the ECU, possibly caused by jump starting the car. 
The cost of the repairs was disproportionate to the value of the car, so Mr M sold it for parts. 
He wants Watford to make good his losses. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt sufficient evidence that Watford had caused the damage. This was because she saw 
evidence that the ECU had faults before the repairs were started and these werent incident-
related. She didnt see evidence that the repairer had tried to jump start the car. And she 
thought the dealers garages report didnt confirm what had caused the damage. 
Mr M asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that his car wasnt working following bodywork 
repairs. Mr M said his car was collected for repairs and driven away, so it was working fine at 
that stage. The repairs were carried out within three weeks and then the repairer tried to 
contact Mr M to collect his car and pay his policy excess. It took six weeks for Mr M to collect 
his car. And then the keys wouldnt start the car.
Mr M said the repairer told him it had tried to jump start the car. But he thought it had used 
the incorrect method and this had damaged the cars ECU. But Watford said the repairer had 
confirmed that the cars battery for the keys had gone flat whilst it was waiting for collection 
and the electrical problems were due to wear and tear. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional 
repairs.
The evidence that Watford had to consider was the vehicle health check carried out by the 
repairer when the car was in the garage and a report from the dealers garage. As far as I 
can see, the health check was carried out before the bodywork repairs had been completed. 
This is shown by the date stamps. And a diagnostic found that there was a current problem 
with voltage, presumably for the starter, and a list of historic electronic faults. 
The repairer thought the problem was due to key fobs failing and this was unrelated to the 
incident or the repairs. I accept Mr Ms point that this diagnostic would have been 
unnecessary for a bodyshop to carry out unless there had been a fault with the car. But this 
doesnt mean that the repairer caused the damage. 
Mr M had his car taken to a dealers garage for diagnosis. This identified that the keys and 
the key battery needed to be replaced, as a start, and then further diagnosis would be 
needed. Mr M said the spare key hadnt failed, but this is partly contradicted by this report as 
it says the spare key was still coded but not recognised by the cars immobiliser system. The 
report states a Probable cause but qualifies this with We cannot identify with any certainty 
what has caused this damage So there is no confirmation that the damage was caused 
by the repairer.
The dealers garage thought the damage most likely could have been caused by the car 
being jump started. And Mr M has told us that the repairer said it had to charge the battery. 
But I havent seen any evidence to confirm that the repairer jump started the car or, if it did, 
that this caused damage. And I think the repairers diagnostic report points to the car having 
previous unrelated faults. So I dont think there is sufficient evidence to show that the 
repairer was responsible for the electrical damage to the car. 
So Im satisfied that Watford reasonably considered the evidence available and it has 
justified its decision that its not responsible for the repair of the electrical faults to Mr Ms 
car. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman