DRN-4259954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) has 
handled a claim under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
For ease of reading, Ive referred to Mr U throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mr U has a LEI policy which is underwritten by UKI. He made a claim on the policy to 
pursue a legal dispute against his neighbour as their plants were encroaching on his 
land. 
UKI appointed a panel firm of solicitors, J, to deal with the matter. J said the legal 
claim had reasonable prospects of success and so wrote to Mr Us neighbour. J also 
asked Mr U to obtain estimates for the remedial works. 
The neighbours insurer said they were willing to settle on a without prejudice basis. 
J deemed it a reasonable offer and asked Mr U to provide updated estimates for the 
works. 
Mr U didnt want to settle on a without prejudice basis. He said there was a risk that if 
the issue persisted after the remedial works, he wouldnt have any further recourse. 
He said he wanted an arborist to attend and his property and provide an expert 
opinion on the situation  something J had previously suggested.
Mr U complained to UKI saying: he disagreed with the settlement; J hadnt handled 
his claim promptly; J had failed to respond to emails in a timely manner and answer 
his questions. 
UKI explained it isnt legally qualified and so, is entitled to rely on Js legal advice  
which was that as the neighbour had agreed to settle on a without prejudice basis, an 
arborist wasnt necessary. UKI reiterated Js comment that any remedial work ought 
to come with a guarantee and so there, would be recourse if the problem reoccurred. 
It recognised however, there had been delays and poor communication and paid 
£150 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr U brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but 
didnt uphold it. Mr U remained unhappy and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
- The issue here is that Mr U disagrees with the advice J has given  namely, to 
accept a settlement offer on a without prejudice basis. He doesnt consider it to be 
an adequate solution to the legal dispute.  
- Im aware Mr U has already referred his concerns about Js advice to the Legal 
Ombudsman which is the appropriate body to review these. But, whilst I cant 
comment on the merits of Mr Us legal dispute, I have considered whether UKI has 
acted reasonably by relying on Js advice when handling Mr Us LEI claim. 
- UKI, as the insurer of the policy, isnt a legal expert. And so, its entitled to rely on the 
advice of a qualified legal expert, such as J to inform its position. 
- J has explained to both parties why it considers accepting the settlement offer to be 
the right course of action and in turn why it doesnt deem an arborists survey to be 
necessary. 
- In the absence of evidence which suggests Js legal advice is so obviously wrong, I 
consider it reasonable for UKI to have relied on it to say its now up to Mr U to decide 
whether he wants to accept it as a resolution to his LEI claim or not. 
- UKI has paid compensation to recognise there were shortcomings with how J 
handled the claim. By doing so, it seems to be acknowledging it should have had 
better oversight of how J was progressing things. I consider £150 to be fair in the 
circumstances. 
- Understandably, the situation with his neighbour has been stressful for Mr U and this 
has been compounded by being advised to accept what he considers to be an 
inadequate resolution to his dispute. But, in terms of what I can look at  namely, 
UKIs handling of the LEI claim  I havent seen anything to persuade me it has 
treated him unfairly, and so I wont be recommending it pay additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman