DRN-2899994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with them when they were 
shielding during the pandemic.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a part interest only mortgage that matured in July 2017 and was extended 
until July 2020. Mr and Mrs F hadnt been living in the house but returned in June 2019 to 
get the house ready for sale and to sell it in advance of the maturity date. Mr F suffered 
some health problems as did other members of the family which prevented getting the house 
ready and then during the pandemic, as vulnerable persons they were in lockdown. The 
pandemic also created demands on the bank and Mr and Mrs F had difficulty getting through 
by phone. When they dd get though they found the attitude of the bank unhelpful, requesting 
an income/expenditure account, suggesting that they might have to use all their money, bar 
£100, to repay the mortgage. Thy say that the bank didnt appreciate that the money was 
required to prepare the property for sale, and it didnt appear to have a policy on shielding.
Barclays apologised for the delays encountered by Mr and Mrs, F and in failing to reply to 
their secure messages and offered to credit £25 to their account. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld as in general she didnt find that Barclays 
had acted unreasonably. Mr and Mrs F disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F asked to speak to me before making my decision. However, Im satisfied that Ive 
sufficient information on the file to come to a fair decision in this case. Im sorry to hear of the 
recent illnesses suffered by Mr and Mrs F and their family and they have my sympathy. Mr 
and Mrs F were aware that their mortgage was about to mature and had plans to pay off the 
mortgage by selling their house. Indeed, as I read it, Mr and Mrs F were particularly anxious 
to do so because of Mrs Fs disability. It was in everyones best interests that the house be 
sold, although Mr and Mrs F wanted to put it in a satisfactory state of repair for sale. But their 
plans were affected first by illness and then by Covid. They were anxious to contact Barclays 
and were initially unable to do so but then found that the lender was unwilling to fairly 
consider their proposals.
Mr and Mrs F seem to have been particularly annoyed at being asked to complete an 
income/expenditure form and being told that they should pay most of their income towards 
the mortgage when they were preparing the house for sale. Given the stage of the pandemic 
I understand that Barclays were stretched for staff and it took a while for someone to 
respond substantially to Mr and Mrs F. Thats unfortunate but understandable in the 
circumstances at the time. If a customer is unable to pay off the mortgage when due I can 
understand that Barclays would want the consumer to complete an income/expenditure form 
to see what would be affordable to pay towards the mortgage if anything.
Barclays refused Mr and Mrs Fs application in August for a formal extension of the 
mortgage for 12 months but asked for further information from Mr and Mrs F. Ive read that 
letter and I dont consider Barclays requests contained in it to be unreasonable. Mr and Mrs 
F were looking to prepare the property for sale and sell it. Barclays asked some relevant 
questions related to that e.g. costs, timescales etc. Instead of simply agreeing a blanket 12 
months the lender was asking relevant questions as to why the 12 months was necessary 
but also holds open the possibility that if 12 months is necessary it might be agreed. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs F placed the property on the market in September 2020. 
Whilst I have sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs F found themselves in, I dont find that 
Barclays was unreasonable. In particular the letter of August was clearly attempting to elicit 
relevant information so that Barclays could consider what length of extension was 
appropriate. Until an agreement had been reached Mr and Mrs F were technically in breach 
of the agreement to pay off the balance of the mortgage by July and so in arrears but its 
clear that Barclays was trying to come to some solution with Mr and Mrs F. Im afraid that 
Covid not only caused problems for Mr and Mrs F but also for Barclays in responding to their 
concerns. Barclays has offered £25 compensation for that inconvenience which seems 
appropriate and I will leave it to Mr and Mrs F to contact Barclays if they wish to accept it. 
But, looking at the complaint as a whole, I cant fairly say that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs F and so, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman