DRN-3828456
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have failed to refund £2,200 she lost 
as part of a bank impersonation scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mrs M fell victim to a bank impersonation scam in February 2022. She received a call from 
someone purporting to be from Starling, who advised her to move her money into a safe 
account due to transactions appearing on her account that she did not recognise. Mrs M 
made a payment of £2,200 from her Starling debit card to an account with Binance on 
8 February 2022, where it was then taken by the scammer.
Starling refused to refund the money Mrs M had lost as it said she had authorised the 
payment. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the payment was 
unusual enough to have prompted an intervention by Starling, so he didnt think the bank 
ought to have prevented it in order to question Mrs M about its purpose and didnt consider 
Starling to be liable for the loss. Mrs M disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Im satisfied that Mrs M authorised the payment made to Binance. I appreciate she 
doesnt think that she did as she thought it was just going to another account with 
Starling to be kept safe. But even if she thought this was the case, she still consented to 
a payment being made from her account, where the transaction to Binance was 
authorised via the app with her biometric approval. So, even though she may not have 
entered her card details to make the payment, its not possible to say the payment was 
not authorised by her, as she at least knew that money would be leaving her account 
when she approved the transaction on the app. She consented to the payment using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by Starling (even if it was under the guise of 
moving her money to keep it safe), and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Starling should have done more to prevent Mrs M 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. But given the payment was only for 
£2,200, I dont think this would have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, 
such that it ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might have 
been at risk of falling victim to a scam. So, I dont think Starling were under any 
obligation to block the payment in order to question Mrs M about its purpose. 
I understand that some banks have started to block payments being made to Binance, 
and that Starling has also recently begun restricting payments being made to 
cryptocurrency platforms as well. But it had not made any such commitment at the time 
Mrs M made her payment in February 2022, and neither was it required to. So, I cant 
say it has done anything wrong by allowing the payment to Binance to be processed at 
the time.  
So, having considered the payment Mrs M made to Binance, Im not persuaded there 
was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Starlings fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Starling could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mrs M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mrs Ms debit card 
was used to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange platform. So, she wouldnt likely be able to 
make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company she 
paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I do not think Starling were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for 
Mrs M either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs M, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Starling can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman