DRN-3222363
The complaint
Mr B complains that Dynamo Cover Limited mishandled his breakdown insurance cover.
Where I refer to Dynamo, I include employees and others insofar as I hold Dynamo 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
In early August 2019, Mr B went online and took out breakdown cover with Dynamo. He 
agreed to pay the yearly premium from his bank account.
In August 2020, Dynamo renewed the policy and took a further payment of £28.00.
in August 2021, Dynamo renewed the policy and took a further payment of £41.80. On 20 
August 2021, Mr B contacted Dynamo, said he hadnt wanted the renewals and asked for a 
refund. Dynamo declined a refund. So Mr B complained to Dynamo. It turned down his 
complaint by a final response. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us in mid- October 2021. Hed like Dynamo to refund the 
premiums for 2020 and 2021 totalling £69.80.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Dynamo had acted fairly.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
In 2020 and 2021 there was no policy agreement in place at all because of the 
principles of offer and acceptance.
It cannot be correct that Dynamo can simply unilaterally take this money out of his 
account.
Under the original contract he agreed, albeit unwittingly, to auto-renewal. The fact 
remains that he was unaware of the 2 subsequent offers of renewal and did not 
accept them. The general rule is that acceptance of an offer will not be implied from 
mere silence on the part of the offeree and that an offeror cannot impose a 
contractual obligation upon the offeree by stating that, unless the latter expressly 
rejects the offer, he will be held to have accepted it. The principle authority for this is 
Felthouse v Bindley (1862). The rationale behind the rule is that it is unfair to put the 
offeree/consumer to time and expense to avoid the imposition of unwanted 
contractual arrangements. 
The auto renewal clause is unfair on consumers (certainly in the case of car 
breakdown cover insurance contracts) and could be challenged as being an unfair 
contract term under the Unfair Contract Clauses Act 1977 and the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the law, regulation and good practice. Above all, I have to decide 
whats fair and reasonable.
To find breakdown cover in 2019,  Mr B used a comparison website. From what Ive seen, 
the website gave details of the Dynamo cover including the following:
This policy will auto renew at the end of the term. You can opt out at any time by
contacting your insurer.
After clicking through to Dynamos website, Mr B wouldve seen the following:
We also operate an AutoRenewal feature where we will email you 21 days prior to
your policy renewal and automatically renew your policy unless you opt not to. You
can cancel this feature for free at any time by contacting our sales team.
The policy that Mr B took out was for one year. But the policy terms provided for automatic 
renewal for subsequent years as follows:
Renewal of This Policy
To ensure continuous cover, we operate an Automatic Renewal  21 days prior to 
the expiry of this policy, we will contact you about the renewal of this policy. You will 
either be informed that you will not be offered a renewal, and receive confirmation of 
the expiry date of your cover, or you will be offered a renewal. 
Our Renewal offer will include your policy documents, and details about your renewal 
premium. You will be able to cancel or amend the renewal by informing us, but if no 
action is taken then the policy will automatically renew and payment will be taken 
within 7 days prior to the start date of the policy.
Thats not an unusual policy term. And I dont consider it unfair. There was already a 
contract. So, notwithstanding the wording of offering and offer, I consider that the policy 
term provided for renewal of the existing policy unless the policyholder cancelled the 
renewal.
From its records, Im satisfied that, 21 days before the expiry or renewal date of 4 August 
2020, Dynamo sent Mr B an email saying that it would automatically renew the policy and 
take payment of the premium of £28.00. I consider that to have been a renewal in line with 
the policy terms. Whilst Mr B says he didnt receive that email, I consider that Dynamo had 
done enough by sending it. 
As it took payment from his bank account, I find it likely that Mr B knew from his bank 
statement that Dynamo had taken the payment. And he didnt object at the time. I also keep 
in mind what happened after the renewal the following year. So I find it likely that  in August 
2020, Mr B wanted the cover to continue and he hadnt cancelled the automatic renewal.
From its records, Im satisfied that, 21 days before the expiry or renewal date of 4 August 
2021, Dynamo sent Mr B an email saying that it would automatically renew the policy and 
take payment of the premium of £41.80. I consider that to have been a renewal in line with 
the policy terms. Whilst Mr B says he didnt receive that email, I consider that Dynamo had 
done enough by sending it. What happened after the 2021 renewal was that Mr B contacted Dynamo about the 
automatic renewals. As I would expect, Dynamo offered to cancel the policy from August 
2021 and make a refund of the premium for that year. If Mr B hadnt wanted the cover in 
2020 or 2021, I wouldve expected him to cancel the policy, take the refund for 2021 and 
probably complain that the hadnt had a refund for 2020. Surprisingly, Mr B didnt cancel, 
and the policy continued.
Im satisfied that Dynamo had done enough from the outset to draw Mr Bs attention to the 
automatic renewal. And Im satisfied that in 2020 and 2021, Dynamo had operated automatic 
renewal in line with the policy terms. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Dynamo to 
make any refund or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Dynamo Cover Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman