DRN-3811333
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the decision by American International Group UK Limited (AIG) to 
turn down her personal accident insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim for permanent disability under the policy after two separate road traffic 
accidents. 
AIG arranged for an independent medical examination (IME) to be carried out by a 
specialist. After receiving the report, AIG turned down the claim as it didnt think the 
accidents had caused Mrs B permanent disability. 
Mrs B brought a complaint to this service about AIGs claims decision, and her concerns 
about the arrangement of the IME. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AIGs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based on the medical evidence. She also didnt think AIG 
had made any errors in arranging the IME. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings. In light of the ongoing disagreement, the 
matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
The policy explains that permanent disability benefit will be paid when the insured has an 
accident which results in them suffering a bodily injury which causes permanent disability 
within 12 months of the accident. 
The policy defines permanent disability as:
A disability which is permanent, total and irrecoverable, as specifically listedin your table 
of benefits.
The policy defines bodily injury as:
An identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and 
solely by an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from sickness or 
disease.
The IME took place in September 2021 and was carried out by Mr Q (consultant orthopaedic 
and spinal surgeon). Mr Q noted that Mrs B had a very complex history involving diagnoses 
of chronic pain, connective tissue disorders and a long history of back, neck and shoulder 
pain. However, he thought that the symptoms Mrs B had suffered in the initial road traffic 
accident would have settled within three to six months, without long term effects. Mr Q also 
thought that the symptoms Mrs B had suffered after the second road traffic accident would 
have settled within six to 12 months. Whilst Mr Q acknowledged that Mrs B required surgery 
for her wrist and her spine, he said the reasons for the surgeries were not related to either 
accident. Mr Q concluded by saying that he could find no evidence that Mrs B had suffered a 
loss as a result of the two accidents from an orthopaedic perspective.
Its clear that Mr Q doesnt think Mrs B has suffered a permanent disability as a result of her 
accidents. Whilst I understand that Mrs B disagrees with Mr Qs opinion, I think it was 
reasonable for AIG to rely on Mr Qs findings. Mr Q is a specialist and carried out an 
independent assessment, and took into account all of Mrs Bs medical records before 
reaching his conclusions. Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable for AIG to turn down 
Mrs Bs claim based on Mr Qs findings.
After Mrs B brought her complaint to this service, she provided some comments from Dr H 
(consultant in pain management). He said that he could not comment on the causal 
relationship between Mrs Bs accidents and ongoing symptoms, but said that an MRI scan 
taken in January 2022 confirmed an anatomical reason for her pain symptoms in the lower 
limb (due to a disc bulge). Though as Dr H couldnt comment on the relationship between 
Mrs Bs accidents and her symptoms, this information doesnt support Mrs Bs claim.
The IME
When Mrs B raised concerns about the IME and Mr Q, AIG brought these concerns to 
Mr Qs attention so he could address these for her. That is what I would expect. 
Since then, Mrs B has advised this service of further concerns she has with Mr Qs report. 
Im not medically qualified and so it isnt appropriate for me to look through Mrs Bs various 
scans and medical records to see if Mr Qs comments were correct. I would therefore 
suggest that Mrs B contact the company that arranged the IME about any further concerns 
she has with the report. 
Mrs B also complained about the delay in arranging the IME, as well as the location of the 
IME. I see that AIG needed to obtain Mrs Bs up-to-date medical records for Mr Q to take 
into account, and these werent received until July 2021. The parties tried to arrange the IME 
the following month, but this didnt take place until September 2021 due to availability. I dont 
find that AIG caused any unnecessary delays here.
I note that when Mrs B expressed concerns about travelling for the IME, a home visit was 
offered as an alternative. I think that was reasonable, though Mrs B refused this. That 
decision of course, was up to her. 
Mrs B has also expressed concerns about the policy requiring there to be permanent 
disability within 12 months of the accident. However, this timeframe has had no impact on 
Mrs Bs claim. If Mr Qs report had been supportive of the claim, I would have expected AIG 
to pay this, even though more than 12 months had passed since the last accident. 
Conclusions
Overall, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for AIG to turn down the claim, based on the 
evidence available to it at the time (for the reasons explained above). I understand Mrs B wishes to obtain new medical evidence to support her claim. AIG has 
made it clear to Mrs B that she can provide her own medical report if she wishes. Mrs B 
should submit any new evidence to AIG for its consideration. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman