DRN-4377895
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Admiral Financial Services Limited (Admiral Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and it made his financial position worse as he had to 
borrow further to make his repayments.
Background
Admiral Loans provided Mr S with a loan for £7,500.00 in October 2021. This loan had an 
APR of 18.8% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,341.80, which included interest fees and charges of £3,841.80, was due to be repaid in 
60 monthly instalments of £189.03.  
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Admiral Loans had told us. And she 
thought that Admiral Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain in a bit more detail.
Admiral Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Admiral Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Admiral Loans provided Mr S with a loan for £5,000.00 in October 2021. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £189.03. 
Admiral Loans says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on payslips, a bank statement it obtained from Mr S and a credit search it carried 
out. And all of this information showed Mr S could afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr S has said the loan was unaffordable and should never have been 
provided to him in the first place.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Admiral Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Admiral Loans has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. Admiral Loans searches appear to show that Mr S did have some existing 
debts. However, Mr S debt total at the time of the applications wasnt unreasonable in 
comparison to his income and his commitments were relatively well maintained. 
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Admiral Loans obtained. Its also possible that 
Admiral Loans might have reached a different conclusion on the loan had it requested 
statements for Mr S other account. However, its clear that Mr S had provided the bank 
statements for his main account as this is where he received his salary and where his bills 
were being paid from.
Its clear that Mr S was transferring funds to another account. But as Mr S commitments 
were being maintained and he didnt appear to be excessively indebted, I wouldnt expect 
Admiral Loans to have requested the bank statements for Mr S bank account. There simply 
wasnt the level of concerning transactions on the statement Mr S provided to suggest that a 
more in depth review involving all of Mr S bank accounts was necessary. 
As Mr S had taken active steps to conceal the activity (by using a different account) hes now 
saying means his complaint should be upheld, I cant reasonably say that Admiral Loans 
ought to have been aware of it, or that it ought to have taken it into account. 
Given the amount advanced, the monthly payments and the lack of obvious inconsistencies 
in the information obtained, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks didnt 
extend into requesting bank statements for other accounts and Admiral Loans was 
reasonably entitled to lend to Mr S based on the information that it did have. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Admiral Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Admiral Loans treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman