DRN-1600596
 
Complaint
Miss N complains that Ford Retail Limited (Ford) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Miss N was sold a PPI policy in 2008 in connection with a hire purchase agreement (for a 
car) during a branch meeting.
The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Miss N lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ns complaint should be upheld. Miss N didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. I appreciate that Miss N will 
be disappointed by this outcome but it is of course for Miss N to decide whether or not to 
accept or reject my decision. I will now explain why I have reached this outcome.
Ford had to make it clear to Miss N that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before 
it could be applied to the account. Miss N is clear that she was told she had to take PPI in 
order to be approved for finance under the hire purchase agreement. She says she would 
not have taken PPI out if she had been told it was optional. Ford disagree. They say that that 
PPI was presented as optional and wouldnt have even been discussed with Miss N until 
after the finance to purchase the car had been agreed.
Of course I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what 
Miss N and Ford have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale 
to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement. Within this document there is a section for 
PPI. I note that this set out the cost of the PPI separately and Miss N signed separately to 
take PPI. If she hadnt signed this then I cant see that PPI would have been applied to her 
account at this stage. Of course this in itself doesnt mean that PPI was presented as 
optional as Miss N may still have had to sign for it even if she thought it was compulsory. But 
I do note that there is nothing on this document to suggest PPI was compulsory.Further, Ford have provided us with sample documents from the time of the sale. For 
example, a document headed customer insurance requirements. This presented PPI as 
optional in that it gave the consumer an option to accept or decline the recommendations 
made for PPI. And it would also have required the consumers signature. Miss N says she 
was never provided with this document (or the other documents) and that PPI wasnt 
discussed with her in this manner. She says the only document she received was the credit 
agreement.
Ive thought carefully about this, and while I appreciate Ford dont have the actual signed 
copy of this document, I do think its more likely that PPI was discussed with Miss N and a 
document similar to this would have been completed. This is because I note that Miss N only 
took out unemployment cover under the policy. This was one of the recommendations set 
out in the above-mentioned document. I will explain this more fully below.
Miss N has told us she had a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. 
According to the customer insurance requirements document, Miss N would have been 
asked about this. Miss N couldnt make a claim for this condition under the policy if she was 
off work sick. I think its highly likely that this is one of the main reasons that unemployment 
cover alone was selected.
Even if this was not the case, at the very least I think some discussion about the level of 
cover took place as clearly a decision was made to take unemployment cover alone. I think 
its likely that this discussion and decision would have taken place at the point at which Miss 
Ns requirements were being considered as set out in the customer insurance requirements 
which is where PPI is presented as optional and the different levels of cover are set out. This 
is also in line with how Ford have described their sales process. And I note Miss N also 
signed a declaration in the PPI section of the hire purchase agreement confirming she had 
read and understood the written details of PPI.
So, while I appreciate what Miss N has told us  and I can imagine it must be incredibly 
frustrating as Miss N was present during the sale and recollects events differently - I have to 
decide based on the evidence before me what I think is more likely to have happened. And 
based on the available to me, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional (as 
set out in the customer insurance requirements document) and was only added to Miss Ns 
account because she agreed to take it out (as set out in the hire purchase agreement). 
I appreciate that being told she couldnt get finance without PPI is Miss Ns main complaint 
point but as I have not upheld Miss Ns complaint in relation to this point, Ive looked at other 
elements of the sale to check if there is any other reason the policy may have been mis-sold. 
First of all Ive considered whether Miss N was eligible under the policy. This means looking 
at if there was anything that would have prevented Miss N from being able to make claim 
under the policy. Ive carefully considered the eligibility requirements in the policy document 
and based on Miss Ns age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied 
she was eligible.
Ford accept they advised Miss N to take PPI. And while Miss N disagrees, based on what 
Ive set out above, I think its more likely that Ford did advise Miss N to take PPI. Advising 
Miss N to take PPI would have meant that Ford needed to take steps to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for her. They wouldnt have needed to take these extra steps if they hadnt advised 
Miss N to take PPI. So in effect, I am holding them to a higher bar by accepting that they 
advised Miss N to take PPI. 
I dont know if Ford took all the steps they should have to check if the PPI was suitable for 
Miss N but I do think the policy was suitable for her. I say this because: 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Miss N may have 
been entitled to and would have done so for up to 12 months per claim.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests Miss N would have been affected by the 
terms in the policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful 
claim under the policy. For example, terms relating to unusual working arrangements. 
Miss N has mentioned a pre-existing medical condition. But she wouldnt have been 
affected by the exclusions in the policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
because these would only have applied if she had been sold sickness cover under 
the policy. As already mentioned, Miss N was only sold unemployment cover.
 
The cost of the PPI was set out clearly in the PPI hire purchase agreement and I 
havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI was unaffordable for Miss N.
 
Miss N could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Miss N, Ford also had to give her clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Ford gave Miss N wasnt all as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Ford mis-sold Miss N this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint against Ford Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman