DRN-3648426
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about a mortgage they held with The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Britannia. They are unhappy that they were charge an early repayment charge 
(ERC) that was for a higher amount than the total mortgage payments that would have been 
due over the remaining term of the interest rate product the ERC was linked to. They had 
been willing to make the remaining mortgage payments and feel that Co-op acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in charging the ERC. 
In settlement of the complaint they would like Co-op to refund the difference between the 
ERC charged and the monthly mortgage payments that would have been due until the end 
of the product term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with Co-op in 2007. The mortgage was arranged on an 
interest-only basis for just under £400,000 and had a term of 25 years. In 2019 the existing 
interest rate product that was attached to the mortgage was due to expire. They applied to 
Co-op for a new product to replace the existing one. They didnt ask for any advice when 
they did so. The product had a term to the end of October 2021 and there was an ERC 
linked to it. The ERC that would be charged was 2% until 31 October 2020 and 1% 
thereafter.
At the end of 2020 Mr and Mrs N were sent an annual statement for their mortgage. This 
detailed the repayment basis the mortgage was arranged on, the amount owing and a 
redemption amount as at the end of December 2020. It was detailed that the redemption 
amount, which was approximately £4,000 higher than the mortgage balance, included an 
ERC and the fees applicable if the mortgage was to be paid off.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs N decided to move home. They asked for a redemption quote for the 
end of June 2021. This detailed an ERC of £3,970.43. 
Mr N called Co-op and questioned the amount of the ERC, as the monthly payments to the 
end of the product term totalled approximately £2,500. He wasnt happy with the amount of 
the ERC and the matter was raised as a complaint.
Co-op responded to the complaint on 5 July 2021, but didnt uphold it. It highlighted that 
Mr and Mrs N had chosen the interest rate product without advice from it, but the 
documentation at the time and the two mortgage statements sent thereafter, had highlighted 
that an ERC was payable and how much it would be if the mortgage was paid off before 
31 October 2021. Co-op also highlighted that the product was portable to a new mortgage, 
but they hadnt chosen to look at that option. It was satisfied that Mr and Mrs N had been 
aware of the consequences of paying the mortgage off early and it hadnt done anything 
wrong in charging the ERC.
Mr and Mrs N werent satisfied with Co-ops response and referred their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained how an ERC was calculated and that he was satisfied that the ERC in 
this case was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to Co-op of early repayment. 
Mr and Mrs N said that they understood what the investigator was saying, however, they 
believed that if Co-op had accepted their offer to make the mortgage payments due after the 
mortgage was redeemed, it wouldnt have suffered a loss. They asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs N 
before the product was attached to their mortgage. They accepted that offer and the ERC 
that was associated with it. So when Mr and Mrs N paid off their mortgage, it was not 
unreasonable for Co-op to charge the ERC that they had accepted as part of the contract 
they had entered into.
As for Mr and Mrs Ns concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to customers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs N consider the ERC is unfair because it was for more than the amount of the 
interest that would have been paid to Co-op over the remaining term of the interest rate 
product. As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when 
an ERC is calculated, and it is not based on the amount of interest payable until the end of 
the product term. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
loss suffered by Co-op if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen 
evidence of how Co-op calculated the ERC, although it cant be made publicly available as 
its commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case 
was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. Therefore, I dont think the charge should be 
refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman