DRN-1057833
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
February 1997. Mrs C says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Mrs C bought the policy in February 1997 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
policy provided cover in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. It also provided 
a benefit in the event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs C, which isnt 
unusual given the sale took place over 22 years ago. As a result, HSBC hasnt been able to 
provide copies of Mrs Cs actual paperwork from the time of sale. HSBC also hasnt been 
able to tell us how the PPI was sold to Mrs C. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
HSBC says that Mrs C would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would have 
gained her consent before adding it to her credit card. Due to the time that has passed and 
the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt anything to say whether or not 
HSBC gave Mrs C a choice about the PPI. Businesses arent required to keep information 
indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that HSBC wouldnt have given Mrs C a choice or 
gained her consent, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. I cant assume something 
went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence that it did. So it wouldnt be fair for me 
to uphold this complaint on this basis.
Because of the limited information available from the time of sale, HSBC doesnt know 
whether it recommended the PPI to Mrs C. To be fair to Mrs C, Ive proceeded on the 
assumption that a recommendation was made. This places more responsibility on HSBC to 
show that the PPI was right for Mrs C. 
Having considered what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances in February 1997, the 
policy seems to have been right for her. She was eligible for the cover and I cant see that 
she would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as 
pre-existing medical conditions. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.Mrs C has told us she was self-employed at the time of sale, so Ive looked at whether this 
means the policy wasnt right for her. Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I 
dont think it would have been more difficult for Mrs C to claim than an employed person. So 
I dont think HSBC was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs C, HSBC also had to give her clear 
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that HSBC didnt give her all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mrs C from taking it out.
So overall, I think HSBCs recommendation was suitable and I dont think that any better 
information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before  22 November 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman