DRN-3477204
The complaint
Mr K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) 
unfairly handled his claim for escape of water (EOW) under his buildings insurance policy. 
Although some of the events described below were carried out by Mr Ks or RSAs 
representatives, Ill only refer to them in my decision. 
What happened
Mr K had buildings insurance with RSA. He said his elderly disabled mother lived with him in 
the insured address. 
At the end of May 2021 Mr K registered a claim for EOW from his first-floor bathroom. This 
had caused damage to his kitchen ceiling below. RSA appointed surveyors to validate the 
claim.
RSA reviewed Mr Ks builders estimate for £3,120 for the required work. It had been 
established that the leak was coming directly from the shower tray area. The builder told 
RSA that the whole ceiling would need to be removed. RSA authorised the estimate and 
then settled the claim with £2,770 cash (net of the £350 excess for EOW claims). 
Mr K said that after the repair work had been completed, water still leaked into the kitchen. 
So he registered a further claim for EOW with RSA on 20 July 2021. Mr K said he called out 
a plumber who said it was a new leak. RSA appointed a surveyor to assess the claim. The 
surveyor noted a hole in the kitchen ceiling in the same place as the previous claim. On 
inspection of the bathroom, the surveyor said that no repairs from the initial leak had been 
carried out. 
Mr Ks original builder provided a further estimate for the required repairs of £3,789. RSAs 
surveyor said he couldnt authorise the repairs as he hadnt found evidence of the original 
repairs being carried out other than works to the kitchen ceiling. And the moisture meter 
reading on the joists indicated no damp. The surveyor tried several times to speak with Mr 
Ks builder but said he was refusing to engage. RSA said that if the original repair works had 
been carried out, the builder wouldve noticed the new leak when the ceiling was taken 
down, as he wouldve been able to see the damage to the floorboards. 
Mr K was unhappy that RSA hadnt accepted his second claim. So he complained to them. 
Mr K emailed in August 2021 to tell RSA that the leak was new and recent. He said that the 
surveyor didnt seem to realise this was a different issue from the first claim. RSA told Mr K 
that they wouldnt be making any more payments to him. They said this was because if the 
ceiling had been taken down after the first claim, the new leak wouldve been noticed. 
Mr K sent several further emails to RSA in August 2021 asking for his claim to be 
reconsidered. He said that when his builder had carried out the repair work from his first 
claim, including the removal of the bathroom tiles, additional work which hadnt been initially 
visible, was required. He said hed submitted an additional estimate for the work of £1,250 to 
RSA. But that he hadnt heard from them since. He also said that when the initial work had 
been completed, water still leaked into the kitchen. And that another leak had then been 
identified under the bathroom floorboards. Although RSA told him his claim had been 
referred to their complaints team, they didnt reply to Mr K. So he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt it would be 
unreasonable to ask RSA to settle the second claim in full without any suitable documentary 
evidence that suggested why the new leak wasnt picked up by the builder when the ceiling 
was taken down initially.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
The second leak was a repeat of the first leak. This meant thered only been one 
incident, so the excess should only have been charged once. 
RSA repeatedly failed to respond. If theyd replied a solution couldve been found. 
Hed had to get the repairs carried out himself in consideration of his mums 
disability. He felt that RSA had forced him into this by not responding to his emails.
He said he had no knowledge of moisture readings. But felt that the photos received 
from the plumber showed that the floorboard wood was wet and rotten. 
He said he had no record of BVS offering £143 net of £350 policy excess. He felt that 
if they had offered this they must have accepted that the second leak was covered by 
their policy. He asked for a copy of the offer. He wanted to know in what respect the 
surveyor had disagreed with the estimate, and why he felt £493 would cover the 
damage.
He said he had no recollection of the call the surveyor said hed made to his sister on 
13 August 2021. He noted that the surveyor had said theyd told his sister they 
wouldnt be covering the claim as if the ceiling had been taken down, the new leak 
wouldve been noticed. 
Mr K said his builder did the work theyd invoiced for initially. And that theyd told him 
that the second leak was only discovered after two to three days when water seeped 
through and started dripping into the kitchen. 
He said he had no recollection of the surveyor calling him to tell him on 26 July 2021 
that the estimate submitted was too high. He asked why, even if theyd called, they 
didnt write to him to tell him what they felt the estimate should be. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how disappointing this will be to Mr K, but, having looked at all the evidence, Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I consider the merits of the complaint, Id like to confirm what our investigator has 
already told Mr K about his complaint to this service about RSAs handling of his complaint.As our investigator said, complaint handling itself isnt a regulated activity. Therefore this 
service cant comment on that part of his complaint. 
Mr Ks position is that the second leak was an entirely new leak which caused new damage. 
He says the second leak was only discovered after water starting dripping into the kitchen. 
He says that the damage from the old leak had been repaired.
RSAs position is that if the work that had been quoted for the first leak had all been carried 
out, that work wouldve revealed the second leak. They say theres evidence that that work 
hadnt been carried out. Therefore they rejected the claim for the second leak.
I first considered whether theres sufficient evidence that the second leak was a new leak. 
Unless I can find such evidence, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold the 
complaint.
Is there sufficient evidence that the second leak was a new leak?
I first considered the quote for the works that were required after the first leak. Mr Ks builder 
provided a quote dated 16 June 2021. This stated:
Works to be carried out in property kitchen ceiling to be removed of existing plaster and 
plasterboard replace kitchen ceiling completely with all new plasterboard and plaster 
including bonding throughout kitchen. Also to remove tiles in bathroom two courses up from 
ground level and replace and to re-grout fully.
Mr K said that the second leak was a new leak. And that his builder did all the work theyd 
invoiced for the first leak. He said that the second leak was only discovered after two to three 
days when water seeped through and started dripping into the kitchen. 
RSAs notes show that Mr Ks representative contacted them in late July 2021 to report the 
second leak from the shower tray. She explained that the flooring and the joists were 
completely damaged. And that the leak had stained the kitchen ceiling. At this point I 
understand that Mr K called out a plumber, who felt it was a new leak. 
I understand that RSA appointed a surveyor who visited the property on 22 July 2021. And 
that Mr Ks builder provided a second quote  dated 22 July 2021 - for £3,789 for the work 
they said was required after the new leak. This stated:
Works to be carried out on property. To repair leaking pipe in kitchen ceiling Coming from 
bathroom outlet. Also to treat all affected ceiling joists with antifungicide solution also to 
remove all existing affected floorboards due to dry rot. also to remove all existing 
plasterboard and plastering from kitchen ceiling and replace with all new plasterboard and 
plaster entirely. also to fully scrim tape wanted areas on plasterboard. 
Mr K said that even though his builder did the work invoiced for the first leak, the second 
leak wasnt revealed during the repairs. He said that tearing down the kitchen ceiling without 
any basis made no sense. He said the second leak was at the opposite end of his bathroom, 
a few feet away from the first leak. And that the second leak was discovered two or three 
days after having the first leak repaired. Mr K also said that the second leak wasnt picked up 
during the repair work for the first leak because it was at the opposite end of the bathroom. 
RSA said that the first leak had come directly from the shower tray area. They said that 
when they liaised with the builder about his initial quote he advised that the whole ceiling 
would need to be removed. They also said that the quote allowed for two rows of wall tiles, 
but that this was incorrect as the whole bathroom would need retiling. RSA said that when they attended to survey the second claim, they saw that a hole had 
been removed from the ceiling in the same location as the previous claim. They also said:
The bathroom was inspected and noted this was in the same condition as per our previous 
visit and no repairs had been undertaken. We again inspected the kitchen and identified 
some repairs appear to have been undertaken.
RSA also said that - apart from some works having been carried out to the kitchen ceiling - 
they couldnt identify that any other work had been undertaken. And that theyd tried to talk 
to the builder about the works but he had refused to engage, despite leaving several 
messages for him. They said that theyd declined the claim on the basis that all the works 
from the previous claim hadnt been carried out. And if they had, the new damage wouldve 
been evident. When RSA did eventually speak to Mr Ks builder on 18 August 2021, they 
told RSA that the work required after the first leak, and detailed in their quote, had all been 
done. 
The surveyors report from the July 2021 visit did suggest a settlement cost for works for the 
kitchen. RSA have confirmed to this service that they never made Mr K an offer for the 
second leak as they never accepted it. They said their surveyor always generated a scope 
after every visit but this didnt mean that the claim had been accepted. This explains why Mr 
K had no record of RSA making him an offer for his second claim.
Mr K said that the surveyor gave no explanation about why hed rejected the second claim. 
He said hed repeatedly requested an explanation about why the second claim had been 
turned down. He said that hed had no choice but to get the work completed at his own 
expense. Mr K also said that the plumbing company were happy to talk to RSA, but that they 
wouldnt speak to the surveyor.
RSA said that theyd told Mr K on 26 July 2021 that the quote for the second claim was too 
high and that they didnt accept it. And that they spoke to Mr K on 19 August 2021 and 
explained why they couldnt approve the second claim. They said theyd also told Mr Ks 
sister that the second claim wouldnt be covered on 13 August 2021. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence both parties have provided. 
From what Ive seen, RSA found evidence that the work quoted for after the first leak hadnt 
been fully carried out. I say this because RSAs surveyor noted that the kitchen ceiling hadnt 
been fully replaced. And they also noted that the bathroom tiling hadnt been replaced. 
Although Mr K said the work was carried out in full, Ive seen no evidence to dispute RSAs 
findings. 
Ive also seen that RSA tried to call Mr Ks builder to discuss the second quote. They did this 
because they felt the quote was too high for the required work. I consider that it was 
reasonable for RSA to discuss the required work with the builder, so that they could 
understand why they felt the work theyd quoted for was required. 
Our investigator has already explained that its Mr Ks responsibility as policyholder to prove 
that his claim should be covered under the terms of his policy. In this case, that means he 
would need to evidence that the damage hes claiming for under the second leak hasnt 
already been considered under the claim for the first leak. I consider that Mr K would also 
need to provide documentary evidence as to why the damage he said was caused by the 
second leak wasnt picked up when his builder carried out the required repair work after the 
first leak. 
For me to be fairly and reasonably able to uphold this complaint Id need documentary evidence which contradicts the insurers findings. Its Mr Ks responsibility, as the 
policyholder, to provide that information. This would usually be some sort of independent 
report from a specialist. But apart from Mr Ks testimony and the quote from his builder, Ive 
not been provided with anything of this sort to enable me to uphold this complaint. So I dont 
consider that Mr K has shown that the damage being claimed for under the second leak 
hasnt already been considered under the claim for the first leak. Nor am I satisfied that hes 
provided a suitable explanation for why the second leak wasnt picked up during the repair 
work for the first leak. Therefore I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K said he hadnt received formal notification of the basis on which RSA declined his 
second claim. He requested formal notification of that basis from RSA through this service. 
From what Ive seen, RSA did explain why theyd rejected the second claim. They first told 
Mr K that they didnt accept his builders quote for the second leak on 26 July 2021. And they 
explained to Mr K why they couldnt approve the second claim on 19 August 2021, after 
speaking to his builder the day before. RSA had also told Mr Ks sister that the second claim 
wouldnt be covered on 13 August 2021. Therefore, Im persuaded that Mr K has already 
been made aware of the reasons RSA rejected the second claim. And I dont uphold this part 
of his complaint. 
I next looked at the other part of Mr Ks complaint  the additional £1,250 estimate.
The additional £1,250 estimate
Mr K said that while his builder was carrying out the original repair work, including the 
removal of the bathroom tiles, he found that additional work that hadnt been initially visible 
was required. He said hed informed RSA and sent them and their surveyors an estimate for 
the additional work of £1,250. He said that he hadnt heard anything about this from RSA 
since. 
Our investigator asked RSA to get in touch with Mr K directly about this. But told him to 
contact this service if he hadnt heard from them in the next four weeks.
RSA told our investigator they couldnt find the additional estimate on either their file notes or 
their surveyors. So they asked Mr K to provide it again. Mr K provided the estimate for the 
additional work. It said: 
Works to be carried out on property kitchen area, to drill and inject a new chemical DPC 
every 3 inches at high and low level to prevent any further damp Affecting internal walls Also 
to form a silicone based barrier to stop damp penetrating any further to internal areas also to 
apply anti-fungicide treatment to all affected areas to stop Any mould growth 
The total quoted was £1,215.
On 4 April 2020, our investigator asked RSA what they were doing in relation to the 
additional estimate, as Mr K had told him he had yet to hear from them about it. 
RSA told this service that the additional costs had previously been declined. They said their 
surveyor had attempted to speak to Mr K about this. But that Mr K had made it clear that he 
wouldnt speak to them. 
Mr K said that RSA never tried to speak to him. And that he hadnt declined to speak to 
them. 
As our investigator noted, I would expect RSA to consider this additional claim in line with the terms of his policy. From what Ive seen, RSAs surveyors initial report following their 
first assessment of the original leak damage stated that there was no potential for none-
visible damage. But as Ive seen no evidence from either party other than the surveyors 
report and the additional quote, Im not in a position to make a decision on this part of the 
complaint, which did not form part of Mr Ks original complaint to this service, and for which 
RSA has provided no information. However, I can say that I would expect Mr K to engage 
with RSA in order to understand what they need from him in order to resolve his claim. 
Therefore I would expect him to talk to RSAs surveyors about this part of his claim. If, after 
speaking to RSAs surveyors about this, Mr K cant reach an appropriate conclusion, he 
should raise a new complaint with RSA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman