DRN-3415424
The complaint
Mr M complains that Experian Limited mis-sold its Credit Expert service. 
What happened
Mr M has told us he paid a monthly fee for Experians Credit Expert service for around 12 to 
18 months. Last year, Mr M complained to Experian after he found accounts werent 
appearing on his credit file. Experian looked at Mr Ms complaint and said he had failed to 
give all his previous addresses when registering for its services. And Experian said some 
businesses will report information to other credit reference agencies. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Experian had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels the Credit Expert service provided by Experian was mis-sold. Mr M 
has pointed out not all his credit commitments were showing on his Experian credit file. As a 
starting point, Experian has confirmed it uses the information provided by a consumer when 
signing up for its services as the basis of a its Credit Expert service and credit report. 
Experian asks customers to provide all previous addresses theyve lived at in the six year 
period before signing up. Experian says Mr M failed to complete this step which impacted 
the credit commitments shown on his credit report. 
Mr M has pointed out his previous address was noted on his credit file as a linked address, 
even before Experian updated its systems. But Experian explains that whilst linked 
addresses are given on a credit report it requires customers to confirm their residential 
history as part of the registration process in order to provide complete information. I dont 
think Experians acted unreasonably by requesting a full six year address history. And I 
accept that the information recorded will be impacted if a full address history isnt supplied 
when signing up for the Credit Expert service.
Mr M has explained that a credit card he has with a business Ill call T wasnt previously 
showing on his credit file. But Ts entry was included once Mr Ms full address history was 
updated by Experian. In my view, this serves to demonstrate that Experian needed Mr Ms 
full address history in order to include all the relevant information on his credit file. 
A utilities supplier Mr M uses doesnt report information to Experian so its entry doesnt 
appear on his report. But its up to the utility provider to decide whether to report Mr Ms 
account to Experian. As the account isnt reported to Experian it cant show it on Mr Ms 
credit file. 
Mr M recently forwarded the investigator evidence to show a credit card provider had 
rejected his application following a credit search. But the evidence comes from a different 
credit reference agency, not Experian. And the credit card provider lists a range of factors it 
considers when deciding whether to proceed with an application. I havent seen any 
evidence that applications have been declined on the basis of inaccurate or incomplete 
information on Mr Ms Experian credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded that Experian mis-sold its Credit 
Expert service or that it provided inaccurate information on his credit file. As Im satisfied 
Experian dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman