DRN-3593495
The complaint
What happened
Ms R complains that she believes a pension policy she holds with The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited is a Whole of Life policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In late 2021, Ms R complained to Prudential about her pension policies. She said there was 
confusion around the type of policies she held, and she believed she was sold an 
investment-based insurance policy by an Assurance company. Ms R wanted access to her 
funds because shes experienced financial hardship. In response, Prudential said: 
Ms R holds two pension plans with Prudential, as shown on her annual statements. 
Ms R cant access her pension benefits until she turns 55  so, she cant access her 
funds until January 2028.
It couldnt find any evidence that suggested it had misled Ms R about the type of 
policies she had. 
It was sorry for not sending copies of Ms Rs policy applications, as she requested. It 
had a copy of her original policy application but not a subsequent form for her second 
plan.
It also apologised for difficulties Ms R had reaching Prudential by phone. Prudential 
offered Ms R £75 compensation. 
Ms R disagreed with Prudentials response, she reiterated she was told in 2016 that changes 
were being made to the funds she was invested in. And her policy was sold by a Life 
Assurance Society (that later became Prudential) so she didnt believe she had a pension 
policy. Ms R referred her complaint to our Service to review.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, saying he thought it 
was sufficiently clear Ms R had applied for a pension. And because she was not yet 55 years 
old, Ms R was not entitled to access her pension benefits. Our Investigator thought 
Prudentials offer of £75 fairly compensated Ms R for the inconvenience caused by its 
actions. Ms R disagreed, saying:
The documentation she has states she has a life insurance fund - she has a fund 
with investments and possibly a pension plan.
The application contained incorrect employer details, and states life assurance. 
You dont have a medical assessment for life assurance, which she undertook as 
part of the application. 
Prudential used a trading name that she thought was wrong.
So, this complaint came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Prudential has said Ms R holds two pension policies:
1. Her plan ending 516 was set up in January 1995, which is a unitised personal 
pension set up to accept contracting-out payments from the Government, 
providing benefits at any time between the ages of 55 and 75.
2. Her plan ending 718 was set up in April 2001. This is a Unitised Personal 
Pension providing benefits at any time between the ages of 55 and 75.
Ive reviewed the application form Ms R completed when taking out her first pension policy, 
alongside Ms Rs comments about it. I agree with her that not all of the application is legible, 
as it is an old document that was scanned to create a digital record. But from what I have 
seen, I think it was sufficiently clear it was an application for a pension plan. I understand 
Ms Rs comments about the name of the firm that sold her pension, but the application form 
is entitled personal pensions and theres multiple legible references to it being a pension 
policy including a declaration, signed by Ms R, that says she intended to become a member 
of the personal pension scheme. Whilst theres no copy of the second policy application form 
set up in 2001, the statements and policy information available suggests Ms R has two 
pension plans. Ive found nothing in the available documentation to suggest Ms R holds an 
insurance policy. Similarly, Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms Rs policies are not correctly 
held with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, as shown on its letters and 
statements sent to Ms R. 
Some of Ms Rs pension fund is invested in the Prudential With-Profits Pension fund, and its 
not unusual for a pension plan to be invested into a With-Profits fund. Ms R has referred to 
Prudentials letter of October 2016 causing confusion, but this also refers to pension plan 
holders and theres nothing to suggest Ms R held a different sort of policy, such as a life 
insurance policy, in this letter.
Overall, Im satisfied the policies Ms R complained about are pension policies. The rules 
applying to these policies say she cannot access her policy benefits until she turns 55. So, 
whilst I was sorry to learn of the financial hardship Ms R has faced, I cant ask Prudential to 
allow Ms R to access her pension benefits before she turns 55. 
Prudential has acknowledged some delays in sending Ms R a copy of her policy application 
form and said it had long wait times when Ms R tried to call them. Having considered the 
likely impact on Ms R, which did not impact the outcome of her complaint, I think Prudentials 
apology and offer of £75 compensation fairly acknowledges the inconvenience caused by 
Prudentials actions. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman