DRN-3821113
The complaint
Mrs T complains she had no notice that her mortgage was transferred to TSB Bank plc and it 
hasnt adhered to an agreement she had with the previous lender (Cheltenham and 
Gloucester) to change to interest only. Mrs T also says its unfair that TSB didnt accept her 
repayment vehicle  the sale of another property  to change the mortgage to interest only 
when she enquired about that more recently. And she doesnt think its fair that TSB reported 
to credit reference agencies that her mortgage account is in arrears, as she believes she is 
ahead on interest only payments. 
What happened
In 2007 Mrs T took a mortgage with Cheltenham and Gloucester (C&G) for approximately 
£300,000. The mortgage was set up on a capital repayment basis over 25 years. Mrs T says 
she agreed with C&G that her mortgage would be changed to interest only. Shes provided a 
copy of a letter from C&G dated 5 June 2013 as evidence of the enquiry she made in that 
regard. The letter said C&G was unable to convert Mrs Ts mortgage until it receives a 
suitable repayment plan, and then went on to list the repayment plans that were acceptable 
at the time.
Mrs Ts mortgage was owned by TSB from 2013. TSB has explained how this came about. It 
says:
When the banks split in 2013 some live mortgage accounts stayed with C & G and 
some were transferred to us the new TSB. Miss T's mortgage was one of these.
However, the repayment method for Mrs Ts mortgage remained capital repayment. Mrs T 
says she believed it had been changed to interest only, so she made payments accordingly 
 sometimes making overpayments. And that led to the account falling into arrears.
Transaction records provided by TSB show that the mortgage first started to fall into arrears 
in 2015 and that the arrears were capitalised in April 2016. But later in 2016 the account 
started falling into arrears again. TSB has also provided copies of missed payment/arrears 
letters sent to Mrs T dating back to 6 March 2015. TSBs contact notes indicate that Mrs T 
requested that her mortgage be switched to interest only in February 2017, but TSB has 
never agreed to the switch because it says she didnt fulfil its criteria.
Mrs T complained to TSB in 2021. In its final response letter dated 23 April 2021 it 
addressed the issue of it not accepting her request to change her mortgage to interest only. 
It said Mrs T didnt meet its lending criteria. It explained that the combined value of the 
property and land she proposed to use was £226,000, but it would only use 80% of that 
value - £180,800 to assess whether the property was acceptable as a repayment vehicle. 
And that wasnt enough to repay the then outstanding balance of £211,879.61. TSB also 
explained that Mrs T failed its criteria because her mortgage was in arrears.
Mrs T responded to TSBs final response letter on 6 May 2021. She said shed already 
gained agreement from C&G in 2013 to change her mortgage to interest only. So, since then 
shed made interest only payments with some capital repayments. And when TSB took over 
the administration of her mortgage it did so as if the mortgage were still on a capital 
repayment basis. She said, as that was incorrect TSB also incorrectly showed her account 
as being in arrears. And as there are 10 years remaining on the mortgage her repayment 
vehicles will exceed the amount required to repay her mortgage when that becomes due.
In its final response letter dated 31 July 2021, TSB said C&Gs letter dated 5 June 2013 
confirmed it would not convert Mrs Ts mortgage to interest only until a suitable repayment 
vehicle was in place. The letter went on to outline contact between Mrs T and TSB about the 
subsequent arrears on the mortgage account and later requests to switch the repayment 
method to interest only.
Dissatisfied with TSBs response, Mrs T asked us to consider her complaint. TSB did not 
give us consent to consider the merits of Mrs Ts complaint because it says it was brought 
too late.
Our investigator found that parts of Mrs Ts complaint were brought too late. She explained 
that, under our rules, complaints need to be made within certain time limits  within six years 
of the event complained about, or three years (if longer) from when the complainant became 
aware or ought reasonably to have become aware they had cause to complain. 
With regard to TSB not honouring C&Gs acceptance of Mrs Ts request to switch the 
repayment method to interest only in 2013, our investigator said she had until 2019 to 
complain (six years from 2013). And as Mrs T would have become aware the mortgage had 
not been changed from the mortgage statements she received soon after, the three year part 
of our rule would not allow her additional time. As Mrs T did not complain to TSB until 2021, 
our investigator concluded that shed complained too late.
Our investigator also thought Mrs Ts complaint about TSBs ownership of her mortgage was 
made too late. She thought Mrs T didnt complain within six years from the event  2013  
and she thought Mrs T would have known TSB had taken ownership of the mortgage 
because it sent her letters and statements soon after 2013. So, again, the three year part of 
our rule wouldnt extend the time she had to complain.
In the case of both complaint points our investigator hadnt seen anything to suggest 
exceptional circumstances prevented Mrs T from complaining in time.
Our investigator thought we can consider Mrs Ts complaint about TSBs consideration of 
her more recent enquiries about changing her mortgage repayment method to interest only 
and TSBs reporting of arrears to credit reference agencies. And she went on to consider 
those complaint points. But she thought TSB had assessed Mrs Ts request to change her 
repayment method to interest only fairly and she thought TSB had reported Mrs Ts arrears 
to credit reference agencies fairly.
Mrs T didnt agree. She said she believes we can look at her complaint about TSB not 
adhering to C&Gs acceptance of the mortgage repayment method conversion because that 
issue was raised several times before 2019. Mrs T made several other points which I have 
thought about but only become relevant here if we can consider the complaint points our 
investigator has said are out of time. As Mrs T didnt agree with our findings, her complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
I wrote to both parties on 26 October 2022 with my decision about which parts of Mrs Ts 
complaint we can consider. Ive now gone on to consider the merits of those complaint 
points.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my decision dated 26 October 2022, I found that we have the power to consider Mrs Ts 
complaints about:
TSB not accepting her proposed repayment vehicle  the sale of another property  
to allow her to change to interest only  a request she made in 2017.
TSB reported arrears to credit reference agencies  applicable from six years to the 
date she made her complaint to TSB.
TSB didnt accept Mrs Ts proposed repayment vehicle  the sale of another property  to 
allow her to change to interest only  a request she made in 2017
As TSB declined Mrs Ts request in 2017 and she complained about that in 2021, I think she 
did so in time  within six years  so Ive considered that part of her complaint.
At the time of Mrs Ts request, the mortgage account was in arrears by several months. And 
in April 2016 TSB had capitalised the arrears on the account  again, by several months. 
After Mrs Ts request the arrears continued to increase steadily to the date the complaint 
was referred to us.
During a review with a TSB mortgage adviser in December 2017, Mrs Ts request for a 
temporary conversion to interest only was refused. Mrs T was unhappy about that decision 
and complained but the decision wasnt overturned. The next time the subject of interest only 
is mentioned in the contact notes is January 2020. The notes say Mrs T called to say she 
thought she was paying on an interest only basis and wanted her credit file to be corrected. 
The notes then show that TSB investigated that matter and found that interest only hadnt 
been agreed.
In its final response letters of 2021, TSB said Mrs T proposed to use the sale of a second 
property and some farm land, with equity of £226,000 as a repayment vehicle to get an 
interest only mortgage. It said TSBs policy is to accept 80% of the equity, which equalled 
£180,800 when considering the value of a repayment vehicle. But the mortgage balance was 
£211,879.61. In addition, it said Mrs T doesnt meet its criteria for an interest only mortgage 
because of the arrears on her mortgage account. However, it acknowledged that it had 
agreed, in 2017/2018, to send Mrs Ts mortgage account to a specialist team to review and 
couldnt see that it had done that. But even if the specialist team had reviewed Mrs Ts 
mortgage, TSB said it wouldnt have agreed to the interest only request because of the way 
the account was handled at the time.
Ive considered TSBs criteria with regard to acceptable repayment vehicles. That says TSB 
will use 80% of the equity in a second home/buy to let property, as long as the equity in each 
individual property is over £50,000. Farm land is not specifically mentioned but the criteria 
states that commercial properties are not acceptable. So, I dont think farm land is an 
acceptable repayment vehicle under TSBs criteria.
I havent seen specific mention in TSBs criteria that it shouldnt consider requests for 
conversion to interest only where the mortgage account is in arrears. But I would expect that 
any lender would carefully consider that matter. Even if it would, in principle, accept a 
conversion request where a mortgage was in arrears, I think it would be reasonable for TSB 
to expect that, either the equity also covered the outstanding arrears, or that an affordability 
assessment or payment track record showed that the arrears would be repaid before the end of the term. From what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs T demonstrated that to TSB. In particular, 
her payment track record indicated that her arrears would not decrease, and 80% of the 
equity in her other property wasnt equal to or greater than the amount required to repay her 
mortgage and the outstanding arrears.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys mortgage market review of 2014 would have allowed TSB 
to forgo its usual criteria for allowing Mrs T to convert her mortgage to interest only. But only 
if it thought that was in her best interests. 
It appears that, in 2017, Mrs Ts request was for a temporary switch, while most of the other 
evidence Ive seen suggests shes wanted and wants now to make a permanent switch. I 
think its reasonable that in either event TSB might have been concerned that switching to 
interest only wasnt in her best interests. 
Mrs Ts payment history doesnt suggest that, had TSB allowed a temporary switch, she 
would have been able to make the switch back to repayment and repay the outstanding 
balance within the remaining term. Ive not seen evidence of a potential change in 
circumstances made known to TSB when it declined that request in 2017 that would have 
suggested a switch back to repayment would have been affordable. Mrs T did make TSB 
aware of an accident from which she expected compensation and expected to recover to 
start full time employment. It appears that a lump sum of £5,000 was made after that, but 
that amount wasnt enough to repay the arrears. The subsequent payment history doesnt 
indicate that Mrs Ts income increased to allow her to make full payments. And the arrears 
continued to increase.
I also think it would have been reasonable to think it may not have been in Mrs Ts best 
interests to change the mortgage permanently. In that regard, I can see where TSBs criteria 
is in line with the best interests of the borrower. TSBs criteria is that 80% of the value of 
other property should cover the outstanding amount owed. And, as I understand it, thats in 
part at least because theres no guarantee that property values stay the same or increase. 
Should the value of the property Mrs T has in mind to repay her mortgage decrease, she 
may not be able to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. However, its more likely that 
the outstanding mortgage could be repaid in that scenario if is reduced by capital 
repayments. So, because it wasnt clear that moving Mrs Ts mortgage to interest only was 
in Mrs Ts best interests, I think its reasonable that TSB applied its usual criteria.
I accept that Mrs T says she believed her mortgage had been converted to interest only and 
that was why she paid the amount she did to her mortgage account. And she says that 
means there shouldnt be arrears on her mortgage account. Ive already explained that I 
cant consider whether her mortgage should have been converted to interest only in 2013  
that part of her complaint was made out of time. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that TSB agreed to a conversion to interest only over the period that I can consider. So, if 
her payment history does reflect her belief that TSB agreed to an interest only conversion, I 
dont think TSB is at fault for that. In any event, I dont think the account was converted 
following Mrs Ts request in 2017 (or any time since) so I havent seen anything to suggest 
the arrears recorded by TSB are incorrect.
Mrs T has sent in recent evidence suggesting an increase in the value of her second 
property. Ordinarily, I would expect a lender to assess any new request, taking up to date 
valuations into account and, in principle, thats what TSB should do now. However, I know 
that the level of the arrears on Mrs Ts mortgage account is a substantial factor in TSB 
deciding what action it takes next. So, it may decide other action is more appropriate in the 
current circumstances of Mrs Ts mortgage account and her wider financial situation.Given the above, I think TSB has considered Mrs Ts request in line with its interest only 
lending criteria. And, given that I dont think its clear that switching to interest only would 
have been in her best interests, I think it was reasonable for TSB to apply its criteria. I 
havent seen anything to suggest TSB hasnt considered her request to convert her 
mortgage repayment method to interest only fairly.
TSB reported to credit reference agencies that her mortgage account was in arrears
As I said above, I cant consider whether Mrs Ts mortgage should have been converted to 
interest only in 2013 because that part of her complaint was made out of time. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that TSB agreed to a conversion to interest only over the 
period that I can consider. So, I dont think TSBs record of the arrears on Mrs Ts mortgage  
is incorrect  in essence, it is equal to the accumulation of the shortfall in the payments    
Mrs T did make and those she should have made under the mortgage agreement (her 
contractual monthly payments).
TSB is required to accurately report Mrs Ts payment history to credit reference agencies. 
That includes where her payments are not equal to or greater than her contractual monthly 
payments. I understand Mrs T doesnt think thats fair, given that she thinks her mortgage 
account should be on an interest only repayment basis. But I havent seen that it is set up 
incorrectly and I think TSB should report accurately, based on the repayment method and 
resulting contractual monthly payment. So, I havent seen that TSB has reported incorrectly 
to credit reference agencies with regard to Mrs Ts mortgage account.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman