DRN-3773618
The complaint
Mr R complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly applied a withdrawal to his 
account  meaning that his bank statement was wrong.  And hes unhappy about how he 
was dealt with in the branch when trying to sort this out.
What happened
In early March, Mr R withdrew £700 from his account, using a cheque in branch.
When he next received a statement, Mr R was concerned to see what he thought were 
errors on the statement.  So he returned to the branch to query the entries which had been 
made.
Mr R spoke to a member of staff at the counter, who told him that the £700 withdrawal hed 
made in early March had been incorrectly processed as a card withdrawal  not one made 
by cheque.  To correct this, HSBC had re-credited the £700 withdrawal and re-processed to 
correctly show it had been made by cheque.
Mr R complained to HSBC that his statements werent correct, as they showed more 
payments and receipts than there had been.  And he was unhappy that this was discussed 
in a public area of the bank.  He also asked for £200 - which had been credited to his 
account without his permission when hed made a previous complaint - be debited by HSBC.
HSBC investigated Mr Rs concerns and sent him their written response.  They agreed the 
service provided by the branch had fallen below the standard theyd expect and that the 
counter staff shouldnt have discussed Mr Rs statement in front of other customers.  They 
credited Mr Rs account with £50 compensation for this, and for their original mistake in how 
his withdrawal was posted to his account.
But HSBC said it wasnt possible to change the information on Mr Rs statement because it 
reflected the debits and credits which had been made  even though they were the result of 
the banks error.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator noted both parties agreed HSBC had made mistakes.  So she focused her 
consideration on whether HSBC paying £50 into Mr Rs account was fair recognition of the 
impact that had had on him.
The investigator concluded that, whilst its usual for businesses to pay compensation in this 
way, HSBC should have dealt with Mr R differently.  She noted Mr Rs previous complaint 
also related to HSBC talking about his account in front of other customers.  And he wasnt 
happy that the compensation hed received for that complaint had been directly credited to 
his account.  
The investigator said this would have made HSBC aware of Mr Rs concerns.  But theyd not 
taken them into account in dealing with this complaint.  For that reason, she thought it was 
fair to increase Mr Rs compensation to a total of £150  which she said HSBC should pay 
him by cheque.
HSBC accepted the investigators view, although they said its not possible for them to make 
a cheque payment.  But Mr R said he thought he should receive more compensation.  So 
Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint.  But I dont think HSBC need to pay him 
any more than the additional £100 theyve already accepted they should.  Ill explain why.
Before I do that, I should clarify that Im only looking at the complaint that arose in March 
2022  not at the previous complaint Mr R made, which concluded several years ago with a 
compensation payment to him.  
We dont expect businesses to be perfect.  Mistakes happen in every area of life.  And its 
not the case that we award compensation just because a customer has had something go 
wrong in their dealings with a financial business.  Rather, we direct a business to pay 
compensation if we think they made a mistake  and that mistake had some negative impact 
on their customer.
All parties agree that Mr Rs withdrawal of £700 was captured incorrectly on HSBCs system.  
And I think its fair for HSBC to compensate Mr R for that  as well as for not dealing with his 
queries somewhere private.  
But I dont agree with Mr R that his statement is wrong.  It shows that a card withdrawal for 
£700 was made.  Thats not right.  But the next two entries  reversing that withdrawal and 
entering a cheque withdrawal were made to correct that error.  And theyre an accurate 
record of the transactions that occurred.  So I dont think HSBC were wrong to say the 
statement shouldnt be corrected.
Putting things right
While I know Mr Rs unhappy with the contents of his statement, Im not directing HSBC to 
pay any more compensation for this, because Im satisfied the statement entries are 
accurate.
And, while I acknowledge he was unhappy at what he found when he received the 
statement, I think the impact on Mr R was limited.  He wasnt aware of what had happened 
before this.  And he received an explanation from HSBC immediately he discussed what had 
happened with the cashier.  Nor was there any point when Mr R didnt have the available 
funds he thought he did.
So Ive only considered the impact of the initial error and that Mr R wasnt able to raise his 
concerns privately.  In most circumstances Id agree that £50 compensation was enough for 
this.  And that it was appropriate for HSBC to pay this by crediting his account.
But I agree that it wasnt sufficient in this case, because this was a complaint Mr R had made 
before and one to which HSBC had no regard when dealing with this matter.  For that 
reason, I agree with our investigator that its fair for HSBC to pay a further £100 
compensation.  And, while I dont HSBC need to take back the £50 theyve already credited to Mr Rs 
account, I think the additional £100 payment should be made in a way he feels comfortable 
with.  HSBC have said they cant issue a cheque.  So I think, if Mr R chooses to accept the 
award, HSBC should contact him before they process it to agree how it will be paid.
My final decision
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay him £100 compensation, in addition to the £50 theyve already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman