DRN-1602746
The complaint
Miss Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didn't do enough to help her before it decided to 
default her credit card account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Miss Y experienced financial difficulties due to ongoing legal issues that impacted her 
income. Miss Y has confirmed her other income was intermittent. HSBC didnt put a 
payment plan in place as it was concerned Miss Y wasnt able to manage her priority 
debts. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC wasnt in a position to put a 
payment arrangement in place. 
Businesses have to treat customers who experience financial difficulties positively 
and sympathetically but that doesnt mean HSBC had to suspend interest. HSBC has 
waived interest and later refunded around six months of interest. Whilst HSBC 
ultimately took the step of defaulting Miss Ys credit card, Im satisfied it did treat Miss 
Y positively and sympathetically. 
HSBC could have stopped charging interest sooner but I agree with the investigator 
that Miss Ys account would most likely have defaulted in any case. As Miss Y wasnt 
in a position to maintain the repayments for her credit card Im satisfied HSBC acted 
fairly by deciding to default the account. 
HSBC has agreed to pay Miss Y £200 because of delays when dealing with her 
account. Im satisfied the settlement of £200 fairly reflects the service provided to 
Miss Y. I havent found the delays or service provided impacted the overall decision 
to default the credit card. 
Putting things right
Following the investigator's view, HSBC agreed to pay Miss Y £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I'm satisfied £200 is fair in all the circumstances, so I'm not telling 
HSBC to increase the award or take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss Y 
£200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman