DRN-2235199
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004 to cover a store credit account. Mrs B 
was sold the policy during a phone call.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. This is because I think its unlikely AXA gave 
Mrs B enough information for her to make an informed choice. I think this would have made 
a difference. 
I say this because its unlikely the PPI policy would have paid out for claims related to any 
pre-existing medical conditions affecting Mrs B. And its likely she did have one such 
condition at the time of the sale. 
This was a chronic long-term condition which is known potentially to lead to a number of 
serious complications. I think Mrs B would have thought there was a good chance that, if she 
needed to claim, the insurer would link the claim to her underlying illness. So I dont think 
shed have agreed to take the PPI, if shed been told about the exclusion in the policy.  
AXA says it thinks the medical condition would have been unlikely to lead to a claim, and 
has pointed out that Mrs B would still be covered for claims due to other medical conditions 
and for unemployment. However, what Im looking at is how likely Mrs B is to have taken the 
PPI, if shed been given the full information  as she had the right to make an informed 
choice. And, for the reasons given, I dont think she would have taken the PPI. This means 
she paid for something she wouldnt otherwise have taken, and that was of limited use to 
her. 
My conclusion is that the PPI was mis-sold.    
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman