DRN-3820441
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited has decided not to refund him after he was the 
victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Mr S was called by what he thought was his third-party bank account provider, and told his 
accounts werent safe. But Mr S had been speaking to scammers who had spoofed the 
telephone number of his bank.
The call appears to have come within the context of some disputed card transactions on Mr 
Ss third-party bank account. So when he received the call from the scammers, he said it all 
seemed plausible.
Mr S also says the callers knew his name, profession, both his current and previous 
addresses and that he had accounts with the third-party bank and with Starling, including the 
balance on his Starling account. They said his mobile phone had been hacked and thats 
why his Starling account also wasnt safe, and hed need to move his money to stop the 
fraudsters from taking it (like they had on his third-party bank account). He also received a 
spoofed text message which appeared to be from Starling, confirming a new account was in 
the process of being set up for him.
Mr S then followed the scammers instructions. He set up a new payee (to an account in 
someone elses name). He then made nine payments totalling £14,999. He completed all 
transactions in just over an hour, bringing his account balance to zero. 
At one point the scammers said they would call Mr S back and when they didnt, Mr S called 
Starling and discovered hed been the victim of a scam.
When Mr S reported the events to Starling it considered how he had been scammed in light 
of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM).
 
Starling said that it displayed warnings when Mr S made these payments. Below is the text 
of two warnings Mr S would have seen:
Are you being told how to send this payment? Anyone explaining what buttons to
click, or asking you to read the text on this screen out loud is a fraudster. If you
continue, you could lose all the money sent.
He then had to answer a handful of questions about the payments. A further warning was 
displayed which said the following:
Fraudsters will tell you how to answer these questions to scam you. A genuine
organisation will never do this. A bank or any other organisation will never tell you to
move money to a new safe bank account. Fraudsters can make phone calls appear
to come from a different number. Are you speaking with who you think you are? If in
doubt you can call us on [number].
Starling said Mr S did not take sufficient steps to check the payment was genuine, including 
following the banks fraud prevention warnings. It said Mr S gave false answers to the online 
security questions it asked. It recovered £17.72 from the recipient bank account and this was 
returned to Mr S. But it didnt think it was responsible for Mr Ss remaining losses.
One of our investigators looked into things. He said he thought Mr S did have a reasonable 
basis for believing he was initially speaking with his third-party bank and why his money in 
his Starling account also wasnt safe. He thought Starling should refund Mr S his money, 
plus 8% interest from the date Starling declined the complaint  less any amount already 
recovered. 
The investigator concluded:
- The third-party bank number had been spoofed to make it appear genuine and this 
was a sophisticated element of the scam which made it seem plausible that he was 
speaking with his bank.
- And the spoofed text message from Starling also made it appear genuine. 
- The call with the scammer was convincing  they built rapport with Mr S and had 
several persuasive details about him including, his name, that he held accounts with 
two banks, his account balances and they followed the banks usual security 
procedures with him.
- The scammer convinced Mr S his phone had been hacked and then coached him 
through the online security steps to process the payments to a safe account to 
protect his money  this included being told what the warnings would say and how 
to move past them. 
Starling disagreed. It said:
- At the time of reporting the scam Starling asked for a copy of the text the scammers 
sent him  he said he was told to delete this and this made him suspicious. But he 
had taken a screenshot. Starling said this demonstrates that Mr S was suspicious 
and not convinced by the legitimacy of the caller but he decided to go ahead anyway.
- Mr S was told a new account (in his name) would be opened, to transfer his funds to. 
But Mr S was then given a different payee name at a different bank to make the 
transfer which contradicts what he was told.
- Mr S should have raised concerns about the account destination and if he had, he 
would have seen different behaviour from the scammers which could have exposed 
the scam.
- Mr S wasnt honest when completing the online questions prior to making the 
transfer. And he was told by the scammers it was hackers preventing him from 
transferring his funds. But Mr S had created new payees in the past and made 
transfers from his account so he should have been aware of the processes. 
- Mr S had been given numerous warnings about this type of scam. And it made him 
aware that it would never ask a customer to transfer funds to a safe account, and it 
gave advice on what to do in this scenario. 
- Mr S cancelled one of the payments and this shows he had doubts before making the 
payments. 
- Starling did everything it could to try to protect Mr Ss funds. It gave him enough 
information to prompt him to contact the bank, but he chose to ignore this. The investigator considered the additional points from Starling but these didnt change his 
mind. He said: 
- Although Mr S may have had some suspicions at the time, taking a screenshot of the 
spoofed text when he had been told to delete it, wasnt enough to say Mr S didnt 
have a reasonable basis of belief. There was enough other activity to reasonably 
persuade Mr S he was genuinely speaking to his bank. 
- Mr S said he was told the money had to go to another account before being 
transferred to a new account with Starling. This was added to the pressures and 
stress the fraudsters would have put Mr S under, that his money wasnt secure and 
he needed to act quickly. 
- He acknowledged that Mr S gave different reasons for making the payments  when 
prompted by Starlings online questions. But he believed Mr S had been given many 
reasons for thinking his account wasnt secure so his answers werent unreasonable 
in this context. 
- He remained of the opinion that Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing he was 
talking to his bank. 
Starling responded to say it didnt agree that it should be held entirely responsible for Mr Ss 
losses. It said it had effective warnings in place which reflected the exact scam that Mr S fell 
victim to. But said it would be prepared to offer a 50% refund to Mr S plus the 8% interest to 
settle the complaint. 
Mr S considered the offer but asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. And so, the 
complaint was passed to me consider.
I asked Mr S for some additional information about the disputed transactions on his account 
to which the original scam call was linked. Whilst it isnt entirely clear what happened - there 
are transactions to a retailer which Mr S says the scammers called him about and he said 
these werent genuine. These were later refunded by the retailer, which supports what Mr S 
has told us and that the scammers had persuasive information about him. Its likely that 
there were other interactions between Mr S and the scammers prior to this call which 
account for those transactions taking place  for example Mr S may have clicked on a link or 
inadvertently shared his card details. But importantly this all persuaded me that the scam 
Mr S fell victim to was sophisticated and persuasive. Mr S also provided evidence of the 
spoofed number that he received the original call from. 
Prior to writing my final decision, I contacted Starling to say I agreed with the investigators 
findings. I noted that there were some points that Starling had raised about Mr Ss actions 
that might, in another set of circumstances, have meant he didnt have a reasonable basis of 
belief. But I felt considering the spoofing of the third-party bank telephone number with the 
spoofed text from Staling, plus the personal information the scammers had about Mr S, and 
the disputed transactions on his third-party bank account  that overall he did have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with his bank and that he was acting to protect 
his money. I recommended that Starling refund Mr S in full. 
Starling responded to say it didnt agree. It said:
- Although I had said the customer was coached through the payments process and 
thats why he selected the payment options that he did  its unfair for Starling to 
reimburse Mr S in full, as it gave specific effective warnings directly related to the 
scam.
- If the customer had answered the questions correctly then it could have prevented the scam. But the warnings it did provide should have been a red flag and wouldve 
been effective if he had stopped what he was doing. Which included: being told what 
buttons to click or reading out texts on the screen and that he shouldnt make the 
payment.
- It also said it agreed that Mr S did have a reasonable basis of belief but didnt think it 
was fair to hold Starling 100% liable, without any onus on the customer for ignoring 
the clear warnings.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved I have carefully considered everything again before 
reaching my final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having considered this, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Starling should have refunded the money Mr S 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
- Starling should fairly and reasonably refund 100% of the money Mr S lost. 
- Its not clear how Mr S would have used the money, if Starling had intervened, so 
Starling should also pay interest at the rate of 8% on the money from the date the 
claim was declined to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Starlings further representations about the warnings it gave and 
whether Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing the interaction with the banks to be 
genuine. But it has not persuaded me to reach a different view. I am not persuaded that Mr S 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for it to choose not to reimburse him under 
the terms of the CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mr S did not act 
with gross negligence. Ill explain how Ive come to those findings below.
Starling, at different points in its submissions to our service, has agreed that it didnt provide 
effective warnings, as well as saying, it thought it did meet its objectives regarding the 
warnings. And, in its latest responses, it agreed that Mr S did have a reasonable basis for 
believing he was genuinely speaking with Starling, despite saying previously that he didnt. 
And Starling said it didnt think it was fair that it should be held liable for all of Mr Ss losses. 
So, throughout the course of reviewing this complaint its not clear what position Starling has 
taken here. 
Despite this position and to avoid confusion, Ive gone on to consider the exceptions to 
refunding a customer under the CRM code in full below. 
Did Starling provide Effective Warnings?
The warnings, whilst relevant to the type of scam Mr S was falling victim to, werent 
impactful enough in the circumstances of the fraud. They didnt set out or bring to life 
what the type of scam Mr S was falling victim to (an impersonation /safe account 
scam), would typically look or feel like that would have a positively affected Mr Ss decision making. It is important to remember that Mr S was genuinely convinced he 
was talking to his third-party banks fraud department and then Starling, and was unaware 
that fraudsters could spoof numbers. To have a sufficient impact, the warning had to 
overcome the belief or break the spell and trust that the scammer had been able to 
generate verbally. So, I dont think the warning was impactful or specific enough here 
given Mr Ss situation at the time, and I can see why it would not have had a material 
impact on preventing the fraud.
Im also mindful that the warning doesnt include steps to ensure that Mr S reasonably 
understood the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment which is a 
requirement of an effective warning under the Code.
On this basis Im not satisfied that Starling can rely on the exception not to refund on the 
basis that Mr S ignored an effective warning.
Did Mr S have a reasonable basis of belief?
Mr S was a victim of a sophisticated scam. He was contacted on what appeared as a 
genuine bank telephone number and text message. Mr S was unaware numbers could be 
spoofed. The scammer also appeared genuine to Mr S as they knew his third-party banks 
security processes and also knew of Mr Ss account with Starling, as well as he personal 
details and his account balance. And it appears as though some disputed card transactions 
were also carried out as part of this scam, which made it particularly persuasive that his 
accounts were under threat. So, I can see why, Mr S genuinely believed that he was talking 
to what the thought was his bank.
And As Mr S believed he was talking to his bank, and was being told that 
there were attempted transactions on his account (and there had been on his third-party 
bank account) via a hacked mobile phone, I can understand why Mr S had a reasonable 
basis of belief that his accounts were at risk, would need be frozen and a new account set 
up.
So, given the scam Mr S had fallen victim to, Mr S believed he had been 
speaking with his third-party bank, I can see why Mr S didnt consider he had a cause 
for concern, when it came to the payee name being different, for example, and overall he 
had a reasonable basis of belief when making the transfers.
Ive also considered the points Starling has raised about Mr S not selecting the right reasons 
for the payment. But as we know scammers will often coach consumers through the 
payment process - in part to make the call seem like its genuinely from the bank and in part 
to avoid giving the consumer time to read the warnings at all. But even if Mr S had given 
different answers to the questions, Im not persuaded he would have seen a different 
warning. Starling hasnt said what warnings Mr S would have seen, if that had been the 
case. And it appears the warning he did receive would have been the most applicable to the 
scam he was the victim of anyway. And Ive already considered those warnings werent 
effective.
Ive thought about the warnings Mr S was presented with and I appreciate why Starling 
thinks these ought to have given Mr S cause for concern but I think by the time Mr S was 
presented with the warnings he was so hooked in by the scammers - that they were 
genuinely the bank and he needed to act quickly to secure his money - that I dont think it 
was unreasonable, in these particular circumstances, for him to have followed the scammers 
instructions to move past the warnings. As I say the particular circumstances of this scam 
were that Mr S could see that transactions had already been made on one of his accounts without his knowledge or consent which would have reasonably heightened his need to co-
operate with the bank and act quickly to secure his money. 
Putting things right
I direct Starling to 
- Refund Mr Ss remaining losses,
 
- Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date it declined to fully refund Mr S to 
the date of settlement 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to refund Mr S as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman