DRN-3232516
The complaint
Mr P complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) failed to places his order to 
purchase some shares through its platform.
What happened
On 28 July 2020 Mr P tried to place an order to purchase 200 shares in a US company, 
which I will refer to as Company A, through IIs platform. He tried to place an order to 
purchase at market best on two occasions but both attempts failed. It was important to Mr P 
that he purchased these shares in the Nasdaq market session that day as he was aware that 
Company A was set to announce its second quarter financial results after the close of the 
market. So he called II to place the order manually just after 20:00. II explained on the call 
that there was a major technical issue with its custodian which meant that all US and 
Canadian online trades were being rejected but it agreed to place the order manually for 
him. II provided Mr P with a quote of between $68.17 and $68.18 and confirmed that the 
order had been placed. However, II then sent Mr P a secure message just before 21:00 
explaining that it was unable to complete the order. 
Mr P was unhappy that II had confirmed the order had been placed only to be later told that 
it hadnt been accepted. So he complained to II.
II looked into Mr Ps complaint and offered £50 credit to his trading account in recognition of 
the experience he had. II said it understood Mr Ps frustration around his order not going 
through and it apologised for the technical issue with its custodian. II acknowledged that the 
share price had since risen but said that Mr P had the option to place the order again, but he 
failed to do so. As such, it wasnt persuaded Mr P had suffered a loss and it wouldnt look to 
compensate for a potential gain missed. 
Mr P didnt accept IIs offer and so he referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review. 
An investigator at our service reviewed Mr Ps complaint but felt IIs offer was fair. In short 
she said:
The major technical issue with IIs custodian was beyond IIs control.
Even if II had put a message on its website to make investors aware of the issue, he 
would have still been unable to place the order with II.
The offer is fair because its terms of service says it doesnt guarantee that trading 
online will always be available and II quickly notified Mr P that the order couldnt in 
fact be placed.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said his complaint was not regarding II
not being able to execute the trade as he understood the custodian relationship. Rather, it 
was that II held out that his order had been completed on the call. 
The investigator responded to Mr Ps comments. She said that it wasnt disputed that II told 
him on the call that the order had been placed. But it wouldnt be fair to ask II to honour the 
original share price just because II gave him this incorrect information. This is because II 
would never have been able to execute the order at that price. 
Mr P responded by explaining that the secure message was received three minutes before 
the Nasdaq market closed and so he didnt have an opportunity to place the order 
elsewhere. He said he may have had an opportunity had II called him instead as he doesnt 
always check his secure messages. 
He also added that he had subsequently purchased 200 shares in Company A on 17 
September 2020 when the price was lower than the opening price after Company A had 
announced its results. This was at a price of $74.35 but this was higher than the price 
quoted by II during the call on 28 July 2020. As such, he felt he should be compensated the 
difference between what he paid and what he ought to have paid on 28 July 2020. 
As Mr P remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
IIs terms of service explained that it offers trading on a best endeavours-basis, but it doesnt 
guarantee execution:
3.5 When we accept your order, we will use reasonable endeavours to carry it out. 
However, we will not be liable to you for any loss or expense you suffer if we are 
unable to carry out an order for whatever reason (other than as a result of our 
negligence, fraud or wilful default) or where there is a delay or change in market 
conditions before the transaction is completed.
IIs terms of service also explained that its reliant on third parties  in Mr Ps case the 
custodian  to place trades on international markets. And so the ability to execute such 
trades is subject to a third partys service levels:
3.15 Trades placed by us on your behalf on international markets are executed via a 
third party and as such are subject to their service levels. As a result, late reported 
trades can be booked to your Account at any time prior to the start of the next trading 
day on the relevant market. It is possible that an order that has been confirmed as 
cancelled or expired may be subject to a late reported fill. If you are in any doubt as 
to the status of a particular trade, then please contact us by telephone.
It would appear that Mr P accepts that it was IIs custodian technical issue and not IIs error 
that prevented his order from being executed. However, he feels that II misled him over the 
phone by confirming that it had executed his order. And as such, it should compensate him 
for the additional cost of purchasing the shares in Company A at a later day. Whilst I agree 
that II did provide him with misleading information, I dont think Mr Ps logic around 
compensation is fair or reasonable. I say this as IIs error didnt cause the financial loss hes 
looking to recover. Even if II hadnt confirmed the order had been placed, Mr P still wouldnt 
have been able to purchase shares at the original price on IIs platform that day. This is 
because II has confirmed that the technical issue with the custodian wasnt fixed until the 
following day. Ive also considered Mr Ps points regarding II letting him know so close to the market 
closing that it couldnt execute his order. IIs internal records show that it made multiple 
attempts to place Mr Ps order prior to the market closing with its final attempt made at 20:44 
which was rejected at 20:45. I can see that II sent the secure message to Mr P twelve 
minutes later at 20:57. Whilst I think II could have notified him slightly sooner, Im not 
persuaded this would have made any difference to his ability to place an order elsewhere, as 
Mr P says he wasnt constantly checking his secure messages. 
I also understand Mr P thinks II should have called him instead of sending him a secure 
message, as he says a call would have allowed him further time to place the order 
elsewhere. Ive thought carefully about this and whilst I agree a call may have given him time 
to place an order elsewhere, this isnt guaranteed and would be dependent on whether 
another platform was able to purchase the shares on his behalf. Its not clear whether Mr P 
is a customer of another investment platform to have enabled him to place an order 
elsewhere but regardless, I dont think II was required to call Mr P rather than 
communicating through secure message. I say this as this was the agreed method of II 
contacting him. This was explained in IIs terms of service:
23.6 Where you have provided us with a valid email address, we will provide you 
with important documentsby sending you an email notifying you that such 
documents have been made available on your secure pages of our Website.
So whilst I agree that there has been a loss of expectation, Im not persuaded IIs mistake 
means it should honour the price originally quoted as trading was unavailable when this 
price was live. 
I have, however, considered the impact the misinformation has had on Mr P. I fully 
acknowledge that the loss of expectation would have caused Mr P some distress and he had 
the inconvenience of having to place the order again. But I think the £50 compensation II has 
offered to recognise this is fair and reasonable. I say this as II quickly made Mr P aware that 
his order had in fact not been executed - within an hour of providing the misinformation. And, 
but for IIs error, Mr P would have always had to replace his order once the technical issue 
with the custodian was fixed. 
So taking into account all of the above, I dont think II needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited as the offer it has already made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman