DRN-2817169
The complaint
Mr D complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has refused to insure his cat, H, for 
urinary problems.
What happened
Mr D says that the exclusion is due to H having a urinary condition due to stress over five 
years ago. As this was a one-off he feels that it is wrong to describe it as a as a pre-existing 
condition and to exclude cover for this. 
Pinnacle says that it is satisfied that the exclusion has been placed correctly having 
reviewed Hs medical history and considered this against its underwriting guidance. As Mr D 
disclosed conditions in the application for Hs cover, the policy was underwritten in line with 
Pinnacles underwriting guide and exclusions placed at the point of sale. By underwriting the 
policy from the outset, Pinnacle says it can tell the customer at the start if there is anything it 
wouldnt cover.
Pinnacle says that it is not unusual for insurers to decide what cover they want to provide, 
which may be based on what happened prior to the start of the cover. This didnt mean it 
necessarily believed H was currently suffering from these conditions but that it had chosen 
not to provide cover for this should it occur in the future. Whilst it does not cover pre-existing 
conditions, the underwriting process considers the risk of a wider range of conditions 
occurring in the future which may be indicated by a pre-existing condition or symptom. For 
this reason, wider reaching exclusions may be placed.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think Pinnacle had acted unfairly by 
adding the exclusions to Mr Ds policy as this was in line with its underwriting criteria. He 
therefore didnt uphold the complaint or ask Pinnacle to do anything further. 
Mr D disagrees with this and the case has therefore come to me to make a decision. He 
says that the urinary tract is probably the number one cat health issue and the situation 
would be like a human being refused health insurance on the grounds theyd had a viral 
infection in the past.
Mr D has also said in response to the investigators view that he had been advised differently 
in conversation with Sainsburys (the introducer for Pinnacle in this case). As this is a new 
complaint about the sale of the policy as opposed to being part of the original complaint 
about the underwriting decision by the insurer, this will need to be dealt with in a separate 
complaint to the seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain my reasons below. 
I have to decide whether Pinnacle fairly and reasonably excluded certain conditions on Mr 
Ds policy. When claims are made under policies, insurers have to consider claims in line 
with the policy conditions. Mr Ds pet insurance pet insurance policy sets out that Pinnacle 
would not pay veterinary fees for any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that 
you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet, before this policy started.
I can see that Pinnacle contacted Mr D when the policy was taken out as he had disclosed 
that H had had signs or symptoms of injury or illness, or been unwell, either now or at some 
time in the past. It advised that it would be individually medically underwriting the policy and 
would advise if there were any conditions for which H would not be covered. 
So I think Mr D was made aware from the outset that Pinnacle may apply some exclusions 
to the cover in light of the information provided, which I think was fair and reasonable. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr D was given any advice to the contrary.
I have looked at Hs medical history which shows that he had an examination and treatment 
for bladder and urinary problems in September 2015. In June 2016, H had further tests, 
examination and treatment including a therapeutic diet for bladder and urinary issues and 
idiopathic cystitis was noted. 
The underwriting decision sets out that due to H having cystitis, urinary conditions should be 
excluded. Once the underwriting process had been completed, Pinnacle contacted Mr D to 
inform him that it would not accept claims for urinary problems.
The majority of pet insurance policies will say that theres no cover for pre-existing 
conditions. Pinnacle is entitled to decide what risks it wants to cover, and it wont normally 
cover something which is already present. Ive considered what Mr D has said about Hs 
past medical issues being common in cats. However, this doesnt affect whether Pinnacle is 
entitled to exclude cover for such an issue. Although Hs condition may have been some 
time ago, past conditions are something which may indicate a greater risk of similar issues 
arising in the future. So I cant say Pinnacle has acted unreasonably in adding the exclusion 
to Mr Ds policy for H.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but I can't fairly say that Pinnacle 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman