DRN-3721408
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has 
handled claims made under her legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss M made a claim under her policy to pursue legal action against her 
employer for disability discrimination, failure to make reasonable adjustments and breach of 
contract. DAS passed the claim to their panel solicitors, who Ill refer to as D.
D conducted a legal assessment on the merits of the claim and concluded that it didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success - which is a requirement for cover under the policy. Based 
on this advice, DAS declined the claim.
Shortly after, Miss M contacted DAS to let it know that her claim had been passed to a 
senior colleague at D who believed the breach of contract claim did have reasonable 
prospects. Miss M raised a complaint to D as she felt the first solicitor hadnt considered her 
claim correctly. This was considered by a Partner at D, who agreed with the senior colleague 
that reasonable prospects existed. As such, the claim was accepted.
In February 2020, Miss M contacted DAS again. She said her claim had been passed back 
to the first solicitor again, who subsequently confirmed that there were no reasonable 
prospects. DAS informed Miss M shed need to raise a complaint to D, but Miss M reminded 
DAS that shed already done this.
Around this time, D sent a letter before claim to Miss Ms employer.
In April 2020, Miss M informed DAS that she had a new element to her claim for unlawful 
pension deductions. DAS passed this on to D and asked for their comments, but there was 
no response. DAS emailed D several times throughout August and September asking them 
to contact Miss M, with no reply.
Miss M raised a further complaint about D, which DAS passed on to them in October 2020. 
Shortly after, D responded to say theyd been weighing up whether to pursue the claim in the 
Employment Tribunal or the County Court, and that theyd contact Miss M later that day. 
Miss M did receive a call and was subsequently given a new solicitor at the firm.
In January 2021, Miss M was put at risk of redundancy. D emailed DAS to ask if a new claim 
could be set up as it appeared to be a separate matter to the one being pursued, which DAS 
agreed to.
In May 2021, DAS logged a complaint about Miss Ms dissatisfaction with how her claims 
were being handled. As part of its investigation, it asked D for an update on the claims and 
despite chasing, it didnt receive a response for over a month. When D responded it said that 
due to the complexity of the case it required counsel to draft the particulars of claim and 
assess the prospects  which DAS agreed to.
In July 2021, DAS issued its complaint response advising that it was satisfied it had handled 
the claim correctly and it couldnt take responsibility for Ds conduct  which should be raised 
to them directly and to their regulators.
Counsels opinion was provided to DAS in September 2021 and concluded that there was no 
breach of contract  and therefore no reasonable prospects existed. It valued the claim at 
around £3000, but that an appropriate settlement would be in the region of £1,000 to £1,500, 
given the position on prospects.
Miss M didnt accept counsels opinion. She said there were factual inaccuracies and that 
they hadnt been provided with all the relevant evidence. DAS made enquiries with D, who 
disagreed.
They said the evidence Miss M referred to was in relation to her work hours in 2020 / 2021 
and would have no bearing on counsels opinion on the breach of contract occurring in 2019. 
D said this information had purposely been kept separate as they were waiting for counsels 
advice in order to determine how they should approach the 2020 / 2021 hours which form 
part of the redundancy claim. They later asked for this issue to be dealt with as a separate 
claim for breach of contract.
Based on counsels advice and Ds explanation, DAS withdrew funding from the 2019 
breach of contract claim. Miss M was unhappy and raised a complaint, which DAS 
responded to in October 2021 and didnt uphold.
In November 2021, D sought a further counsels opinion on both the 2019 and 2020 / 2021 
breach of contract claims. The second barrister was also of the opinion that the 2019 claim  
as well as the 2020 / 2021 claim  didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
Miss M didnt accept this advice either. She said it was incorrect and didnt include relevant 
information. She also raised concerns over the conduct on her redundancy claim saying that 
D had issued the ET1 without her having sight of it and theyd made several errors. DAS 
made enquiries with D who said Miss M had approved the ET1 prior to it being submitted.
In December 2021, Miss M raised a further complaint to DAS for maladministration. She said 
DAS were aware of Ds poor handling of her claims and failed to intervene. Furthermore, it 
had denied her request to use a solicitor of her own choice.
In January 2022, Miss M was advised that her discrimination claim no longer enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success. On speaking to DAS, she was told that cover had now 
been withdrawn on all aspects of her claims. This was particularly distressing to Miss M as 
she was under the impression her redundancy claim was being covered and she was due to 
attend a preliminary hearing.
A week later, DAS identified its error and confirmed that cover was still in place for the 
redundancy claim. But around that time, D confirmed it was no longer prepared to act for 
Miss M due to a breakdown of trust and confidence. DAS offered Miss M the option to 
choose her own solicitor and said if they believed the discrimination element of her claim to 
enjoy reasonable prospects it would reconsider cover.
DAS issued a complaint response in February 2022. It acknowledged its error in withdrawing 
cover for all elements of the claim and said its correspondence about instructing a solicitor of 
Miss Ms choice couldve been clearer. It offered £100 compensation for what went wrong.
Miss M didnt accept this, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
asked DAS to increase the compensation to £250 which she considered to be more reflective of the stress caused to Miss M. DAS agreed, but Miss M didnt. So the complaint 
was passed to me and I issued the following provisional decision.
My provisional decision 
I recognise Miss Ms strength of feeling regarding her complaint and I appreciate the 
circumstances of her legal dispute have been stressful. Shes provided a great deal of 
information regarding the background of her complaint and whilst I may not have mentioned 
everything, I want to reassure her that Ive read and considered everything shes told us.
But I dont intend to respond to every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail she 
would like. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Solicitors conduct
Firstly, I should be clear that I cant look into the conduct of a firm of solicitors. Nor do I 
consider DAS to be responsible for a firm of solicitors actions.
As such, if Miss M is concerned about Ds actions, advice, or conduct on her claims, she 
should follow Ds complaints procedure and escalate it to the relevant regulator / 
ombudsman service.
Prospects of success
Its a requirement for cover under the policy that a claim must have reasonable prospects of 
success which are defined as having at least 51% chance of winning.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.
In this case, two separate counsels opinions have been sought on Miss Ms breach of 
contract claims. And both barristers were of the opinion that prospects are less than 51%.
I appreciate Miss M believes there are errors in the advice, but I havent seen any evidence 
of this. Having considered the legal assessments, Im satisfied theyre properly written and 
well-reasoned. And theyve been obtained from suitably qualified lawyers. So I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that DAS shouldnt have relied on either opinion.
DAS claims handling
Having reviewed DAS conduct on these claims, I can understand why Miss M feels it has 
failed to intervene over Ds poor conduct on the case.From the outset of these claims in 2019, Miss M informed DAS of the problems she was 
having with D. I can see that DAS has consistently passed on these concerns to D directly  
which is in line with what Id expect it to do. But after a certain point, when it was clear the 
situation wasnt getting better, I wouldve expected DAS to do more. In particular there have 
been several occasions, as evidenced in the timeline provided above, where D wasnt 
responding to Miss M or DAS  which shouldve prompted DAS to take matters more 
seriously rather than just continuing to send chaser emails.
It was clear from Ds eventual responses that matters were moving very slowly. For 
example, they sent the letter before claim in February 2020 and the next update was in 
October 2020 where D said it was weighing up whether to pursue the claim in the ET or CC. 
DAS made no enquiries as to what D had been doing on the claim for eight months and 
according to Miss M, D werent doing anything. Whilst this is a complaint to be directed to D 
itself, I think DAS had enough information to be concerned over the claims progression and 
to take further action.
I can see that Miss M asked DAS in July 2021 whether she could use a solicitor of her own 
choice. And DAS advised that it needed to establish the current position on the claims from 
D first. It obtained this information, but the discussion on changing solicitor wasnt revisited 
until January 2022. Given Ds conduct, or lack thereof, I think DAS shouldve done more 
here. I appreciate Miss M would only have freedom to choose her own solicitor under the 
policy when court proceedings became necessary, but if she wasnt at this stage with her 
claims at that time, DAS couldve considered instructing another panel solicitor.
Furthermore, whilst Im satisfied DAS is entitled to rely on counsels advice, as explained 
above, I cant see from the file that Miss M was properly informed of her right to challenge 
this advice with her own counsels opinion at her own cost. Given that Miss M had strong 
concerns over the accuracy of the opinions, I think it wouldve been the best way forward 
and its DAS obligation to ensure Miss M is aware of her options following the rejection of 
her claim. I can see that it has subsequently been mentioned in more recent 
correspondence, but I cant find any record of Miss M being informed of this at the time cover 
was withdrawn.
And finally, DAS incorrectly informed Miss M that cover had been withdrawn on all her 
claims in January 2022. I agree with our investigator that this would no doubt have caused 
Miss M a great deal of distress. And whilst I acknowledge DAS clarified its mistake within a 
week, Im mindful that this was around the time Miss M was undergoing the tribunals 
timetable and attending a preliminary hearing. So the impact this wouldve had on her would 
no doubt be significant in the circumstances.
Overall, I dont think £250 truly reflects whats gone wrong here for the reasons Ive set out 
above and Im inclined to award compensation of £500.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision. 
In particular, she disagrees with much of the content set out in the whats happened 
section above. I must be clear that this section sets out the factual background of whats 
happened  not my opinion on it  which Ive based on a full review of correspondence 
between Miss M, DAS and D. So whilst she may consider that some things are incorrect, Ive 
set out the facts as I see them. 
For example, Miss M says its incorrect that D were weighing up whether or not to pursue the 
claim in the Employment Tribunal or the County Court. She says D were always clear the claim would go to the County Court. However, a call note within DAS file dated 13 October 
2020 says:
O is the case handler and is aware of this case. D are due to respond to the insured 
very shortly (by this afternoon). O advises that they have been weighing up whether 
this claim should be brought in the ET or the CC. 
Another example, Miss M says she did not approve the ET1 prior to it being submitted. She 
says she didnt see it until after. To be clear, Ive not said she did  rather, Ive said D told 
DAS she did.
Its for this reason that, with all due respect, I dont intend to respond to Miss Ms points 
made on the what happened section of my decision. Im satisfied Ive captured the 
chronology for both sides perspective using the copies of correspondence Ive been 
provided with  not all of which Miss M wouldve had access to.
Regarding my actual decision, Miss M has raised the following points:
Her claim was 100% sure to win, but D didnt understand the law regarding 
workplace agreements and unions, nor did they carry out the necessary research. 
They failed to include the most important elements of the claim and refused to do 
anything about it. And failed to send all information to counsel.
Neither counsels opinions can be relied upon as both barristers made exactly the 
same errors and used case studies that bore no relevance to the claim, which DAS 
and D failed to investigate. 
DAS accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already explained in my provisional decision, I cant look into the conduct of D  as 
theyre a firm of solicitors which we dont have jurisdiction over. I appreciate Miss M feels 
they didnt have the expertise to deal with her claim and made errors, but this is a complaint 
she needs to direct to them. 
Ive considered her arguments that counsels opinions shouldnt be relied upon. But as Ive 
already explained, its not my role to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Im satisfied 
that DAS can rely on a legal opinion provided that it isnt obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes.
Miss M says its obviously wrong as it relies on irrelevant case law. But this doesnt make it 
obviously wrong as its not something a layperson would know  rather, its a legal matter 
that Im not able to make a finding on. So whilst I appreciate her concerns, I remain satisfied 
DAS were entitled to rely on the legal advice it obtained. 
I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed but having considered her further submissions my 
decision on the complaint remains unchanged and I see no reason to deviate from my 
recommended award.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing DAS Legal
Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss M compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman