DRN-1544890
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the amount he has been offered by Legal & General Insurance 
Limited (L&G) to settle a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G took out a home insurance policy with L&G. On the policy, he specified his laptop as a 
high value item with an insured value of £4,500. 
Mr Gs laptop was stolen from a car. The rear window of the car was smashed and items 
were stolen from the boot. L&G paid Mr G £1,000 for the stolen laptop to settle the claim. 
This was the maximum it would be pay for items stolen from vehicles.
Mr G complained to this service, as he felt it was unfair for a £1,000 limit to be applied when 
he had specified his laptop as a higher value item. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint, as she thought the claim had been settled in line with the terms of the policy.
As Mr G did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to consider is whether L&G has been fair in settling the claim for £1,000, 
given that Mr G had insured the laptop for a specified value of £4,500. 
Im aware that Mr G is also concerned that he may have been mis-sold the policy, but that is 
a separate complaint and I will not be considering it here.
Mr G took out Personal Possessions cover as an optional extra. The relevant details for this 
cover are on pages 45-47 of the policy booklet. Under What is covered?, it says:
This section covers theft of, accidental loss or accidental damage to, you and your family's 
personal possessions when in or temporarily outside your home - including outside of United 
Kingdom, provided the personal possessions are at all times in the control or custody of you 
or your family, or left with hotel security, in a locked safety deposit box, safe or similar locked 
receptacle.
The policy booklet therefore makes it clear that for this cover to apply the items must be in 
the control or custody of the policy holder or their family.
The policy booklet then describes What is not covered? and says:
Loss or damage
to theft or attempted theft of personal possessions from unattended vehicles, 
caravans or motor homes, where: ohere was no force or violence used to get into the vehicle, caravan or motor 
home; and/or;
othe item was not hidden from view in a locked boot, luggage or 
glove compartment;
oany sum over £1,000.
 
Mr G has argued that as he had specifically insured the laptop for a value of £4,500, it is 
unfair for the £1,000 limit to apply. Insurance companies are entitled to make decisions 
about how best to manage the risks presented by a range of scenarios and to set limits on 
the amount they are willing to pay in certain situations. Although I can understand that Mr G 
isnt happy about the policy giving a different, lower, maximum value that it will pay when an 
item is stolen from an unattended vehicle, I cant say that I think it is unreasonable for L&G 
to do so. The policy booklet described the conditions that needed to be met in order for 
personal possessions cover to apply and the specific conditions for unattended vehicles.
Mr G has said that he doesnt think it is fair to expect him to look through lots of pages of a 
policy booklet in order to ensure that he is aware of every detail of a policy. I have looked at 
other insurers to see their policy wording for personal possessions cover and found several 
where there was a lower maximum limit for the amount paid out when items are stolen from 
a vehicle. I therefore dont think that L&G were doing something unusual in putting this 
limitation in its policy. Mr G might not have been able to get the policy he required without 
specifically raising that he wanted the cover at all times. This may then have restricted the 
number of companies that he could get cover through and affected the premium that was 
then needed to be paid to provide that level of cover at all times.
Having considered all of the above, I dont think that L&G need to do anything further, as I 
think that the wording in the policy is clear and that they fairly applied the terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman