DRN-3678873
The complaint
T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions it didnt make. 
Ts sole director at the relevant time was Mr I, who Ive referred to throughout the decision.
What happened
T received an email from someone purporting to be its website builder and host  it said it 
couldnt process its payment and that to reactivate its account it needed to update its 
payment details. 
Mr I followed the link and provided card details. Hes said these pre-populated with Ts 
Monzo card details, as these were saved on his phone. Hes acknowledged that he received 
a message to add a card to Apple Pay, which he approved.
Shortly after, four debit card transactions left Ts account totalling £2,455.62. Monzo declined 
to refund these, saying Mr I failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account and to keep Ts personal security details safe. Unhappy with this response, T 
brought its complaint to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these are unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
that Mr I failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and 
keep Ts personalised security details safe. 
In saying this, Monzo point out that Mr I shouldve been suspicious of the email he 
received  it said the email address wasnt convincing. But I note that on Mr Is 
device, the email appeared to come from Ts website host. It seems you had to click 
further to bring up the actual email address. So I can see how he was persuaded by 
it at the time. 
Monzo also said Mr I shouldve logged in from his hosts website directly. Im mindful 
that its easy with hindsight to critically reflect on how things could have happened 
differently. So here, while this is something Mr I could have done, I dont think he was 
significantly careless because he didnt. Mr Is explained why he responded to the 
email  hed a card that was expiring that hed received notifications about 
elsewhere, and hed important promotions running that he worried would be affected 
if he didnt act. This isnt a perfect explanation  as Monzo point out, its not clear the 
card for Ts website payment had expired. But Im satisfied it remains a credible and 
plausible explanation for why Mr I took the steps he did in the moment. I dont think it 
meant he fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done that he failed 
with gross negligence. 
Monzo also submitted that Mr I was grossly negligent in responding to a message on 
his phone  this was a screen that said Finish adding your card to Apple Pay. Mr I 
wouldve clicked Add card followed by Ts PIN on the next screen. Monzo point out 
this was unprompted and that both T and Mr I personally had set up Apple Pay in the 
past  so were familiar with how it worked and what could happen with an 
unauthorised token. 
Ive considered this alongside Mr Is explanation for what happened: he said hed 
Apple Pay with his other card that was expiring, so when it came up, he thought hed 
replace it with the Monzo one. 
I accept Mr I couldve questioned why it came up when he hadnt requested it  
indeed, he perhaps ought reasonably to have done. But I have also considered that 
Mr I didnt appreciate this was adding Apple Pay to someone elses device  and 
theres nothing from Monzos process that wouldve obviously alerted him to that.  I 
can also see how, in the moment, Mr I didnt put this all together  that the email was 
a phishing exercise and this was the next step to steal Ts money. Im further mindful 
of the few steps needed and how quickly this wouldve happened  this wasnt a long 
drawn out process that gave Mr I much pause for thought. 
Having considered this carefully, I dont think Mr Is actions meant he seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk. It follows that Im not persuaded that he failed with gross 
negligence  so I conclude T isnt liable for the disputed transactions. 
To put things right, Monzo should refund Ts losses from these unauthorised 
transactions alongside interest to compensate T for the time its been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ts complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay T the total of the unauthorised transactions, less anything recovered (I 
understand this is £2,455.62).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman