DRN-3561413
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the policy he purchased with BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) as he 
thought it covered all his pre-existing medical conditions. At renewal, special conditions had 
been applied by BUPA which werent accurately recorded, and he was also unhappy with 
the increase in premium applied at renewal.
What happened
Mr W took out a private medical insurance policy through a broker in March 2020. The policy 
is underwritten by BUPA.
In December 2020, Mr W contacted BUPA to request pre-authorisation to see a specialist for 
a heart condition. BUPA asked some questions about the history of the symptoms and 
having considered what Mr W had said, it confirmed that the condition was pre-existing and 
would unlikely be covered.
In February 2021, Mr W contacted BUPA again for a prostate related treatment. BUPA 
asked him some questions and said it would need some more information from his GP. 
Mr W was unhappy that on both occasions BUPA said it needed information from his GP but 
also that it was unlikely he would be covered. He said when he took out the policy, details of 
his medical history were provided to BUPA. However, BUPA said no information had been 
received by it about any pre-existing conditions. 
Mr W was also unhappy that at the policy renewal stage in March 2021, special conditions 
had been applied for the heart condition and prostate condition. Having been told the detail 
of what had been recorded for the prostate condition, Mr W was upset as this wasnt 
accurate. 
He was also unhappy that BUPA only paid a flat fee of £15 towards covering the cost of 
obtaining medical information from his GP. Mr W said his GP was asking for a much higher 
fee for this and he thought BUPA wasnt being fair. 
Unhappy with BUPA, Mr W made a complaint. BUPA looked into it and said some of their 
communication could have been clearer and the information was recorded inaccurately 
regarding one of the special conditions. It apologised and agreed to pay Mr W £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him. 
BUPA also confirmed that the policy Mr W took out doesnt cover pre-existing medical 
conditions and that it didnt receive Mr Ws medical history when he took the policy out. 
BUPA asked for a history and onset form to be completed by Mr Ws GP so it could assess 
what cover he would be eligible for under the policy. And, in terms of the £15 fee, BUPA said 
it would pay this one fee to all its customers.
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Mr W brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint and said the following:
BUPA isnt responsible for the mis-sale aspect of the complaint. The policy was sold 
to Mr W by a broker and he should take this part of the complaint to the broker.
There was no evidence that BUPA had any information about Mr Ws pre-existing 
medical conditions. But as Mr W had subsequently made BUPA aware of these, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, it was entitled to not provide cover 
for those.
Mr W had completed a medical history form at the time of taking out the policy. He 
had included information about some medical conditions or symptoms in this form, 
but none had been recorded as a special condition by BUPA and there was no 
evidence to show BUPA had been made aware of any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
BUPA hadnt acted incorrectly in asking Mr W to provide further information from his 
GP to check whether the medical conditions could potentially be pre-existing. 
Mr W hasnt ever needed to pay the £15 fee so this isnt a cost that was incurred by 
him. And, if he does incur a cost in the future, this is something he may want to 
contact BUPA about directly at the time.
She didnt think it was unfair for BUPA to charge the premium it did based on the 
information it provided. And, Mr W was also offered two free months cover so overall, 
while there was an increase which she thought was in line with other members, Mr W 
did benefit from having two free months worth of cover.  
The £100 compensation for the upset caused to Mr W was fair and taking into 
account what happened. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions of Mr Ws private medical insurance 
as this forms the basis of his contract with BUPA. 
Mr W has said hes unhappy that his conditions have been treated as pre-existing. Ive 
looked at his membership certificate and section 1, which sets out the terms for eligible 
treatment, benefits and limitations. This confirms the policy Mr W has taken out was 
underwritten. I cant see that there were any special conditions noted by BUPA on Mr Ws 
membership certificate. The section confirms that it wont pay for treatment for any special 
conditions detailed on the membership certificate or for any pre-existing conditions. A pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
Pre-existing Condition is a disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years 
before your start date:
you have received medication, advice or Treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms whether the condition was diagnosed or not.
In addition, if you or a Dependant have any other Pre-existing Condition you have not 
told us about, that will not be covered.
You can ask us at renewal to re-assess any Pre-existing Condition to see if we can 
cover it in the future.
Based on what Ive looked at above and the answers Mr W provided to BUPA when he 
sought pre-authorisation for treatment for the two conditions, I dont think BUPA treated 
Mr W outside of whats expected in the policy terms and conditions. I dont think its unfair 
when BUPA said it was likely the conditions would be considered as pre-existing but also 
when it asked for further information from Mr Ws GP to assess this further.
 
Ive also considered the information Mr W provided to BUPA in the medical history form 
when he took out the policy. He did provide information to BUPA about various treatment 
hes had in the past, but having gone through this information at the time, BUPA didnt think 
it was necessary to note any special conditions on Mr Ws membership certificate. I havent 
seen anything other than the medical history form that was sent to BUPA and I cant see that 
Mr W made it aware of any other pre-existing medical conditions.
How the claim has been handled
Ive listened to all of the telephone calls Mr W has with BUPA and that were provided to us. I 
agree with BUPA that it could have been clearer in explaining the terms and conditions of 
the policy to Mr W and what it meant that the policy was underwritten. I can see that BUPA 
explained this to Mr W in its final response. 
As Ive said above, I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to say the conditions Mr W had made 
it aware of were pre-existing, or for it to ask for further information from his GP to assess the 
conditions. I dont consider it unfair for BUPA to pay a flat fee of £15 toward the GPs 
administration fee for providing Mr W information that BUPA asked for. This is standard and I 
cant see Mr W has been treated any differently to other customers.
I also heard the upset that BUPA caused in incorrectly recording one of the special 
conditions. Having listened to the relevant calls, there was no mention by Mr W of the 
symptom that was recorded, and it was upsetting for Mr W to have heard how it had been 
recorded. BUPA apologised to Mr W for the upset caused and in recognition of this paid 
Mr W £100 for this. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of what happened. 
Policy renewal
Ive thought about Mr Ws concerns regarding the increase in premium when the policy was 
renewed. Generally, its not our role to tell an insurer what premium it should charge to its 
customers as that is a commercial decision. But we can look at whether the premium 
charged is in line with other customers in similar positions and whether thats fair. 
Mr W paid £3,038.88 in the first year which included a no claims discount of 65%. Upon 
renewal, the premium was £3,251.52 and also included a no claims discount of 68%. Mr W 
was offered two months worth of free cover which brought the annual premium for this year down to £2,679.60.
I appreciate Mr Ws comments that the overall premium has increased if the free cover isnt 
included. But based on the information we have been provided, the premium has increased 
in line with other customers and the type of policy Mr W has. I also appreciate that Mr W 
says he hasnt had the benefit of the policy as his medical conditions have been added as 
pre-existing. However, on this, Mr W should note that BUPA has asked for further 
information from his GP and which he hasnt yet provided. So, its still open if Mr W does 
want to send this information and BUPA has said it would assess the situation again at that 
point. I dont think the premium increase is unfair based on what Ive seen.
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, I realise this will be disappointing to Mr W, but Im 
not persuaded that BUPA has acted outside of the policy terms and conditions or thats its 
treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. I think the £100 compensation offered by BUPA for 
inaccurately recording information about his medical condition is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. It follows that I dont require BUPA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against BUPA Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman