DRN-2479199
The complaint
Mr T complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL) converted and sold 
units within his general investment account without his authority. Mr T says that this type of 
fund incurs monthly fees and that he has been disadvantaged as a result.
What happened
Mr T is a long-term investor and holds an ISA and a general investment account with FASL. 
Mr T is invested into one fund within these accounts and has held these for a period of 
around 30 years. I will call these units Fund A.
In 2013, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced new regulation following their 
Retail Distribution Review. One of the aims of this regulation was to make pricing more 
transparent. In 2014, FASL made changes to their funds and new share classes were 
introduced. These share classes contained only the fund managers charges and did not 
contain any platform or service charges or fees. These share classes were known as clean 
share classes.
In 2015, FASL converted the units in Mr Ts ISA to a new clean share class. FASL say that 
they had the authority to do this as the units were held within a Nominee account and they 
did not need client approval. Mr T complained about this and a final response was sent to 
him in May 2016.
On 28 November 2019, FASL contacted all clients who held units in Fund A. In this letter, 
FASL explained that they were intending to convert Fund A into a clean share class and the 
letter requested that clients should notify them within 60 days if they did not consent to the 
units being converted.
Mr T did not respond to this letter and the units were converted on 14 February 2020. Mr T 
contacted FASL on 29 February 2020 asked what was happening to the units he held. There 
was an exchange of emails and a complaint was raised by Mr T on 15 March 2020. Mr T 
said that he did not receive the letter that was sent to him in November 2019.
FASL investigated the complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. FASL 
referred to the letter that was sent in November 2019. FASL did not uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with FASLs decision, Mr T referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator did not think that FASL had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr T has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and FASL have submitted detailed documentation and I thank them for providing me 
with this so I can make an informed decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but having read 
the documentation available to me, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr T feels strongly about his complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
In his submission to the service, Mr T has written about the units that were held within his 
ISA. As FASL sent their final response to Mr T in May 2016 and Mr T did not refer this matter 
to the service until May 2020, I am unable to consider this part of the complaint as it is now 
out of our jurisdiction due the time that has passed.
The main parts to Mr Ts complaint are:
He did not receive the letter notifying him of FASLs intention to convert his units
FASL sold and converted his units without his express consent 
The charges that apply to his investment are now taken monthly and this is taken from 
the value of his holdings  
He has no need any enhanced service that FASL say that their system changes provide 
I will answer these points in turn.
Mr T did not receive the letter notifying him of FASLs intention to convert his units
Mr T says that he did not receive the letter that was sent to him detailing the changes about 
his units. He says that after he saw that his units had been sold and converted, he contacted 
FASL and was then told that he had been sent to his online account.
In his submission to the service following the investigators view, Mr T said that the online 
message that was sent does not appear on the summary page and he had to proactively 
seek out the message. Mr T also says that he did not receive an email notification that there 
was a secure message waiting for him.
FASL have provided system records showing the activity surrounding the letter sent on 
November 2019. From what I have seen, FASL posted the letter on 28 November 2019. 
FASL have also provided a record of the successful log-ins to Mr Ts account. I can see that 
Mr T logged into his account on 8 and 29 December 2019 and on 2 February 2020. These 
three log-ins were carried out before the deadline date of 14 February 2020 for clients to 
object to the conversion.
I have looked at the page that would have been presented to Mr T after he logged in. On the 
top navigation bar, there are five tabs including one called Documents and Messages. When 
this tab is selected, it opens, and any documents or messages are shown here.  I can see 
that the November letter is shown as Miscellaneous Letter. 
FASL have said that Mr Ts preference for communication was online and that an email 
notification would have been sent to him telling him that there was a message or document 
waiting. I have looked at the system record that FASL have provided and can see that Mr T 
is set up for email notification. 
Its not clear from the records whether an email was sent to Mr T, but I can see that the 
email that FASL holds for Mr T is the same one used to communicate with the service. I 
think that on the balance of probability, an email was sent to Mr T.Mr T says that if the communication was urgent FASL should have posted it to his home 
address. Whilst I sympathise that Mr T may not have viewed the Document and Messages 
tab after logging into the website, I cant say that FASL have acted unfairly as this was his 
preferred method of contact.  
FASL sold and converted his units without his express consent
Mr T says that FASL required his express and specific authorisation to make transactions on 
his account. He says that he had previously declined to convert his units when contacted by 
FASL.
FASL converted the units held by Mr T following the passing of the 60-day deadline that they 
referred to within the November 2019 letter. In this letter, FASL wrote:
What can I do if I dont want you to make these changes?
If you do not want us to make these changes, you can call us to withhold your consent. In 
this case, we will not convert your investments to the new charging structure and will not be 
able to move them to our new administration system. This means that you will not be in a 
position to benefit from the improvements we are making to our services.
I note that Mr T had declined to convert his units when previously approached by FASL. Mr 
T says that FASL should have been aware of his wishes. Ive considered this but as the 
letter would have been sent to all holders of Fund A, I dont think that it would have been 
possible for FASL to review each individuals personal circumstances.
I think that the November letter gives clear notice of FASLs intentions and provided clients 
with enough time to let FASL know if they did not wish for the conversion to go ahead. I think 
that FASL could place reliance on this letter to carry out the conversion if no response was 
received. I say this as the conversion to a clean share class did not place Mr T in a position 
where he would have been worse off.
The charges that apply to his investment are now taken monthly and this is taken from the 
value of his holdings  
Mr T says that following the conversion of his units to the clean share class, the way that 
fees are taken has changed and that he has been disadvantaged. He says this conversion 
was done so that they took take monthly fees.
This issue was raised in 2016 when FASL initially wished to move clients to the new clean 
share class. In an email to Mr T they said:
To clarify, there has always been a Service Fee paid from your investments. Previously it 
was built into your fund by an ongoing charge figure (OCF) which would have reflected in 
your portfolio as lower growth and essentially would have been reflected in unit price of the 
funds you held. As a result of a recent industry review by the Financial Conduct Authority we 
have changed the way in which we charge our clients. 
To provide greater transparency to clients the Service Fee is now charged separately from 
the ongoing charge of the fund. In order to facilitate this for new investments, regulations 
dictated that fund providers needed to create new share classes for funds. These are 
invested in the same underlying assets as the original share class however they are charged 
differently. The service fee is no longer built into the OCF of the fund and is now taken by 
unit deduction to increase transparency.I confirm the total charges you pay are now lower in comparison to what you were paying 
with our old bundled charging structure. To clarify, in my colleague response to you, he 
stated that the OCF of the bundled fund is 1.5%. This is in fact the Annual Management 
charge. The OCF is currently 1.73%. I apologise for any confusion. 
Now, under the new clean charging structure you are paying an OCF of 0.97% plus the 
service fee of 0.35% which totals 1.32%. Therefore, accurate to yesterdays dealing point in 
relation to your total portfolio holdings, you are better off on the clean charging structure by 
£168.14 per annum due to the 0.41% reduction in total costs in the new clean fund.
I have looked at how Mr T is now charged, and I acknowledge that he is now charged 
monthly however the amount that he is charged is less than it was before the conversion  it 
is just taken in a different way. Mr T was always paying a service charge, but it was built into 
the ongoing charge figure. Following the conversion, FASL showed this as a separate fee 
and this is the charge that is taken monthly.
I sympathise that Mr T now needs to either fund his account on a monthly basis or sell units 
to pay for the service fees but as this type of charging arrangement was introduced by the 
FCA following the Retail Distribution Review, I dont think that FASL have acted unfairly in 
applying fees in this way.
He has no need any enhanced service that FASL say that their system changes provide 
Mr T says that he is a long-term buy and hold investor and does not need any enhanced 
service. FASL say that one of the benefits of their new service was the introduction of a 
Cash Management Service. This allows a client to fund their account so that fees would be 
taken from here rather than units having to be sold to pay for the fees.
In his submission to the service, Mr T complained that units were sold to pay for fees. This 
new facility gives Mr T the option of funding this account so that units are not sold and 
reducing his overall holding. It would appear to me that this service would be of benefit to Mr 
T as he had previously complained about units being sold.
In summary, I think that FASL provided Mr T with enough notice of their intention to convert 
his units. It sent the letter to the online account which was Mr Ts preference and an email 
notification was sent. FASLs records show that Mr T had logged into his account on three 
occasions before the deadline for conversion. If Mr T did not read the letter that was 
available, then I cant hold FASL responsible for this.
I think that notice was provided in good time and I dont think that FASL have acted unfairly 
in converting the units when it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman