DRN-1868894
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Canada Life Limited has unfairly declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr M had a group income protection insurance policy through his employer. This would pay 
a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if Mr M was unable to work due to 
illness or injury.
Mr M had an injury following an accident at work in November 2018.  He made a claim but 
Canada Life declined the claim because it didnt think he met the definition of incapacity.
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Canada Life had acted unfairly. Mr 
M disagreed and made the following comments, in summary:
He has never fully recovered from his previous back surgery 
He is expected to work alone and move servers which require heavy lifting. This is 
the nature of the job and all data centres are the same 
Due to the nature of Mr Ms injuries, he is unable to perform his normal occupation 
and his injuries are a consequence of his occupation 
Canada Life arranged for the occupational health (OH) assessments to be done and 
they all contradict each other. The first OH report said Mr M shouldnt lift any weights 
over 5kg, the second said Mr M shouldnt lift any weights over 20kg, and the third 
said he shouldnt lift any weights over 15kg. There was no consistency between the 
three experts. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
illness or injury meeting either the standard, suited occupation or standard switching to 
suited occupation after 2 years definitions of incapacity as agreed between you and us and 
shown in your policy particulars.
The standard definition says:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period and 
beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them incapable of, 
performing the material and substantial duties of their normal occupation.
Material and substantial duties are defined as follows:
The duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal occupation and 
which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or the member. The duties refer to 
the tasks the member is required to perform, and whether those tasks could be carried out 
for you or any other employer. In addition, a journey to and from the members normal 
residence to their normal place of work is not regarded as part of the normal occupation.
Mr M injured his back and has been unable to work since November 2018. The policy had a 
deferred period of 26 weeks. This ended on 18 May 2019. And so Mr M had to show that he 
was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role, due to his injury, 
throughout the deferred period and beyond. 
Canada Life reviewed the medical evidence but concluded Mr M wasnt suffering from an 
injury throughout the deferred period which would prevent him from carrying out the material 
and substantial duties of his role. 
Ive considered the following medical evidence which Canada Life has relied on.
Key medical evidence
December 2018  Mr M saw a consultant spinal neurosurgeon who examined Mr M and 
requested an MRI scan  the results showed there was no evidence of right sided nerve root 
compression, as suspected. His leg pain was improving and he noted there were other 
possibilities for his leg pain. He said swimming and Pilates were useful and discharged Mr 
M.
January 2019  OH report which said Mr M was in some pain and struggling to sit, stand and 
walk  and was managing pain with strong pain killers. Mr M wasnt currently fit for work but 
was likely to be sufficiently fit to return in six weeks with some work adjustments. These 
included not carrying weights of more than 5kg, and there was major concern for him to work 
single man role shifts.
April 2019  OH report which said Mr Ms symptoms had improved slowly and he no longer 
needed painkillers. Mr M had been discharged by his doctor and physiotherapist. On 
examination, Mr M had a reduction in the movement of his lower back, however his general 
range of movement was reasonable. He said Mr M should be able to undertake cable pulling 
as well as installation but lifting heavy items was likely to cause increased discomfort. Mr M 
was capable of working alone but should avoid lifting weights from below the knee or above 
shoulder height and should not lift weights in excess of 20kgs.
August 2019  a review was completed by Canada Lifes medical officer, a consultant 
physician and rheumatologist. He said the episode in 2018 was a muscular strain and these 
are short lasting events. He said Mr M had been given appropriate advice on exercising and 
with physiotherapy, he should have been able to return to work before Christmas. Any 
further delay was medically unjustified. He said Mr M could continue with his job, as long as 
he took precautions on bending, lifting and carrying correctly, and could work on night shifts 
on his own. He said there was no medical reason for restrictions on lifting below knee levels 
and the correct technique would allow him to lift from the ground. September 2019  OH report which said Mr M struggled with heavy lifting and tended to 
avoid anything in excess of 15kg. He also found lifting from below knee level could 
aggravate his lower back discomfort. An examination found Mr M maintained a reasonable 
range of movement in his lower back, there was slight stiffness and reduced range of 
movement at the extremes. Mr M was fit to return to work and the doctor suggested a 
phased return. He said he could cope with lifting weights up to a maximum of 15kgs but he 
should avoid lifting from below the knee or above shoulder height which was likely to 
aggravate lower back weakness. Once Mr M returned to work and his capabilities had been 
assessed, there would be no restriction to him working alone or at night. 
Having considered the above, its clear that Mr M didnt meet the definition of incapacity 
throughout the deferred period as the experts thought Mr M was ready to go back to work by 
April 2019 at the latest. As Mr M didnt meet the definition of incapacitated throughout the 
deferred period, I dont think Canada Life acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim.
I note Mr M didnt go back to work and that reasonable adjustments had been recommended 
which he says his employer hadnt agreed to. But I can only consider Canada Lifes actions 
and cant comment on Mr Ms employment matter. 
Turning now to Mr Ms comments, he says he has never fully recovered from his previous 
back surgery and his working duties would be the same with any employer. He says he is 
unable to perform his normal occupation. But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr M 
isnt able to perform his own occupation. All of the medical experts agree that Mr M can 
return to work, with reasonable adjustments. 
Mr M also says all of the occupational health reports contradict each other in terms of the 
maximum weight Mr M could lift. Each of the examinations all took place at different points in 
time and so Im not surprised that the results were different, especially as Mr Ms condition 
improved over time. And so I dont think this makes the evidence unreliable or inconsistent 
as the general conclusions of all experts were similar and consistent. 
Canada Life did offer Mr M £300 compensation for any stress and inconvenience caused to 
him for the delay in considering his claim. I think this is reasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman