DRN-3479230
The complaint
Mr R complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) gave him 
wrong information about a rights issue. He says he wants compensation for the loss hes 
made because he wasnt able to purchase the new shares as hed planned.
What happened
Mr R had a holding of shares which Ill refer to as A. In or around October 2020, A 
announced a rights issue. Mr R was allocated 14,780 rights. He needed to give instructions 
to take up or sell the rights by 9 November.
He phoned HLAM on 2 November because he hadnt received any information about the 
rights issue. He said he wanted to sell his shares to give him enough money to buy the new 
shares. He says HLAM told him he could sell his ordinary shares and the rights and would 
still be able to purchase the new shares. But, because he sold the rights, he lost the 
opportunity to buy the new shares.
HLAM said it told Mr R he could sell his ordinary shares and that he was told he wouldnt be 
able to purchase new shares if he sold his rights.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that, whilst 
HLAM had provided the correct information twice during the 2 November phone call, when 
Mr R queried it for a third time, HLAM told him he could sell everything and still purchase the 
new shares. The investigator didnt think HLAM had provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information and that Mr R had acted on the information hed received when he sold 
everything. The investigator thought HLAM should compensate Mr R by calculating the 
value of Mr Rs holdings had he purchased shares under the rights issue using the funds 
from selling his ordinary shareholding. The share price used in this calculation should be 
from the date of settlement of this complaint. He also thought HLAM should pay Mr R £100 
for the distress hed been caused.
HLAM didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
During the call on 2 November, Mr R had twice been told that he wouldnt be able to 
purchase the new share entitlement if he sold his rights. 
Mr R was directed to the information available online about the rights issue. And, 
because he hadnt received HLAMs letter about the rights issue, it emailed him shortly 
after the phone call with the information. Mr R sold his rights entitlement 10 minutes after 
hed received the email.
HLAM accepts its member of staffs last comment during the phone call could have been 
clearer  but shed given him the correct information during the call and the correct 
information was available on its website and in its email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have agreed with the conclusion of the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr R had an execution only share dealing account. HLAM wasnt obliged to provide him with 
investment advice. But it was obliged to provide him with fair, clear, and not misleading 
information so that he could decide for himself what was appropriate for him.
Mr Rs account had been credited with 14,780 rights. Mr R wanted to purchase the rights to 
obtain new A shares. This would cost him £4,729.60. When he spoke to HLAM on 
2 November, he hadnt received any information about the rights issue. HLAM said this had 
been posted to him but offered to provide him with the information by email and on the 
phone.
I think Mr R made it reasonably clear that he wanted to sell shares so that he had enough 
money to buy the new shares. But I dont think he understood the rights issue process. He 
thought he could give instructions to take up the new shares and then sell his ordinary 
shares and the rights to give him enough money to pay for the new shares. This is what he 
did  but because hed sold the rights, he didnt receive the new shares (and he wasnt 
debited for the cost of them).
HLAM says it gave Mr R the correct information  on its website, in its email and twice during 
the phone call. But, unfortunately, it also gave him unclear information during the phone call, 
and I find he relied on that information when he sold his rights.
Mr R had already asked HLAM twice whether he could sell everything and still be able to 
buy the new shares. HLAM clarified that he could sell his ordinary shares. And told him that, 
If you sell your rights, you obviously wont be able to purchase new shares. But Mr R asked 
the question for a third time. He said:
Basically, what Im saying is if I sell everything Ive got Im still entitled to buy?
And HLAM confirmed Yes.
HLAM should have made it clear  for the third time  that he couldnt sell the rights if he 
wanted to buy any new shares. Mr R also said during the call that he had around £8,800 
worth of shares that he could sell. But his ordinary shares were only worth around £3,200. 
I think this should reasonably have shown HLAM that Mr R either didnt have a clear 
understanding of his shareholding, or that he didnt understand how a rights issue works. 
I think that reasonably should have caused HLAM to carefully check that all the information it 
gave Mr R was clear and accurate. On balance, HLAM failed to do that with its final answer 
to his question. I think HLAM should have reasonably realised Mr R was planning to sell both 
his ordinary shares and the rights and it should have clearly warned him that he wouldnt be 
able to buy the new shares if he did so.
HLAM accepts that its member of staffs last comment could have been clearer. And I find 
Mr R relied on that final piece of information hed been given  that he could sell everything 
and still buy the new shares.
HLAM did send him an email with the rights issue information which it says Mr R received 
before he placed the sale instructions. But I think it was reasonable for Mr R to rely on the 
information hed been given during the phone call.Overall, I agree with the investigator that HLAM should compensate Mr R for giving him 
unclear information which directly led to him selling his rights entitlement when hed made it 
reasonably clear he wanted to buy the new shares. Ive set out below the compensation 
calculation in a bit more detail than our investigator to make sure fair compensation is paid. 
And I think its fair that HLAM pays Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Putting things right
Mr R should be put in the position hed be in now if hed been given clear information. I think 
he would have sold his ordinary shares, used the proceeds to buy as many of the new A 
shares as he could, and sold the remaining rights. I cant say with any certainty what Mr R 
would have done with the new A shares if hed purchased them. So I think the fairest way to 
calculate the compensation is as follows:
1. HLAM should calculate how many new shares Mr R could have purchased (at 32p each) 
from the proceeds of the sale of his ordinary shares on 2 November 2020
2. Calculate the value of those new A shares as at the date of settlement, using the mid-
price - B
3. Calculate what Mr R would have received if his remaining rights were sold on 11 
November 2020 - C
4. Pay Mr R B + C + any cash remaining after the new shares would have been purchased; 
and deduct the amount Mr R received from the sale of his ordinary shares and his rights 
(£9,284.88).
5. Pay Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman