DRN-4056152
The complaint
Mr W has a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He complains about the way 
it has been managed.
What happened
Mr W has a mortgage with Barclays. He complains about the way it managed his mortgage 
after he lost his job in 2019 due to the covid-19 pandemic. That led to Mr W having serious 
health challenges. Mr W hasnt worked since then. 
Mr W complains that he took two coronavirus payment deferrals without the implications 
being fully explained to him. As a result he says arrears have accumulated on his account 
that will cost him an extra £500 a month to clear. Mr W says that if hed known his monthly 
payments would increase to such a level he wouldnt have taken the payment deferrals.
Mr W is also unhappy that Barclays have refused to offer him a better interest rate product 
for his mortgage.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said she was very sorry to hear about the 
difficult time Mr W has been going through but she didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be 
upheld. She said that Mr W had applied for the coronavirus payment deferrals. She thought 
Barclays had been clear about what the impact of those payment deferrals would be. She 
recognised that Mr W was now in substantial arrears on his mortgage. But she thought the 
level of arrears was mostly a result of the fact that Mr W hadnt paid his mortgage since 
2020. She appreciated Mr Ws unhappiness about the amount of contact there had been 
from Barclays at times, but she thought much of the unwelcome contact occurred because 
Barclays hadnt been able to get in touch with Mr W or his representative, so it kept trying. 
She could also understand why Barclays hadnt given Mr W a new (lower) interest rate 
product on his mortgage. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. He has made a number of points that Ive 
considered below. As Mr W didnt agree with the outcome our investigator recommended, 
this complaint has been passed on to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Before I do, I think it would be helpful for me to comment on my role and the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. The Financial Ombudsman Service has been set up to 
resolve individual complaints in a fair and reasonable way. It isnt to regulate businesses or 
to comment on the way the banking industry is run. Its clear from what Mr W has told us that 
he feels his problems have been caused by big picture issues in the banking industry and 
by the wider economy. He wants that to be acknowledged and for me to comment on that. 
He says he thinks Barclays is corrupt and has referred to its profits on a number of 
occasions. Its also clear that Mr W thinks that Barclays has put its profit above all else. I 
dont underestimate the strength of Mr Ws feeling about Barclays. But it isnt my role to 
comment on big picture issues in the banking industry, so I will focus on the key issues that 
are relevant to the way Barclays has handled Mr Ws mortgage in this decision.
Barclays actions in relation to the payment deferrals and the interest rate on Mr Ws 
mortgage
Mr W took two coronavirus payment deferrals from March to May 2020, and from June to 
August 2020. The evidence shows that Mr W applied for both of these payment deferrals 
online. On 1 May 2020 Barclays wrote to Mr W. The letter said that when the payment 
deferral period ends his monthly payments would increase to enable the money he owed 
from the deferred payments to be spread over the rest of his mortgage term. The letter 
invited Mr W to contact Barclays if he was concerned that he might not be able to afford new 
monthly payments at the end of the payment deferral period. However, he didnt do that.
Mr W has told us that he has been very unwell since he lost his job in 2019. It seems his 
health stopped him from reading all the letters Barclays sent him around the time he got the 
payment deferrals. 
Mr W said that before the payment deferrals his monthly mortgage repayments were around 
£2085. After the deferrals his monthly payments increased to more than £2500. So the 
deferrals had a significant impact on him and will cost him a huge amount more over the life 
of his mortgage. He says that when he applied for the payment deferrals it was impossible to 
actually speak to someone on the phone. He feels that the financial implications should have 
been made clear to him before he took the deferrals, not after.
I appreciate Mr Ws position. I think the financial implications of the payments deferrals 
should have been made clear to customers before they entered into them. However, I think 
the following points are also relevant here.
Firstly, I think its fair and reasonable for me to bear in mind the unprecedented situation 
Barclays found itself in during 2020. The covid-19 pandemic meant that there was very high 
demand for support from Barclays customers. That put added pressure on Barclays at a 
time when its branches were shut and its staff had to work from home unexpectedly. At the 
same time it had to implement new and changing guidance from its regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to give its customers payment holidays to help them though the 
pandemic. 
Mr W has suggested that Barclays took advantage of the pandemic to make huge profits 
from customers like him. The implication is that it did this by offering coronavirus payment 
deferrals. But it was the FCA that directed banks such as Barclays to give such deferrals to 
help them though the pandemic. 
Barclays notes of its contact with Mr W show that Barclays and Mr W spoke on the phone in 
July 2020. It then tried to phone him several times after that but couldnt get through. In the 
July 2020 phone call Mr W explained his circumstances. He told Barclays he wasnt working 
and that he was on benefits. Its clear from what he has told us that Mr W hasnt worked 
since that time. So Im satisfied that the substantial arrears on Mr Ws mortgage today has 
been caused by the fact that he hasnt made any payments towards the mortgage since 
2020.
I think its important to note that payment deferrals are not, and are not treated as, arrears. 
So while Mr W hasnt made those payments and still needs to make them up, they do not form part of the arrears on his account and werent recorded as arrears on his credit file. And 
from everything Ive seen I dont think Mr W would have been able to make the payments 
had Barclays not deferred them. In that situation, the payments would still have been missed 
but would have been treated as arrears. To that extent, Mr W is better off having taken the 
payment deferrals than he would have been if he hadnt. 
I dont underestimate how strongly Mr W feels about the coronavirus payment deferrals. 
However, I think his mortgage account would be in a worse position (in other words, the 
arrears would be greater) than it currently is if the coronavirus payment deferrals werent put 
in place.
Mr W got in touch with a housing advice charity, about his situation. He says the charity 
helped him put forward a proposal to Barclays that would help him clear the arrears on his 
mortgage. That involved him releasing some equity from the mortgaged property to 
reduce/clear the arrears and carry out essential maintenance. Mr W complains that Barclays 
declined that offer.
I appreciate how frustrated Mr W was by that. He says he (and the charity) thought the 
proposal was reasonable, and that Barclays should have engaged with him or the charity 
about the proposal instead of just declining it. However, Barclays wouldnt offer Mr W further 
borrowing while he was in arrears and without being satisfied he would be able to afford the 
repayments. Ultimately, Barclays wasnt required to accept Mr Ws offer or make him a 
counter offer. It was reasonable for it to be concerned that increasing his debt when he was 
already struggling with his mortgage was not the best way to help him. In the circumstances 
I would expect Mr W to consider the other options open to him. I think it would have been 
good practice for Barclays to suggest that Mr W seek advice about his circumstances. 
However, I can see from Barclays notes of its interactions with the charity that it told 
Barclays it had given Mr W advice about his options after Barclays had declined the 
proposal in early 2022. So I cant say it made a mistake here.
Mr W has also complained that Barclays declined to lower the interest rate he was paying on 
his mortgage. He says that if it had reduced the interest rate he was paying his arrears 
would have been lower than they are today.
Again, I dont underestimate Mr Ws strength of feeling about his issue, but Mr Ws mortgage 
was in arrears when he asked for a new interest rate product, and he had told Barclays he 
was not working/ that he was on benefits. So Barclays had to consider that. As a responsible 
lender, Barclays had to consider whether Mr W could afford a new fixed interest rate 
product. Whilst often cheaper than standard variable interest rate products, fixed rate 
products often come with fees, and include a substantial early repayment charge (ERC) if 
the borrowing is repaid within the fixed rate period. While offering Mr W a new interest rate 
would have reduced his payments, given his circumstances I dont think its likely even the 
reduced rate would have been affordable for him. This means the mortgage would have 
continued to be in arrears, with a risk that Mr W might need to sell the property or that 
Barclays might repossess it  and if that were to happen in the fixed rate period Mr W would 
have to pay the ERC. In those circumstances, a new fixed rate risks making things worse not 
better in the long run. So I think it was fair Barclays didnt offer Mr W a new fixed interest rate 
product  I wouldnt expect it to do so until he could show that doing so would make the 
mortgage affordable for him. Although Mr W has been clear that he was a loyal Barclays 
customer for many years that had historically made his payments, Barclays had to consider 
the financial position Mr W was in when he asked for a new (lower) interest rate product.
So while Im in no doubt that Mr W feels that Barclays should have done more to support 
him, I dont think its fair to say that Barclays acted unfairly towards him in relation to his 
proposal to release equity from his property or to get a new interest rate product. Barclays communications and support for Mr W
Mr W is very unhappy with the contact he has had with Barclays since his mortgage fell into 
arrears. He says that at one point he was receiving numerous phone calls each day from 
Barclays staff  something he considers to be harassment. He also complains that when he 
did speak to Barclays staff he had to repeat himself to different people, in different locations 
across the world. He feels the people he spoke to werent equipped to help him and didnt do 
so. He says that had a huge impact on his already fragile health and he had to stop taking 
Barclays telephone calls.
After this Mr W got two representatives to help him. Initially his father helped him, but Mr W 
complains that Barclays continued to call his father when his mother was unwell. Later Mr W 
had problems getting his friend (who lives abroad) set up as a representative on his account.
Ive considered Barclays notes of its contact with Mr W and his representatives. Ive also 
considered a number of letters that it sent him. Barclays notes dont support Mr Ws 
assertion that it called him numerous times each day. But I can see that Barclays wrote to 
Mr W frequently after he stopped making his mortgage repayments to tell him about the 
arrears on the account. It also tried to contact him, and later his father (as his representative) 
on a number of occasions on the phone without success.
I appreciate that Mr W was upset by Barclays contact with him (and his representatives) 
since September 2020. He says Barclays should have left him to recover and shouldnt have 
made matters worse by trying to contact him as frequently as it did. He has told us how 
some of Barclays contact triggered him and exacerbated his health condition. 
I understand Mr Ws point of view and Im sorry to hear what he has told us about. However, 
Im conscious that Barclays was obliged to ensure that Mr W was fully aware of the potential 
consequences of the substantial arrears that were building up on his account, and later on 
about potential litigation. Im also conscious that in order to help him reduce the arrears on 
the mortgage, it needed to speak to Mr W about his account and understand his wider 
circumstances, including what (if anything) he could afford to pay. Given the significant 
arrears I can understand why Barclays wasnt willing to do nothing while the arrears 
continued to grow. I dont think that would have been a responsible thing for it to do. So 
overall, Im not persuaded that the level or nature of the contact was unreasonable given the 
arrears on Mr Ws account  even bearing in mind Mr Ws vulnerabilities. Im satisfied that 
there would have been less contact if Mr W (or his representatives) had been able to pick up 
the phone when Barclays called.
For completeness I will make two further points here. Firstly, I can see that at one point 
Barclays sent a field agent to the property as its letters hadnt been responded to. I 
appreciate that such a visit was unwelcome. But, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to send field agents to the property to check on its security and try to engage with 
Mr W given the level of arrears. 
Secondly, I think its worth me saying here that I think that Barclays could have handled its 
communications with Mr W better. He has talked about the impact of having to repeat 
himself to a number of Barclays advisers, and that at one point he was in contact with 
Barclays specialist support team but that contact ended without him knowing why. As Mr W 
had made Barclays aware of his vulnerabilities on many occasions, I think it wouldve been 
helpful for Barclays specialist support team to help Mr W on an ongoing basis. Alternatively I 
think it wouldve helped Mr W if he had been given a single point of contact to speak to about 
his account. 
Mr W has also complained that Barclays legal representatives tried to send him a text message about it being law firm of the year and that the relevant law firm didnt know his 
case had been put on hold when it had. I can understand why Mr W was very frustrated by 
these issues. However, Ive seen nothing to persuade me Barclays or its agents harassed 
Mr W or his representatives as he has suggested. 
Very recently Barclays has agreed to pay Mr W £500 compensation to reflect the upset 
some of its communications (and those of its agents  such as its legal representatives) 
caused. I think thats a fair and reasonable amount bearing in mind the nature of Barclays 
mistakes and the impact on Mr W. Mr W has described £500 compensation as an insult. Im 
sorry he feels that way. However, I think its a fair and reasonable amount for the reasons 
set out above. 
Conclusion
I appreciate that Mr W has been going through a difficult time since late 2019. Im very sorry 
to hear that, and genuinely empathise with Mr Ws situation. 
However, Mr Ws mortgage has been unpaid for more than two and a half years now. The 
arrears on his account are substantial and increasing. To move forwards, Barclays will need 
to look carefully at his situation to see whether theres further assistance it can offer, and 
Mr W will need to engage with Barclays and try to work with it. I hope a solution can be 
found, and Mr W is able to resume paying his mortgage. But if that doesnt prove to be 
possible, Barclays might decide it needs to take further action. That might involve action to 
repossess the property  something I know Barclays has put on hold since early 2022. If 
Barclays does decide it needs to take further action it should bear Mr Ws vulnerabilities in 
mind as it does so. That includes keeping under review whether it would be more 
appropriate for Mr W to be dealt with by its specialist support team.
Putting things right
To put matters right Barclays should pay Mr W the £500 it has offered to pay him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr W £500 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman