DRN-4175581
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her Tech and 
Travel Packs that were added to her account in January 2017.
Miss M says that Barclays bullied her into adding the two Packs to her current account over 
the telephone and says she was told she needed the Packs to keep her current account 
active.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Packs had 
been mis-sold.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
I note that a part of Miss Ms testimony appears to relate to the sale of a packaged account 
that was removed and replaced by the two Packs. As the sale of the original packaged 
account will be considered separately, I have not addressed that sale in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to say that the Packs were mis-sold.
Miss M says that Barclays told her over the phone that she must add the two Packs to her 
account, otherwise she wont be able to keep her account. However, Barclays has provided 
a copy of its customer notes  which include telephone contact notes with Miss M over the 
years and there is no evidence of a call taking place around January 2017. 
Furthermore, Barclays has explained that the Packs were added to Miss Ms account 
because it had decided to withdraw her existing packaged account and replace some of the 
benefits with Packs. The purpose of this was to ensure that account holders received similar 
insurance cover to the existing packaged account but gave account holders the choice to not 
add the Packs, if they no longer needed the cover included.
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Miss M. The first letter dated 29 
September 2016, explained that her existing Additions Active package would be removed on 
13 January 2017, and that Tech and Travel Packs will be added to the account for a cost of 
£18.00 per month. The letter explained that if Miss M was happy with the changes, she 
neednt do anything, but said if she didnt want both or one of the Packs, or wanted a 
different Pack added to her account, she needed to contact Barclays before 12 January 
2017.
Barclays then sent another letter dated 20 January 2017 explaining that the changes had 
taken place. The letter reminded Miss M that the Packs were optional and that they could be 
removed at any time.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I dont find Miss Ms testimony to be particularly 
plausible. There is no evidence of the telephone call that Miss M says happened. But there 
is clear evidence that the two Packs were added to Miss Ms account due to an account 
migration that was taking place on all Additions Active accounts (the packaged account that 
Miss M had). And the Packs were added to Miss Ms account around the time that the 
migration letters said they would be.
As such, I dont find it likely that Barclays told Miss M that she must add the two Packs to her 
account, given that it had written to her saying they will be added to her account but 
explained she could opt out of them, that they werent compulsory and that they could be 
cancelled at any time.
I note that when Miss M originally complained to Barclays, she said that she was not living at 
the address that Barclays had registered for her, as she was required to move out due to 
domestic abuse. 
Im really sorry to hear about Miss Ms circumstances and, given what Miss M has told us, I 
do appreciate that there mayve been a period of time when she may not have had access to 
letters that Barclays were sending her. 
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, Miss M says that she thinks she mayve 
already moved out of her address when the letters were sent in 2016 and January 2017. 
However, Miss M originally told Barclays that shed moved out between 2018 and 2020. And 
Barclays had evidence to show that she was living elsewhere (from the address it had 
registered for her) between June 2018 and August 2019. So all the evidence (including Miss 
Ms original testimony) does indicate that Miss M was still living at the address, and therefore 
receiving, the letters that were sent to her in 2016 and early 2017.
So taking everything into account, whilst Im sorry to hear about Miss Ms circumstances, Im 
unable to say that the Tech and Travel Packs were mis-sold. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman