DRN-3907059
The complaint
Mr P and Miss W complain that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) 
settled a claim and sold the salvage of their car without their agreement, under their motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P and Miss Ws car was damaged in November 2021. They contacted Watford to make a 
claim. Shortly afterwards they told it theyd received confirmation that the repairs could be 
completed for £1,100 plus VAT. In early December Watford collected and arranged for an 
inspection of the damaged vehicle. Its engineer considered it to be an economic write-off 
based on the cost of repairs against its market value. 
Mr P and Miss W queried having the damage inspected independently. Watford advised an 
additional excess fee was payable if a non-approved garage was used for repairs, also that it 
couldnt guarantee the repairs or provide a courtesy car if this option was used. But it agreed 
to take Mr P and Miss Ws car to their chosen garage so that it could inspect the damage 
fully. 
The car was subsequently returned to Mr P and Miss Ws address in error. They say by this 
time, as they were moving home, they had no time to arrange an inspection at their chosen 
garage. But that they would provide a new quote once they had finished moving. 
Mr P and Miss W complained that their cars interior was dirty when it was returned. Watson 
asked for a cleaning invoice for it to consider. This wasnt provided. The claim didnt then 
progress until May 2022 when Mr P and Miss W made contact again. A settlement figure 
was requested. Watford received contact from Mr P and Miss Ws finance provider in June. It 
said Mr P and Miss W had informed it of the ongoing claim. The finance company confirmed 
the finance arrangement had £5,475.46 outstanding. After reconsidering its initial valuation 
of Mr P and Miss Ws car, Watson paid the finance company £4,385 less £405 excess fee 
and £85.04 in outstanding premiums. 
Mr P and Miss W say they didnt give Watford permission for their car to be sold-off as 
salvage. They say the car was in perfect working order other than some minor repairs. They 
say they couldve arranged these repairs for just over £1,000. They also say that Watfords 
actions left them severely out of pocket. This included the cost of train and bus travel. Mr P 
says this also affected his job. 
Watford says it told Mr P and Miss W it would need written permission from their finance 
provider if they were considering retaining the vehicle. It says it didnt update them on the 
increased settlement amount when it re-evaluated this in July 2022. But an outstanding 
balance was still left on the finance owed. In these circumstances it says an update isnt 
generally required. 
In its complaint response Watford says it didnt receive a quote from Mr P and Miss Ws 
choice of repairer. But it concedes it didnt update them with its revised settlement. It says 
this impacted on the option for Mr P and Miss W to arrange the repairs at their choice of 
garage. Watford also says it initially offered one weeks hire car rental without charge. But as 
the policy had cancelled it couldnt honour this. Because of these issues it offered £250 
compensation. 
Mr P and Miss W didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint in part. She says Watford deducted £405 for the policy 
excess, when this should be £320. She says the difference should be paid to the finance 
company or Mr P and Miss W if the finance company authorises this. 
Mr P and Miss W didnt agree with this outcome. They maintain Watford didnt contact them 
before selling their car, which has caused financial and emotional stress. Because they 
didnt agree they asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr P and Miss Ws complaint in part. I wont be 
adding to the remedy our investigator set out. I understand this will be a disappointment to 
them. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr P and Miss W confirmed they obtained a repair estimate for just over £1,000. This was 
significantly lower than Watfords engineer thought it would cost to complete the repairs. The 
engineer calculated repairs at £4,437.75 and valued the car, based on an industry trade 
guide, at £4,387. This meant Watford considered the car was an economic write-off. As 
discussed, the valuation was later increased slightly to £4,435.75. But this was still less than 
the estimated cost of the repairs. 
Mr P and Miss W havent complained about the valuation of their car in their referral to our 
service. The concerns raised are about Watfords decision to sell the salvage of their car 
without informing them. My focus here, is whether Watford acted fairly in this regard. 
I can see that Watford confirmed the additional excess fee that was applicable if Mr P and 
Miss W used their own choice of repairer. This information is detailed in their policy terms. 
From the records it was also explained that Watford couldnt guarantee the work if this option 
was chosen. 
Mr P and Miss Ws car was delivered back to them. Albeit this shouldve gone to their garage 
for a full assessment. As this happened close to the time they were due to move home, I can 
understand why they didnt get the opportunity to visit the garage. 
I think its fair that Watford gave Mr P and Miss W the opportunity to provide a full estimate 
for the repairs from their chosen repairer. Its also reasonable that it has the opportunity to 
validate the repairs and costs prior to agreeing cover. I can see that Mr P and Miss W 
advised they would be providing a quote from a garage closer to their new home. However, I 
cant see that this happened. 
From its records, Watfords agent commented on dirty boot prints on the interior of Mr P and 
Miss Ws car. This was identified from the photos they provided. I think its fair that it offered 
to refund the cost of cleaning. But I cant see that an invoice was provided for it to base a 
refund on, as it requested. It was around five months later that Mr P and Miss W continued with their claim. They had 
informed their finance provider by this point. I can see from a record dated 24 May 2022 that 
Mr P queried why a salvage fee was being deducted as he wasnt looking to retain the 
vehicle. Ive also read an email the finance provider sent to Watford around this time that 
says a hire purchase agreement was in place. In this email the finance provider requested 
details about the claim and valuation of the vehicle. 
In July 2022 Watford requested confirmation of the amount owed to the finance provider. 
This was confirmed as £5,475.46. The records show that Mr P and Miss W raised concerns 
about Watfords valuation of their car at this time. They also mention the possibility of 
retaining it. The records show Mr P and Miss W were told they would need to provide written 
permission from their finance company for this to happen. 
A settlement payment was subsequently paid to the finance provider for £4,047.50, after 
deduction of the policy excess. The salvage of Mr P and Miss Ws car was then sold by 
Watford as a category-N write-off. 
Ive thought carefully about whether Watford treated Mr P and Miss W fairly in its handling of 
this matter. 
The business arranged for an engineer to inspect the damage. He reported damage to the 
right-hand side of Mr P and Miss Ws car. This required repairs to the front and rear doors. 
He reported that the seat belt warning light was activated  and referred to the possibility of 
further unseen damage. An estimated repair cost of £4,435.75 was advised. I can see from 
the records that Watford raised concerns with the estimate of around £1,000 that Mr P and 
Miss W say they were quoted by a local garage. But as discussed, a further quote wasnt 
provided from a garage closer to their new address. 
I can see that Watford used the industry trade guides to obtain a market value for Mr P and 
Miss Ws car. Based on the estimated repair cost, I dont think its decision to categorise the 
car as a total loss was unreasonable. I note Mr P and Miss Ws comments that prior to 
sending the car back to Watford, it was in perfect driving condition. They say this clearly 
shows the car wasnt a write-off. I acknowledge what they say, but their car was considered 
to be a category-N total loss. Its possible to repair a category-N vehicle and return it to the 
road. But due to the cost of repairing the car to its pre-loss condition, Watford says it wasnt 
economically viable to do this. Based on what Ive read I dont think this was unreasonable.    
Ive thought about Mr P and Miss Ws comments that they wouldve rejected the increased 
settlement figure had they been informed of this. But in this case Mr P and Miss Ws car was 
financed under a hire-purchase arrangement. This means the finance provider owned the 
car. Watfords agent confirmed retention of the car wasnt a decision for it or Mr P and Miss 
W to make. The finance provider was the legal owner of the vehicle and remained so until 
the vehicle finance was cleared.
Watford told Mr P and Miss W on 11 July 2022 that they needed to provide written 
permission from their finance provider in order to allow them to retain the salvage of the car. 
As discussed, I cant see that this was provided. A BACS payment was eventually sent to 
the finance provider on 25 July for the market value of the car minus the policy excess.   
Having considered what happened I think Watfords actions are supported by its policy 
terms, which say:
Settlement
If You are still paying for Your Car under a hire purchase or leasing agreement We, may at Our discretion, and where appropriate, pay a claim for the total loss of Your Car to the hire 
purchase or leasing company.    
As the legal owner of the vehicle, it was the finance providers decision whether Mr P and 
Miss W could retain salvage of the vehicle. Written permission for this was requested and 
not provided. So, I dont think Watford behaved unfairly here. 
From the claim records Mr P and Miss W were initially offered £150 compensation for 
Watfords failure to advise them of the final settlement payment. It was then agreed to 
provide one weeks car hire instead of £150. Shortly after this was agreed Watford told them 
it couldnt do this as the policy had been cancelled after the total loss settlement. Watford 
then offered to increase its compensation payment to £250.
I acknowledge Mr P and Miss W were inconvenienced as a result of having no car. However, 
their policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car in the event that their vehicle is determined a 
total loss. That said Watford did promise to provide a hire car and so I think a compensation 
payment was reasonable. I think £250 is fair.   
Finally, I can see Watford deducted £405 excess from the settlement payment. The policy 
schedule says this should be £320. We asked Watford to clarify the correct amount was 
deducted from the settlement fee. It responded. But didnt clearly explain why a larger 
excess was taken than shows in the policy schedule. Because of this discrepancy it should 
demonstrate it deducted the correct amount relating to the policy excess. If this is shown to 
be incorrect it should pay this to the finance provider, or Mr P and Miss W dependent on 
whether the finance agreement has been settled, or not. 
In summary I dont think Watford treated Mr P and Miss W unfairly when settling their claim 
in the way it did and providing a settlement payment direct to their finance provider. It did 
agree to provide a hire car, which it later couldnt do. But I think its offer of £250 
compensation is fair to acknowledge this point. It should pay this to Mr P and Miss W if it 
hasnt already. But Watford hasnt shown that it deducted the correct policy excess, which it 
must now do or provide a payment to offset the discrepancy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited should:
demonstrate it deducted the correct policy excess from the settlement payment or 
provide a payment to offset the discrepancy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman