DRN-3690925
The complaint
Ms S has complained that CLAIMS (London) Ltd (CLL) charged her a fee when she 
wanted to cancel her agreement with them  even though theyd advertised their services on 
a no win, no fee basis.
What happened
In 2018, Ms S responded to a newspaper advert placed by CLL, inviting people to contact 
them if theyd received poor investment advice.  CLL sent her a claim pack, which included 
their terms and conditions.  CLL offered their services on a no win, no fee basis.  Their 
terms and conditions set out that theyd receive a fee equivalent to 40% plus VAT of any 
sums recovered.
CLL prepared a claim for submission to a bank Ill call B.  B told CLL theyd need an updated 
letter of authority to deal with them.  CLL sent this to Ms S for signature.  But, despite 
chasing her for many months, Ms S didnt return this.
Eventually, CLL wrote to Ms S, warning her that, if she didnt reply, they would consider the 
contract cancelled and make a cancellation charge in line with their terms and conditions.  In 
response, Ms S phoned CLL and said she did want to cancel the contract.  CLL told her a 
cancellation fee would be payable.  But she wouldnt have to pay this if she continued her 
claim and returned the signed authority allowing them to proceed.
Despite CLL pressing her for a response, Ms S didnt provide a fresh authority.  So CLL sent 
her an invoice for cancellation fees of £373.09, inclusive of VAT.  About two months later, 
Ms S phoned CLL and offered to pay them £150 (inclusive of VAT) to settle the invoice.  CLL 
accepted.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought her complaint to us.  She told us she 
didnt think it was fair shed been charged a fee for cancellation when the agreement shed 
signed was made on a no win, no fee basis.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded CLL didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  He looked at the terms and conditions Ms S signed and noted they contained an 
agreement by her to reply to CLLs information requests.  And they went on to say that, if 
she didnt do that, CLL could terminate the agreement and charge her their reasonable 
costs, based on the time theyd spent on her claim.
The investigator was satisfied that CLL had requested information from Ms S which shed 
not provided, despite being asked to do so a number of times.  So he said it was fair for 
them to charge the cancellation fee.
Ms S didnt agree with the investigators view and said that the telephone conversations 
shed had with CLL didnt reflect their written terms and conditions.  Ive now been asked to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
When Ms S first contacted CLL, she agreed to their terms and conditions.  Ive looked at 
these.  They clearly say CLLs fee will be 40% of any compensation paid, plus VAT.
Ms S hasnt disputed she signed those terms.  But she said she wanted to cancel the 
contract and not pursue a claim.  I understand her position to be that, as she didnt win 
anything, she shouldnt have to pay a fee.
If shed pursued her claim and it hadnt been successful, Id agree.  But thats not what 
happened.  Ms S wanted to cancel her contract  although it was actually CLL that 
cancelled.  The terms and conditions set out what would happen if there was a cancellation.  
And they have the same effect regardless of who cancelled.
Clause 3 of the contract says:
a.  I/we agree to help CLAIMS as far as possible by providing information relevant to my/our 
complaint and undertake to respond promptly to requests for information from CLAIMS.
e. I/we understand that when I/we fail to comply with my/our obligations above CLAIMS will 
give me/us a reasonable opportunity to remedy the breach where possible. In the event of 
material breaches or those that cannot be remedied CLAIMS reserves the right the terminate 
the contract and charge its reasonable costs based on the time spent on the claim calculated 
as detailed at section 6a of this agreement.
Clause 6a sets out that a cancellation fee would be based on the time spent on a case by 
the different grades of staff.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen CLL prepared Ms Ss claim and made efforts to contact her 
for information to progress it.  These efforts were made over a prolonged period before CLL 
concluded CLL wasnt co-operating with them.  So I think it was fair for them to cancel the 
contract and charge her a cancellation fee, in line with clause 3.e of their terms.
Ms S has said that CLL gave her different information when she spoke to them from what 
was in the terms and conditions.  The investigator obtained call recordings from CLL which 
Ive listened to.  
I heard Ms S state very clearly that she didnt want to continue her claim and wanted to 
cancel her contract.  And I heard the CLL staff tell her that, if she did that, shed be charged 
a fee.  But if she signed the letter of authority allowing them to pursue her claim, theyd only 
make a charge if that was successful.
The calls Ive listened to are consistent with the information on the terms and conditions.  So 
I dont think its fair for me to say CLL shouldnt charge Ms S a cancellation fee.  I can see 
that theyve agreed a significant discount to that fee as a gesture of goodwill.  But I dont 
think they need to do any more to resolve Ms Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ss complaint about CLAIMS (London) 
Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman