DRN-1783280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about various aspects of their endowment policy now held with Sun 
Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. Their complaint concerns the sale of the 
policy and their concerns about the performance and cost of their policy compared with a 
policy Mr D took out two years earlier. 
This decision only deals with the differences in the cost and performance of this policy 
compared with Mr D's policy. I have already issued a separate decision about the sale of the 
policy, deciding it was brought to our service out of time. So I won't be commenting on any 
areas of the suitability of the policy within this decision.  
What happened
In 1995 Mr D took out a single life endowment policy for the repayment of a mortgage. The 
policy was set up with a sum assured of £122,000 over a term of 25 years. The policy had a 
monthly premium of £255.85 and was invested 50% into the Schroders Life fund and 50% 
into the Perpetual Life fund. 
Two years later, Mr D took out a further endowment policy for repaying a mortgage. This 
time the policy was taken out with Mrs D and it provided joint life cover and was set up with a 
sum assured of £225,000 over a 25-year term. The policy had a monthly premium of 
£484.92 and was invested 100% into the Balanced Managed fund. 
Over the years Mr and Mrs D have been sent annual statements, fund performance 
information, and since 2000, projection letters of what the policies were projected to achieve 
at maturity. In 2005/6 Mr and Mrs D complained about the sale of the policy - which was 
time-barred by Lincoln (the policy provider at the time), from high risk warning letters issued.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs D complained again. Their complaint concerned the sale of the policy 
and its performance compared with Mr D's earlier policy. Sun Life refused to reconsider the 
complaint about the sale of the policy as a response had already been given. And it gave an 
explanation for the differences in the policies. 
Our investigator was satisfied Sun Life had provided an adequate explanation of the 
differences, including the different lives covered, the different sum assured's, start dates and 
funds invested into. 
Mr and Mrs D have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
feel this office is siding with the industry at every turn; an adequate explanation hasn't been 
provided; this office has just accepted Sun Life's position; the policies' descriptions are 
near/identical and so the performance should be also; Mr D's policy is set to achieve what it 
was set up to achieve yet the later policy is performing much worse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about their complaint. But I can only uphold it if I find 
that Sun Life has done something wrong. 
Poor performance of itself isn't evidence that something has gone wrong. Both policies are 
investments that are reliant on the underlying funds and investments performing at a certain 
level in order for the sum assured to be reached. I'm not aware of either policy containing a 
guarantee or otherwise as to how it would perform. So although Mr and Mrs D might have 
had positive expectations for the policy, that it hasn't performed as well as they'd hoped for 
or anticipated, isn't reason enough for me to uphold this complaint. 
Mr D has cited the performance of his existing policy as evidence that something has gone 
wrong. Having considered the matter carefully, I disagree. Although both policies are 
'Outlook for Mortgages' policies, and both contain the same product description about being 
a unit-linked savings policy that can be used as a method to repay a mortgage, which 
provides a guaranteed amount after the policyholder/s die, that is where the similarities end. 
I have set out a below the differences between the two policies:
Mr D's policy ending 22-03                                               Mr and Mrs D's policy ending 52-89
Sum assured £122,000                                                    Sum assured £225,000
Premium £225.85                                                             Premium £484.92
Fund 50% Schroders 50% Perpetual                               Fund 100% Balanced Managed
Start date 1995 - 25 year term                                          Start date 1997 - 25 year term
Mr D's policy started two years before the later policy taken out jointly. It therefore had two 
years of investing before the second policy had started. The second policy is providing twice 
the amount of life cover, to cover twice the people. I think its reasonably understood by most 
people that providing life cover for twice the sum, to cover twice the people will cost far 
more. Therefore, the life cover costs - which are paid for by way of deductions from the units 
(as explained in the policy literature) - are far higher than with Mr D's policy, leaving less for 
investment. 
The two policies are also invested into different funds.  Mr D's policy is invested 50% in the 
Schroders Life fund and 50% into the Perpetual Life fund, whereas the joint policy is 
invested 100% into the Balanced Managed fund. Mr and Mrs D were sent regular fund 
performance updates which also explained where the funds were invested and what the 
growth had been. 
The Balanced Managed fund and Schroders Life fund are both invested into UK and 
international equities, UK and Global fixed interest and property. The Perpetual Life fund is 
only invested into International equities. So the funds invested into across the two policies 
are different. And the fund performance information sent to Mr and Mrs D show how the 
funds have performed. For exampled for 2014/2015 year the Balanced Managed fund 
performed at 9.2% whereas Schroders Life performed at 8.8% and Perpetual Life at 11%. 
The 2013/2014 year the Balanced Managed performed at 4.4%, whereas the Schroders Life 
performed at 7.4% and Perpetual Life 10.9. The growth experienced by the policies has 
been different - largely because they are invested into different areas. And this goes a long 
way to explain why the policies have performed differently. 
As Mr and Mrs D know, both policies contain life cover; it is a requirement for the policies to 
be qualifying for tax purposes. The life cover is paid for by way of deductions from the unit holding within each policy. The cost of the cover is dependent on several factors at the time 
of deduction, such as mortality rates and the value of the policy. By way of an explanation, 
Mr D's policy has a sum assured of £122,000 which means that on death that is the amount 
payable under the policy. If the policy has a fund value of £50,000 then Sun Life would need 
to pay out an additional £72,000 to meet the death benefit. But, if the value of the policy is 
lower, say £20,000, then Sun Life would need to meet £102,000 and so the cost of life cover 
higher - because it costs more to provide £102,000 of cover than it does £72,000. This is 
how all endowment policies work. 
There is no requirement for Mr and Mrs D to be told the cost of life cover, and how it is paid 
for was set out in the policy literature. The statements sent annually also remind them the 
policies contain life cover. 
As already explained, and has been shown by the fund performance information sent to Mr 
and Mrs D, the joint policy hasn't performed as well as the single life policy. This means the 
gap between the value of the policy and the sum assured is higher, and so the life cover 
costs more. In fact, Mr D's policy reached the target sum a few years ago, and all the time 
the policy value is £122,000 or more, there will be no deduction from the units for life cover  
meaning there is more for investment.
Mr and Mrs D believe Sun Life should have done more to alert them to the poor performance 
of the joint life policy. They were sent fund performance information every year. And I'm 
aware they have continued to be sent high risk warning letters for their joint policy whereas 
Mr D's policy has been on track for a number of years. I'm satisfied Sun Life has done 
enough to alert them to the poor performance of the policy. I understand Mr and Mrs D think 
Sun Life should have done more, such as telephone them. But I don't think such an 
expectation is reasonable and certainly isn't something we would expect it to do. 
As explained poor performance is not, of itself, evidence that something has gone wrong. 
That a set of decisions by fund managers has, in hindsight, not turned out as well as 
different decisions might, doesn't mean the fund managers have acted incorrectly or 
negligently. And Mr and Mrs D haven't provided any persuasive evidence to show the fund 
managers have been negligent in carrying out their duties. 
Mr and Mrs D have known for some considerable time that their policy was not performing 
well - they complained in 2005/6 about the sale and have received a number of high risk 
alerts since. They continued investing in the policy in the knowledge that it wasn't performing 
well and was at high risk of not reaching the target amount on maturity. I'm satisfied they 
were provided with sufficient information about that to enable them to take action, such as 
switching funds. It follows that I find no basis on which to uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman