DRN-4466311
The complaint
Mr M complains that IG Markets Limited gave him incorrect information about whether it 
could provide him a tax statement. By the time he was told that this information was 
incorrect, he had already paid a professional to calculate his tax liability. However, IG 
Markets Limited only offered to reimburse a portion of his costs. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr M contacted IG to request a tax statement. He was told that IG didnt 
provide this service. He was unhappy with this response because he said that CFDs gave 
rise to Capital Gains Tax (CGT), other brokers offered this service and he wouldve gone to 
another broker had he known IG didnt offer this.  
IG looked into Mr Ms complaint and agreed to uphold it. It said that what he was told was 
incorrect, and that IG did provide a tax statement for use in calculating CGT liability. It 
initially offered him £50 compensation for the inconvenience the incorrect information had 
caused him. Mr M explained that he had hired an accountant, and the agreed fee was 
£1,500 plus VAT  he said that he wouldnt have done this but for IGs incorrect information. 
IG considered his request for a full reimbursement of his accountants fees but didnt agree 
that was fair. It said it was clear that the service he had paid for was not only to do with his 
trades with IG, but also with other matters and said it was likely Mr M had other income 
which wouldve been included in the tax accounts. It also said that whilst Mr M hadnt 
received the tax document he asked for initially, he had received confirmations of all the 
trades he had placed with IG  and the summary of his account and his trades was 
accessible online. Taking all this into account, it therefore agreed to pay £800 contribution 
towards the costs of hiring an accountant.  
Mr M didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into his complaint, but didnt think it would be fair to ask IG to pay the full fee. In summary, 
he said that Mr M did have the information available to him, even if it wasnt in the format he 
wanted. The investigator concluded that it therefore wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask 
IG to pay for all the fees associated with hiring an accountant. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He asked the ombudsman to decide what IG ought 
be compelled to pay, and make such an award. And he asked whether hed be entitled to 
interest on any outstanding amount since raising his complaint until the settlement date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr Ms letter of engagement that the fee of £1,500 plus VAT was to cover two 
years tax returns  2019/20 and 2020/21. The letter of engagement is dated 8 September 
2021. 
Ive considered Mr Ms request to have the full fee refunded, but I dont agree that would be 
fair and reasonable. I say this for the following reasons. 
In principle, I agree with IG that its likely Mr Ms tax returns were not prepared solely on the 
basis of Mr Ms trading. For example, I can see that his trading tax statement for 2020/21 
showed a loss, and with or without statement, I dont think its likely Mr M thought hed made 
a profit for which hed have needed to pay capital gains tax. It may be he needed information 
on the exact size of his losses to properly offset gains made on other investments  Mr M 
hasnt specified. If thats true, then its clear that IG is right that Mr M didnt hire an 
accountant solely to calculate his tax liability in relation to his trading with IG  but also to 
calculate any other income or investment gains hed made in the relevant tax years. 
But regardless, as far as I can see from the tax statement IG provided, Mr M made 18 trades 
between 9 April 2020 and 9 December 2020. So Im satisfied that purely based on the 
statements of his account, he ought to have been able to calculate his profit or loss. Im not 
persuaded he needed to hire a professional for that, even if the information was in a different 
or less easy to read format. I acknowledge there were other transactions, mainly interest and 
dividend debits  but these only amounted to around £1,100, versus trading losses of over 
£59,000. So Im satisfied it would still have been possible for Mr M to work out his losses for 
the year based on the information he wouldve had at his disposal, even if it wasnt in the 
form of a tax statement from IG.  
Im also aware that deadlines for providing this information to the relevant authority are 31 
October for paper statements, and 31 January to do it online. This means that Mr M had 
ample time to wait for IG to respond to his complaint, before proceeding to hiring an 
accountant and incurring further costs. If he had waited, or otherwise asked IG to expedite 
his complaint in view of his need to file his tax return, he wouldve received the information 
from IG that he was after and would not have incurred the additional costs. 
All that being said, I do agree that Mr M was inconvenienced by being given the wrong 
information, and I accept his evidence that he was not intending on hiring an accountant but 
for IGs incorrect information. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied it wouldnt be right to 
ask IG to foot the entire bill for the accountants services  but Im satisfied its offer of £800 
is fair and reasonable. Although it isnt clear from the papers, Im also satisfied that this offer 
includes the original offer of £50 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused Mr M. I 
therefore make no separate award for that. 
Mr M has asked about interest on this sum, but I dont agree that would be fair. This service 
normally awards 8% per year simple interest on sums where a business is responsible for a 
consumer being out of pocket or being deprived of a cash sum. In this case, whilst I accept 
Mr M relied on IGs actions, and took some steps which were to his detriment, for the 
reasons Ive given Im not persuaded Mr Ms losses were entirely attributable to IGs mistake 
 and I consider that Mr M had opportunities to avoid hiring an accountant. So I dont 
consider it would be fair to ask IG to add interest to the contribution it has offered towards 
the costs of his accountant. 
Putting things right
To put things right, IG must:
Pay Mr M £800, as a contribution towards the professional fees he incurred following 
IGs mistaken informationMy final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and award the compensation Ive outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman