DRN-3020647
The complaint
Mrs H says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her.
  
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans LaH provided to Mrs H between 
December 2014 and October 2017.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 10/12/2014 £600.00 52 25/11/2015
2 25/11/2015 £800.00 50 19/10/2016
3 19/10/2016 £700.00 45 18/10/2017
4 11/01/2017 £250.00 45 outstanding
5 18/10/2017 £500.00 45 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. He thought that LaH shouldnt have approved the 
lending from loan 3 onwards. This is because he thought that the lending pattern by loan 3 
showed that it was likely Ms H was reliant on the lending. 
LaH disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me. It said that it didnt understand why 
it was unsustainable for a customer to borrow for 22 months. Consumers often use this type 
of product in a similar way to a credit card. And they have limited options to borrow from 
other lenders. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mrs H could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Mrs H didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs H had with 
LaH. And they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 3 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself demonstrates that further lending would likely to be unsustainable. 
I think that 22 months is too long a time for Mrs H to be using high cost credit for a number of 
reasons. So, I think LaH was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. Ill explain why 
below. 
LaH used both Mrs H and her partners income in its affordability checks. And it assumed the 
household expenditure was split equally. But its not certain if Mrs H would have access to 
her partners income or how much of the household bills she would pay. So, I dont think that 
LaH did enough to assess her income and expenditure before lending. 
I dont have much information about Mrs Hs income and expenditure. But its reasonable to 
say that the information LaH had showed that Mrs Hs income was modest and its unlikely 
that she would have been able to afford the loan repayments herself. So I dont think that 
LaH has demonstrated that the loans were affordable for her.
And Mrs Hs repayment history over the early part of the lending suggests that making the 
loan repayments was causing her difficulty. As LaH acknowledges her repayment history 
was poor in the early part of this lending. And whilst at times she was able to make the 
repayments on time I dont think its reasonable to say she could afford these repayments. 
So by loan 3 LaH shouldve realised that Mrs H wasnt making her loan repayments 
sustainably. The length of time she had been borrowing, and the frequency of the loans and 
the amounts she was repaying all support this. And so LaH shouldnt have lent to her going 
forward. 
Ive considered the points LaH made in response to the adjudicators view. LaHs response 
concerns our approach to this type of lending, and this in particular repeat lending. This 
Service has responded to LaH on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has 
received, and the published decisions on our website. These explain why repeat usage of 
this type of credit can be problematic, and I think this applies here. 
And I think its reasonable to say these arent new points  theyre factors already taken into 
account in the adjudicators assessment, and they dont demonstrate to me that the lending 
from loan 3 was sustainable. So, the points raised by LaH havent changed my decision. And 
Im not going deal with these more general points here.
Im upholding this complaint about loans 3 to 5. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs H from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mrs H loans 3 to 5.
If LaH has sold the outstanding debts LaH should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LaH is not able to buy the debts back then LaH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs H towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs H having made 
overpayments then LaH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LaH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mrs H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LaH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H. LaH shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal LaH has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mrs Hs borrowing for loans 3 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Hs credit file. LaH 
does not have to remove loans 4 and 5 from Mrs Hs credit file until these have been repaid, 
but LaH should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Mrs 
H a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman