DRN-3649702
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) when trying to access his online banking using their facial recognition software. 
What happened
Mr S holds a bank account with NatWest. In April 2022 he attempted to make a payment 
using biometric facial recognition software within NatWests online banking platform. 
However, the software failed to recognise Mr Ss face, and as a result it took a number of 
hours for him to have his payment processed, and for the software to be removed from his 
phone. So, Mr S complained. 
NatWest considered Mr Ss complaint, and accepted there were shortcomings in the service 
provided, for which they apologised. They explained theyd since processed Mr Ss payment, 
and had requested the facial recognition feature be removed from his digital banking 
services. They also explained how Mr S could remove this himself, albeit I understand Mr S 
faced further difficulty with this. 
NatWest agreed to pay Mr S £50 by way of an apology for the shortfall in the service 
provided. But Mr S felt this was insufficient, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the matter and was satisfied the difficulties Mr S experienced 
were as a result of failings with NatWests systems, for which he felt Mr S should be 
compensated. But he said that as NatWest had since removed the software, apologised, and 
offered Mr S £50 by way of compensation, in the circumstances, he felt this was fair. 
But Mr S remained unhappy and said the compensation didnt accurately reflect the time 
spent dealing with the matter. So, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Mr S was put to some inconvenience is not in dispute. NatWest already agree 
that they were at fault in this matter. And for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that the 
inconvenience Mr S experienced was as a result of a system failing for which NatWest are 
responsible. 
But just because a customer experiences inconvenience, this doesnt always mean that 
compensation is due. And in some instances, we might deem that fixing the issue along with 
an apology is sufficient, dependant on the circumstances. 
In this case however, it does seem Mr S did experience a reasonable level of inconvenience, 
given that hes told us he spent around three hours trying to arrange for both the payment to 
be sent, and for the facial recognition service to be removed from his banking software to 
prevent any future problems. So, Im satisfied that some compensation is due. 
But while Mr S was put to some inconvenience, it does seem that the issues he experienced 
were resolved on the same day they occurred. And not only was the payment sent that day, 
action was also taken to arrange for the recognition software to be removed from his digital 
banking services at the same time. 
I appreciate Mr S values his time at more than around £16 per hour, but its important to 
recognise that customers may face issues at times with financial service providers. And 
when problems occur, we look to ensure that the business, where possible, put things right 
both quickly, and effectively  which Im satisfied they have in this case. And generally 
speaking, any award of compensation wouldnt usually look to reimburse a customer based 
on an hourly rate for their time. 
So, while I accept this will be disappointing for Mr S, Im satisfied NatWest have now dealt 
with the underlying issue, and have made a fair offer of compensation for the inconvenience 
Mr S was put to. So, NatWest should proceed with making this payment to Mr S if they 
havent already. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay Mr S £50 in 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Mr S £50 if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman