DRN-3105269
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as W complain that contrary to its instructions to allow one of 
its directors, access to only one of its business accounts, in error Barclays Bank UK PLC 
granted the director access to all of them. 
In bringing the complaint W is represented by Mrs G who on behalf of W had given the bank 
those instructions. 
 
What happened
 The background to the complaint is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, however, W has a number of business accounts with Barclays. In June 2018, on 
behalf of W, Mrs G gave instructions to Barclays to allow a fellow director, Ms H, access to 
one of Ws business accounts so that she could pay invoices and refund deposits paid to W. 
In December 2020 Ms H asked Barclays to fix an issue she was experiencing with access to 
Ws on-line banking facility. For this to be done, Ms Hs existing access had to be removed 
temporarily and then reinstated. On reinstatement, however, and not realising the restriction 
to which Ms H was subject, Barclays gave Ms H unrestricted access to all the other accounts 
held by W. 
The banks error was put right within a couple of hours after Mrs G called Barclays to point 
out what had happened. Barclays apologised to W and paid £100 in compensation.  
W didnt believe Barclays system for the protection of its accounts was fit for purpose 
because it said a similar incident had happened before for which the bank apologised and 
promised it wouldnt happen again. W said the bank had caused a breach of Ws data and 
should pay substantial compensation, in addition to ensuring that it operated a more secure 
system. 
Barclays believed that having acknowledged and apologised for their error and paid £100 
compensation, theyd done enough to put things right. W disagreed and referred its 
complaint to this service. 
In their submission to us Barclays amplified their reasons for believing theyd done enough 
to compensate W. 
In summary they said: 
Limiting Ms Hs access in the way W wanted couldnt be readily accommodated 
within the banks systems. So, in order to do so they had to find a work-around that 
wasnt automated. That being the case there was the inherent risk of human error 
which was what occurred in December 2020 when Ms Hs access was reinstated by 
an employee.  
Its acknowledged the bank failed to protect Ws agreement with Ms H that she 
should only be allowed on-line access to one business account. Nonetheless, as a 
director of the W, Ms H had certain rights under the Companies Act 2006  such as 
the right to access Ws accounting records, including all the information held in its 
other bank accounts. Therefore, there was no data breach.  
Our investigator acknowledged there were system constraints which meant fulfilling Ws 
instructions was less straightforward for Barclays. But she didnt think it could be assumed 
as the bank suggested, that although Ms H, was a director she had any significant control 
over W and be in a position therefore to be fully aware of the financial position of the 
company. 
So, the investigator concluded Barclays had a responsibility to ensure that Ws instructions 
to limit Ms Hs access to its accounts were followed and to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that happened. She was persuaded that Ms Hs awareness of the funds in all Ws accounts, 
caused issues within W  including Ms Hs unease about restrictions on her own spending in 
light of what appeared to be sufficiently available funds.  In the circumstances, therefore the 
investigator recommended that Barclays pay an extra £150 in compensation. 
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation, but W did not. It didnt think the 
compensation recommended by the investigator fairly recognised the seriousness of the 
banks error. So, Ws complaint has been referred to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Barclays have accepted they made an error when they granted Ms H access to all Ws 
business accounts. And as noted above theyve agreed to pay the extra £150 compensation 
recommended by the investigator. 
So, what I have to decide is whether the amount when considered alongside what Barclays 
have already paid fairly compensate W for what the bank did wrong. 
I understand how personally upsetting Mrs G found the latest error by Barclays, particularly 
as she explained the bank had granted Ms H unauthorised access previously. 
But its worth noting this is a complaint brought on behalf of W about what the bank did 
wrong in December 2020. And whilst I appreciate Mrs G was understandably upset by what 
happened it is the impact of the banks actions on W, the limited company that I must 
consider. And to that end, I bear in mind that as a limited company W cannot suffer upset 
although it can be inconvenience by the banks actions.  
Barclays have been unable to say for sure whether Ms H did view all Ws other business 
accounts after she was given access. But Mrs G believes she might have done and for that 
reason argues the bank has been responsible for breaching Ws data. 
But its perhaps worth noting generally that data protection legislation which at different times 
included both the Data Protection Act and the General Data Protection Regulations only 
applied to data relating to individuals. So, in relation a limited company which W is, the 
protection doesnt apply. I appreciate W would like Barclays systems to be better able to prevent the same incident 
happening again. Barclays have explained that because they have to operate a work 
around to accommodate Ws wishes, they cannot eliminate the possibility that human error 
could lead to a recurrence. But I cannot compel Barclays to change their systems. Thats a 
matter for the banks own commercial discretion. 
That being said I agree with the investigator that this matter caused some inconvenience to 
W. Ms G had to spend time for example calling the bank to report its error and to ask it to put 
things right. But, the bank did so within a relatively short timeframe  within two hours. 
Also, Mrs G describes Ms H as a trusted colleague. So, although like the investigator, I also 
think following what happened theres likely to have been scope for tensions around 
allocated spending within W, given Mrs Gs description of Ms H it doesnt suggests Ms H 
would have behaved inappropriately.
Putting things right
 So, having considered this, I agree with the investigator that a payment of an additional 
£150 in this regard is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay W £150 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman