DRN-4049102
The complaint
Mr S complains  that ReAssure  Limited  caused  delays  when  he wished  to withdraw  
funds  from his pension  - meaning  he has lost out on tax efficiencies.
What happened
I set out the background to this case and my provisional findings in my provisional decision of 3 
March 2023. Ive included this below and it forms part of this decision:
Mr S had a pension  with ReAssure,  his normal  retirement  age was 60 on 21 March  2021.  
ReAssure  sent him a retirement  pack  six months  before  and a follow  up in January.  Mr S 
decided  he wished  to take 25% as tax free cash  and an additional  withdrawal  as income  
drawdown.
He told ReAssure  this on 15 February  and that he wanted  this done  before  the end of the tax 
year.  However,  ReAssure  made  a number  of errors  which  it has accepted  and failed  to make  
the payment  in time.  It also promised  a number  of call-backs  that weren't  actioned  in this time.
ReAssure  offered  £200  initially  as compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused  
and then a further  £200.  However,  it then delayed  the payment  of this as well, despite  giving  
Mr S assurances  of when  it would  be paid.  It wasn't  until our investigator  started  looking  into 
the case  and chased  ReAssure  for this payment  that it was finally  made.  The tax-free  cash  
payment  to Mr S was also delayed.
Our investigator  looked  into matters  and upheld  the complaint.  He said it was clear  that 
ReAssure  ought  to have  made  the payment  within  the 20/21  tax year.  In not doing  so it had 
deprived  Mr S of making  use of his personal  allowance  in that year.  And he'd missed  out on 
the use of those  funds  until it was paid later in the following  tax year.  This also meant  Mr S 
couldn't  make  a further  withdrawal  in the 21/22  tax year without  incurring  additional  tax. Mr S 
told us his plan was to withdraw  the maximum  each  year whilst  still remaining  under  his 
personal  allowance  until the fund was extinguished.  Our investigator  said ReAssure  should  
pay 8% on all the delayed  payments,  including  the £200  distress  and inconvenience  payment.  
And he said ReAssure  should  repay  any tax Mr S incurs  on any additional  withdrawal  in the 
21/22  tax year.
ReAssure  and Mr S accepted  this and the case  was closed.  But a month  later Mr S contacted  us 
to say ReAssure  hadn't  been  in contact,  our investigator  chased  ReAssure  for a response  but it 
didn't  respond  and so the case  had to be reopened  for a ombudsman's  decision.
Once  the decision  was assigned  to me I got in contact  with Mr S. And he's told us that nearly  
five months  after the case  was initially closed, ReAssure  did get in contact  with him. The letter  
said it had worked  out the redress  in-line  with the investigators view and paid him redress  
totaling  approximately £4,400.
What  I've provisionally  decided  - and why
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
It is very disappointing  that ReAssure  agreed  to resolve  the case  and then didn't  engage  at all 
with us or Mr S to calculate  and pay the award  recommended  (until  five months  later and 
without  informing  us). Especially  after all the mistakes,  errors  and delays  it had already  
accepted.
The crux of Mr S's complaint  was the initial  late payment  of his planned  20/21  withdrawal  
meant  that it moved  into the next tax-year  and he would  incur  additional  tax if he was to make  
that years  planned  withdrawal  as well. The investigator  said ReAssure  should  pay Mr S any 
tax he paid on the additional  withdrawal.  However,  looking  at what  ReAssure  said prior to 
agreeing  to close  the case,  it seemed  that Mr S rather  understandably  hadn't  made  the 
additional  withdrawal  within  the same  tax year (as he'd had no firm confirmation  that 
ReAssure  would  redress  the situation  at this point).  So, there  would  be no redress  payable  for 
this aspect  of the complaint.
I got in contact with Mr S as it now looked  like the redress  was out of date and provision  in the 
investigator's redress  hadn't  been  made  for Mr S waiting  longer  for his money. It was then that 
Mr S let me know  ReAssure  had made  a redress  payment  in January  this year.  After  
receiving  the redress  payment,  Mr S was still confused  and seemingly  felt he hadn't  received  
proper  redress.
Having  looked  at the calculations,  ReAssure  has attempted  to provide  redress  in line with 
what  the investigator  set out. However,  it had also refunded  tax totaling  over £3,700  to 
account  for Mr S making  his final withdrawal  to extinguish  his funds  in the 2021/2022  tax year 
as the investigator  had recommended  it should.  At the time of the recommendation  this was 
still a possibility  - but by the time it was agreed  the case  could  be settled  and closed,  a new 
tax year had started.
In reality,  Mr S didn't  withdraw  this money  until November  2022.  And therefore  he could  also 
reclaim  the tax on this payment  as it was under  his personal  allowance  and within  a new tax 
year.  So ReAssure  have  refunded  Mr Sa tax bill he never  suffered.  Given  it administers  his 
pension,  it would've  been  able to see that he hadn't  made  the withdrawal  in the same  tax year 
as the other  withdrawals.
The investigator  said ReAssure  should  pay 8% from when  the initial  withdrawal  ought  to have  
been  made  (before  end of April 2021  tax year)  until it was actually paid in September  2021.  
However,  Mr S seemingly felt the redress  ReAssure  paid him hadn't  fully compensated  him for 
the knock-on effect  of being  behind  by a year on his £12,000 withdrawals.  Mr S didn't withdraw  
that £12,000 until November  2022  (I'm not sure why he left it so late in the tax year).  But any 
additional  award  for loss of use of money  on top of what  ReAssure  has already  paid,  won't  
come  anywhere  close  to the sum ReAssure  has paid Mr S for a tax penalty  he didn't  incur.
So as Mr S has ended  up better  off due to ReAssure's  mistake,  and it has now paid redress  for 
the other  aspects  of the complaint,  there  is no further  award  required  to put things  right.
Both  parties  said they accepted  my provisional  decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further arguments, I see no reason to depart from the findings set 
out above in my provisional decision.My final decision
I do not require ReAssure Limited to do anything further to put things right. It has already 
compensated Mr S beyond what I wouldve awarded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman