DRN-3354728
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has made several errors 
on their retirement and investment accounts causing them distress and inconvenience.
Mr S is representing both himself and Mrs S who has separate accounts from Mr S. Any 
reference to Mr S will include information provided on behalf of Mrs S.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had several accounts with Aviva including their respective Self Invested 
Personal Pension accounts (SIPPs). Mr and Mrs Ss SIPPs were split into pre-retirement 
and post-retirement accounts. 
On 27 March 2018 Aviva issued a final response letter to Mr S in response to errors Mr S 
had identified. Aviva also paid Mr S compensation to cover fees for a move to another 
platform. Mr S didnt like changes that had been made to the Aviva platform. And he and 
Mrs S didnt want to use Avivas workaround to resolve the issues. So, Aviva offered to cover 
the cost of Mr and Mrs S moving their funds held in their respective pre-retirement accounts. 
In its final response letter it offered Mr and Mrs S the following in compensation: 
£1,000 total payment for distress and inconvenience. This was related to errors that 
Mr S had identified on his and Mrs Ss accounts up until March 2018.
£5,211  this payment was to compensate Mrs and Mr S for fees theyd incur using a 
new provider.
Mrs and Mr S were refunded a total of £86.88 paid for incorrect charges.
Shortly after this Mr S said he had identified at least 24 new errors to do with the valuations 
of his investments. He said he wanted further compensation for these errors. However, 
Aviva said it had already paid S £5,211 for Mr and Mrs S to move to a new provider to cover 
costs for doing so but ultimately, they (Mr and Mrs S) hadnt moved their respective 
accounts. So, Aviva said that it would not pay any further compensation for the errors Mr S 
referred to. However, it later said it would pay Mr and Mrs S a further £1,000 once they 
moved to a different provider.
Mr S declined this offer. He said he shouldnt have to wait for the payment and that he 
wanted to be paid for the time and effort hed spent on putting things right.
Our investigator thought that Aviva should pay the £1,000 even if Mr and Mrs S didnt move 
to a different provider. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022. In summary I said that Avivas offer was 
fair and reasonable for the following reasons: 
Whilst Mr S says he only accepted the March 2018 compensation, to cover for 
matters up to that point  the payment of £5,211 was made to cover the extra costs 
he and Mrs S would have incurred by moving to a new provider. As he and Mrs Ss 
accounts werent moved after receiving this payment, I consider it fair and 
reasonable that it is taken into account for the purposes of this decision.
As Aviva has said, it could have taken action to recover these funds but it waived this 
right on the basis that it would cover the further issues Mr S had identified.
I know Mr S has said the reason he didnt move was because of further errors by 
Aviva. But I cant see that the errors he identified after the March 2018 final response 
letter, prevented him and Mrs S from moving their accounts to another platform. 
Mr S says the impact of the errors was that it made it difficult for him to establish 
whether he would go over his Lifetime Allowance (LTA). But as he acknowledged 
himself, if Avivas errors had caused him to have a higher tax bill this is something he 
could have complained about and received proper compensation on the basis of 
actual loss.
Also as Mr S was doing his own valuations, which he says were correct, he did have 
information which enabled him to decide whether crystallising his pension was 
something he wanted to do. In the end Mr S did do this and has now used 99.5% of 
his LTA, so I dont think any inaccuracies in the valuations for his investments 
prevented him from making an informed choice, which included the choice to move to 
a new provider.
Mr S says he wants to be compensated for any fees or charges whilst he and Mrs S 
have been held captive on the Aviva platform. But I cant fairly say that Aviva has 
prevented either party from moving their respective accounts.
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence of financial loss, so I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to make an award on the basis of potential loss which may never have 
happened.
Whilst I understand Mr Ss position and the work he may have put into working out 
the values on his and Mrs Ss respective accounts, Im not persuaded he was forced 
by Aviva to do this amount of work. In any event, even if I were to accept the 
valuations were incorrect, I think the £5,211 already paid to and accepted by Mr and 
Mrs S, is more than I wouldve awarded for the time and effort put into checking the 
valuations. In addition, Aviva has offered a further £1,000 once Mr and Mrs S 
accounts are moved to a new provider.
Mr S says Avivas offer to only pay another £1,000 once he and Mrs S move their 
respective SIPPs to a new provider, is against the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA)  regulations. But even if this were the case, which I have no evidence to 
support, I think it is a fair offer. Mr S should note that whilst I need to take into 
account relevant laws, regulations and industry best practice, Im not bound by these. 
My decision is based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It 
is for Mr S on behalf of himself and Mrs S, to decide whether Avivas further offer of 
compensation, is something they wish to accept.
In summary, Mr S made the following points in response to my provisional decision:
The £5,211 he received from Aviva was based on him moving the pre-retirement 
accounts only because Avivas platform could no longer handle the transactions that 
the old platform could do. He said to move the whole portfolio would cost around £15,000. He said he never agreed to move the investment accounts or post-
retirement accounts away from Aviva.
The Ombudsman has confused this payment with a payment for distress and 
inconvenience.
The £1,000 Aviva agreed to pay if he and Mrs S moved their post-retirement 
accounts away is incorrect because it was never agreed to move these away.
He didnt agree he could move away from the Aviva platform which was confirmed in 
an email from Aviva dated 14 May 2019 which said: However, we also acknowledge 
that the reason you were unable to transfer was due to an Aviva system error and 
that you have experienced additional problems on our platform.
He shouldnt have to rely on his own calculations as a retail client.
He thought the inaccuracies meant he could have breached his LTA so he didnt 
want to change platforms because of this.
He did think he was forced to do his own calculations because he couldnt rely on 
Avivas data.
He found it offensive that the Ombudsman said: even if I were to accept the 
valuation were incorrect, as he said there were, in fact, incorrect valuations.
He would expect our service to follow the law and regulations.
He thought the point made by the Ombudsman about claiming for a higher tax bill 
was flawed.
Aviva also clarified some matters. They initially didnt think Mrs Ss accounts were included 
in the complaint but has now accepted that her complaint is part of this matter. It also 
provided statements for both Mr and Mrs Ss accounts. These showed all but the post-
retirement accounts had funds remaining. It also clarified its position on the compensation it 
offered. It said that the payment will only be made if Mr and Mrs S move their respective 
post-retirement accounts away from its platform as these accounts are the only accounts 
remaining. It thinks the £5,211 should be included in its offer as it wasnt used for its 
intended purpose by Mr and Mrs S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for the further information they have provided. But having re-considered 
everything, on the face of the evidence and on balance I think the offer made by Aviva is fair 
and reasonable and I wont be asking it to do anything further. In addition to what Ive said 
above, my reasons for my decision are set out below.
Before I explain my findings, I think its important to make clear that while I accept Mr S may 
want answers to every question hes asked, Im not required to provide answers to 
everything. No discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our 
service. I will instead focus my decision on what I think are the key issues. Further, where 
there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
In terms of what accounts were agreed to be moved away for which £5,211 was paid to Mr 
and Mrs S, Im satisfied this did relate to the pre-retirements accounts. This was made 
because Mr S didnt think the workaround Aviva had to use to move his investments to his 
post-retirement account, was something he and Mrs S wanted to be subject to. So, he 
wanted to move their accounts to a new platform which could perform as Aviva once did. 
Mr S calculated the costs of moving the pre-retirement accounts to another provider as 
totalling £5,211 for both his and Mrs Ss accounts. This payment was made but because Mr and Mrs S noticed more errors they didnt move their accounts.
So, I understand that at the time the offer was made, Mr and Mrs S wanted to move their 
pre-retirement accounts so they didnt have to use Avivas workaround. But regardless of 
what accounts the payment of £5,211 related to, the fact is Mr and Mrs Ss pre-retirement 
accounts were not moved in line with the offer made in the March 2018 final response letter.
Both pre-retirement accounts are no longer in use as they have zero balances. But I dont 
think the evidence supports that this was because Mr and Mrs S moved their pre-retirement 
accounts to another platform and/ or incurred the fees for which they were paid 
compensation. In fact, Mr S says he and Mrs S didnt move accounts due to the continued 
errors made by Aviva and that this has been admitted by Aviva in its email dated 14 May. 
Despite what Mr S says, I dont think, on balance, that any of the errors in themselves, 
prevented either him or Mrs S from moving their respective accounts. In any event, even if 
the errors had prevented them from moving platforms I dont think this makes Avivas current 
offer unfair.
I know Mr S has said he and Mrs Ss accounts have all now been moved other than their 
post-retirement accounts. But Aviva has clarified that the £1,000 offer is on condition of all 
the post-retirement accounts, which are the only accounts with remaining balances, are 
moved from its platform. With the background of the £5,211 payment being made and not 
used to cover the fees that would have been incurred if Mr and Mrs S had moved their pre-
retirement accounts, I think Avivas offer is fair and reasonable. 
I make no criticism of Mr and Mrs S for not moving their accounts after receipt of the £5,211. 
I just think that this payment wasnt needed to cover the estimated additional fees. So, whilst 
it was meant to be for financial loss, I think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to consider the 
payment to cover the distress and inconvenience given it wasnt used for the financial 
purpose for which it was paid. I think Avivas offer of a further £1,000, which it will only pay 
once the remaining accounts have been transferred from its platform, is fair and reasonable. 
It will be for Mr and Mrs S to decide whether they wish to accept this further offer. 
In terms of what I said about following laws and regulations, I do need to take these into 
account when reaching a determination. And I have done so. But Im not bound to follow the 
law or regulations where, in my opinion, based on all the facts, it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances to depart from them. In this case, Aviva has made 
several errors for which I consider it has made a reasonable offer. I dont think this is in 
breach of the FCAs regulations just because it is conditional.
I appreciate the time and effort Mr S has put into reviewing his and Mrs Ss accounts. And 
with dealing with this complaint. He has provided detailed submissions in support of his 
case. But I think the compensation outlined above, sufficiently covers him for this.
Im sorry that Mr S found it offensive when I said: even if I were to accept the valuations 
were incorrect. This certainly wasnt my intention. Mr S has provided more details of the 
errors he identified, which he says didnt all relate to valuations. From what I can see, the 
further information provided by Mr S has confirmed he and Mrs S havent suffered financially 
as any charges incorrectly made have been refunded. So, whilst I accept errors have been 
made by Aviva, Im satisfied the compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs S, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr S thinks the point I made about the higher tax bill was flawed. To date, he hasnt provided 
any evidence of a tax liability arising as a result of the errors he identified. He has maximised 
his LTA. I know he says he shouldnt have to do his own figures in order to have done this. But the point I was making in my provisional decision is that he hasnt suffered the financial 
loss he had concerns about. This could have potentially happened but didnt. And I think for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, Aviva has offered him and Mrs S fair compensation.
my final decision
My decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds offer to pay a further £1,000 to Mr 
and Mrs S for distress and inconvenience caused conditional on them transferring away from 
its platform, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman