DRN-3879813
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna declined his applications for finance 
when he had an available line of credit with it.
What happened
Mr L holds a Klarna card account which provides credit to make purchases with. The credit 
amount available is referred to as purchase power. Mr L tried to use Klarna to make 
purchases (both online and in store) to a company I shall call V. The credit purchases were 
inside the amount of purchase power Mr L had available, but the applications were declined.
 
Unhappy with this, Mr L complained to Klarna. Klarna responded and said that Mr L wasnt 
using his Klarna card when attempting the credit purchases. He was instead applying for 12-
month fixed term loans. These products arent related to the Klarna card and the purchase 
power. Klarna explained that when it assessed his applications, it considered a number of 
factors before declining. 
Mr L didnt agree and referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and concluded that Mr L was applying for fixed term credit, which 
was a separate product to his Klarna card. Klarna had taken the commercial decision to 
decline these applications, in line with its lending criteria. 
Mr L responded and said he had taken Klarnas advice to repay his outstanding balance and 
it still didnt change the outcome on subsequent applications. He said he had available credit 
and had always made payments on time, so the decision to decline wasnt fair and 
reasonable.
As Mr L disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Klarna has provided evidence of the applications Mr L made. These were between 17 and 
30 September 2022 and were all for 12-month fixed sum credit. I understand Mr L believed 
these would form part of the credit/purchase power he had available on his Klarna card. 
However, the terms and conditions of Mr Ls Klarna card make it clear under section 12 that 
the payment methods available are Pay Later in 30 or Pay in 3. Therefore 12-month 
agreements wouldnt be something that is offered under the Klarna card, and these would be 
separate products that come with their own eligibility criteria. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr L wasnt using his Klarna card for the initial applications he 
made. Mr L has advised that he tried to use the card for subsequent applications and 
selected Pay Later in 30. He has explained that he received an authorisation code, but that 
Klarna still declined the payment to V.
 
Section 6 of the Klarna card terms and conditions do advise that the purchase power is an 
estimate and not a promise from Klarna that you will be able to spend up to the purchase 
power. Given this, Klarna hasnt acted outside of its terms by not allowing Mr L to use the 
purchase power he had available. 
In this case Klarna has advised that Mr Ls fixed sum credit applications were declined as 
they did not satisfy its lending criteria. Klarna has said it considered the information provided 
during the applications and Mr Ls credit history when reaching its decision.
 
Klarna is entitled to set its lending criteria, as this is a commercial process. My role isnt to 
comment on commercial decisions or to tell Klarna how to set its lending criteria. Where 
Klarna decide not to lend, the Standards of Lending Practice explain that it should provide 
the primary reason why.
Here Klarna have done that. It explained that Mr Ls applications were declined because 
they didnt meet Klarnas internal lending criteria. I would not expect Klarna to share details 
of what its lending criteria is, as thats sensitive information that could be used by consumers 
to manipulate their credit applications.
Klarna has also explained that it looked at Mr Ls credit history. I fully appreciate Mr L has 
advised he has an excellent credit history. However, its not only adverse information like 
missed payments that businesses may consider in a credit file. It could be things such as the 
amount of credit or the number of applications made. It is worth noting that Mr L wouldve 
potentially still had access to the full purchase power he had available on the Klarna card, 
had a 12-month fixed sum credit application been approved. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Klarna acted unreasonably when declining Mr Ls 
applications. 
Lastly, Ive considered the advice to Mr L from Klarnas agent to clear balance the 
outstanding payments on his Klarna card. He did this and was still declined after, despite 
being told it may increase the chances of approval. Im satisfied this advice was given to try 
and give Mr L the best chance of being successful in his application. Klarna made no 
guarantees it would result in a positive application and only explained it may increase his 
chances. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Klarna Bank AB (publ).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman