DRN-3873075
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was badly advised by OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent 
Reliance (KR).
What happened
Mr C had a fixed rate ISA with KR. It matured on 15 April 2022 and the balance was then 
£88,013.04. Mr C reinvested it into another one-year fixed rate ISA at a rate of 1.34% pa, 
maturing on 15 April 2023. The reinvestment letter said there was a 14-day cooling off 
period, from the date of the confirmation letter (19 April 2022) during which he could 
withdraw the funds without penalty. After that, the penalty was the loss of 90 days interest 
on the amount withdrawn.
Mr C wanted to put £40,000 of the money into a stocks and shares ISA with another ISA 
provider (which I will call A). Mr C anticipated that this would happen within the 14-day 
cooling off period and so he could withdraw the money from the new fixed rate ISA without 
penalty.
The ISA transfer form was received by KR on 29 April 2022. It was processed on 3 May 
2022. But  there were errors on As ISA transfer form and so it wasnt processed. The 
transfer of £40,000 was made on 17 May 2022, with an interest penalty of £132.16.
Mr C complained. He said that when he spoke to KR about the maturing fixed rate deposit, 
he wasnt told he could put £40,000 into an easy access ISA (instant access), with the 
balance into the new fixed rate ISA. If he had been advised to do that, he wouldve done so 
 which wouldve meant he didnt pay the interest penalty. He also said that KR had been 
difficult to get through to speak to.
KR didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that on the call on 13 April 2022, the call 
handler took instructions from Mr C to transfer the maturity funds into a new fixed rate ISA. 
Mr C was informed about the penalties that would occur  and that this wouldnt apply if the 
withdrawal was made within the 14-day cooling off period. Mr C was asked if he wanted to 
put funds into an easy access ISA, but he declined as he was confident that 14 days was 
sufficient time  but he said he would inform KR if there were going to be any problems.
KR said they received the ISA transfer form from A on 29 April 2022. It was reviewed on 3 
May 2022, but Mr Cs DOB and NI number were missing. KR tried to call Mr C on 5 May 
2022 and a voicemail was left. On 6 May 2022, KR spoke to Mr C and told him about the 
interest penalty that would apply. KR said it was unfortunate that the transfer form contained 
errors, but they would have expected A to check it.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said KR acted reasonably. He said KR 
arent authorised to give advice on savings  - and so wouldnt have been able to recommend 
the easy access option as being best for Mr C. He listened to the call on 13 April 2022 and 
felt that KR hadnt done anything wrong when speaking to Mr C.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint - and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that KR shouldve told him to place the £40,000 he was 
intending to transfer to a new ISA provider into an instant access account, rather than 
allowing him to place it in a one year fixed ISA - and withdraw that amount within the 14 day 
cooling off period.
Its important to say here that KR cant give advice to customers about savings (in the same 
way as for example, a regulated financial adviser can). So  KR are required to set out the 
options to a customer  and it is then for customers to make their own decisions. So  Ive 
looked at Mr Cs complaint in the light of this.
I listened to the call on 13 April 2022. This took place two days before the fixed rate deposit 
with KR was maturing.  Mr C explained he was going to put £40,000 into a stocks and 
shares ISA with another provider. Mr C said he was aware that if he did nothing, the whole 
amount (£88,013) would go into a new one-year fixed deposit.  KRs call handler explained 
the new rate for a one-year fixed deposit was 1.34%. He said there was a 14-day cooling off 
period that would apply. Mr C said, that shouldnt give me any problems, its sufficient time 
for (A) to process the new ISA. So, Mr C said let that run (into a new fixed rate ISA). 
KRs call handler said Mr C could put this amount into an easy access ISA. Mr C 
declined to do that and said he was happy to put the full amount into a fixed rate deposit. He 
said again let it go into the one year oneif I cant get it done in the 14 days, I will give you 
a call and see what we can doand maybe put some into an easy access ISA then.
So  my assessment of the call was that KR set out the options of the one-year fixed rate 
ISA, its rate, the penalty for early withdrawal, and the availability of the easy access ISA as 
an option. I accept that the call handler didnt go as far as saying to Mr C that he might put 
£40,000 into it  but given the nature of KRs role, Im satisfied that they set out the options 
for Mr C. And it was then for Mr C to make a decision. Mr C also indicated that he 
understood that an easy access ISA was an option for him. I also heard Mr C say confidently 
that he wanted a one-year fixed ISA  he was certain that was what he wanted and was 
confident that the 14-day issue wouldnt arise. So - I think KR acted reasonably here.
I then looked at KRs reinvestment options form sent to Mr C ahead of the maturing deposit. 
This included boxes for an easy access ISA with the options of full maturity value  or 
partial amount. So that confirmed that part of the maturing deposit could be out into an easy 
access ISA. I accept that Mr C doesnt agree that the form is clear enough  but I think it is.
I then considered what happened when KR received the ISA transfer form from A. It was 
received on Friday 29 April 2022. The 14-day cooling off period ended on Tuesday 3 May 
2022. After the weekend, Monday 2 May 2022 was a bank holiday and therefore KR 
processed the transfer form on Tuesday 3 May 2022  and found that Mr Cs DOB and NI 
number were missing. So, by that time  it was clearly too late to contact Mr C, ask him to go 
back to A to amend the form and then get it back to KR in time. I dont think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect KR to have processed the form on the day it arrived  and even if they 
had, I think its unlikely that things couldve been corrected in time.
I listened to the call to Mr C from KR on 5 May 2022. Unfortunately, Mr C wasnt available 
and a voicemail was left for him to call back. So  KR were at that stage trying to resolve 
matters, but clearly by then it was too late.Mr C had said it was difficult to get through to KR. KR have explained that may have been 
the case  but Im not certain that anything wouldve been different as a result. I also noted 
that KR did try to contact Mr C on 30 April 2022 and 5 May 2022  returning his calls. But Mr 
C wasnt available and KR left a message. But by that time  it was too late to do anything 
as the transfer form only arrived from A on 29 April 2022.
Im dont have any details of what happened as between Mr C and the new provider (A). I 
dont know what communications there were with Mr C  or whether A asked Mr C to get in 
touch about the omissions on the transfer form, or when. But Mr C might wish to consider 
whether he wishes to make a complaint to A if he feels he wasnt treated fairly by them in 
connection with what happened.
But in summary, I think KR acted reasonably and I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman