DRN-3961875
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following a 
claim for damage to his boiler. 
What happened
Aviva are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent, company H. As Aviva have accepted they are accountable for the actions of company 
H, in my decision, any reference to company H includes the actions of Aviva.
 
Mr S held a home insurance policy with Aviva which included home emergency cover. Mr S 
is the landlord of the property that this insurance covered. Mr S letting agent dealt with 
company H on behalf of Mr S for parts of his claim. For ease of reference I have referred to 
Mr S throughout this final decision. 
The boiler coverage section of Mr S insurance policy explained sludge/scale/rust within the 
system or damage caused by other chemical composition of water would not be covered.
On 29 April 2022 Mr S contacted company H as he was having problems with his boiler 
overheating. On 1 May company H arranged for an engineer to attend to Mr S property to 
find out the cause of the problem. It was recorded Boiler overheating due to airlock. Cleared 
airlock by pump. Reset overheat stat. Tested and left working. 
Mr S thought the problem had been resolved but he called again on 3 May to report the 
same issue. An engineer attended on the same day but Mr S continued to experience 
problems. On 6 May after continuing to experience issues, it was agreed that company H 
would ask their engineer to Recommend completing water sample to confirm a power flush 
is required. It was agreed with the engineer that this would be done on 10 May. 
On 17 May company H were contacted as no engineer had attended as agreed on 10 May. 
On the same day Mr S was told awaiting water sample results and advised if power flush 
needed, this is not covered, however we can offer quote for this via [company H] Repairs. 
On 18 May an engineer did attend to Mr S property and a water sample was taken by the 
engineer and sent to company F. 
On 20 May Mr S expressed his dissatisfaction with the time taken to resolve the issues with 
his boiler. Company H continued to chase company F for an update on the result of the 
water sample.
On 26 May the water sample results were sent to company H from company F. The results 
recorded that there was a risk of failure from debris. The case notes recorded I have 
spoken to [agent] at the letting agency to advise the heating element will be suspended 
Also advised if they decide to carry out the system cleanse independently they can forward 
the evidence as per the invoice through to customer enquiries to allow us to re-instate the 
heating element back on the policy. [Agent] was o.k. with this. 
On 31 May the power flush procedure was completed by company Hs approved repairer at 
a cost of £675 to Mr S. 
On 15 June Mr S advised that the power flush hadnt worked. Mr S was unhappy with the 
quality of work completed by company Hs repair team. A second power flush was carried 
out on 28 June, again at a cost of £675 to Mr S, but Mr S continued to experience issues 
with his boiler not providing heating or hot water. Mr S complained to company H about their 
handling of his claim, and the delay in getting the problem with his boiler sorted. 
Company H sent their engineers to further investigate. On 16 July company Hs notes 
recorded the engineer has established that there is a blockage which needs to be cut out 
and will cost £922.02 
Company H and Mr S continued to exchange emails about Mr S disappointment with 
company Hs handling of his claim. Mr S was unhappy with the cost of two power flushes 
hed already paid for, and being asked to pay an additional £922.02 for further repairs. 
Company H told Mr S that they would refund the cost of the second power flush plus interest 
on this amount, and pay Mr S £150 compensation in recognition of their poor handling of his 
claim. Mr S wasnt happy with company Hs offer.  
On 17 August the blockage causing the issues with Mr S boiler was repaired at a cost of 
£922.02 to Mr S. It was recorded Found anti-gravity valve on return. Removed and re-joined 
pipework. Also replaced pump head as running week [weak].All working ok now. Boiler not 
overheating or pumping over. Complete. 
Mr S remained unhappy with the handling of his claim and compensation offered, and so 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that the offer to refund the cost of one of the power flush procedures 
was fair. The investigator didnt think company H should pay for the cost of the other repairs 
as these are not covered by the policy. The investigator found Mr S should be awarded £250 
compensation in total for company Hs poor handling of the claim, and the impact of this on 
Mr S (so an additional £100 to the amount already offered). 
Mr S rejected these findings saying £250 is not a fair compensation, with [company H] the 
amount of distress, sleeplessness, time wastage I gone through in 3 months of dealing with 
this claim is unbearable. I would like [company H] to pay £675 for power flush and £2500 for 
unnecessary distress and sleeplessness caused secondary to their poor service [company 
H] has been fined by the FCA for poor service, but still they haven't learned their lessons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.Mr S feels strongly that company H have not dealt with his claim properly. I thank Mr S for 
taking the time to explain everything thats happened, and the impact on him, in dealing with 
company H in getting his boiler fixed. I understand it has been a difficult time for Mr S. 
Reimbursement of repair costs
It is an insurers duty to ensure it progresses a claim promptly and fairly, and in line with the 
policy terms. Mr S feels strongly that company H should pay for the repair work required to 
fix his boiler. But I cant ask company H to pay for any costs unless I can see evidence of the 
claim terms being met. 
The boiler and heating system section of Mr S insurance policy explained sludge/scale/rust 
within the system or damage caused by other chemical composition of water would not be 
covered.
Ive considered the issues with Mr S boiler and can see that it was agreed with Mr S on 17 
May 2022 that if power flush needed, this is not covered, however we can offer quote for 
this via [company H] Repairs. Im satisfied that in line with the policy terms, Mr S was 
reasonably made aware that the power flush procedure would be something that the policy 
doesnt cover, and so Mr S would have to pay for this himself. 
The first power flush procedure didnt resolve the issues with Mr S boiler. So a second 
power flush procedure was completed. Although this work isnt covered by Mr S policy, Ive 
seen that company H have offered to cover the cost of the second power flush, and interest 
on this amount. Company H have explained that they failed to carry out a power flush 
correctly (referring to the first power flush), and the evidence supports this. I think its 
reasonable for company H to reimburse Mr S this cost. So Ill be directing company H to pay 
this cost plus interest as part of the overall compensation for Mr S complaint.
Mr S has also complained about the cost of the pipework that was replaced to fix his boiler at 
a cost of £922.02 to be reimbursed to him. Mr S has explained how his floorboards were not 
properly fixed when the repair work to the pipes was carried out, and they had to be repaired 
separately at a cost of £300 to him. Mr S has asked for company H to also pay for these 
costs.
Having reviewed the policy terms Im satisfied that these repairs were required because of 
the build-up of debris as recorded in the water sample report completed by company F. As 
this blockage isnt covered by the policy, I dont think its reasonable to ask company H to 
cover the cost of the pipework repairs, and floorboards. So I wont be directing that company 
H take any further action in respect of these costs. 
Compensation for impact on Mr S
Mr S would like company H to pay £2500 for unnecessary distress and sleeplessness 
caused secondary to their poor service and lies. The investigator recommended £250 
compensation for what went wrong with company Hs handling of the claim, and the impact 
on Mr S. 
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
S but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Its not disputed that company H made errors when dealing with Mr S claim. Mr S first 
notified company H about issues with getting access to heating and hot water on 29 April 
2022. The final repair work which resulted in Mr S boiler being fully functional wasnt 
completed until 17 August. It took over three and a half months for company H to provide a resolution that fully resolved the issues with Mr S boiler. I think the level of service provided 
here was poor. 
Ive seen that Mr S made several phone calls to company H, asking for an update on his 
claim, and advising that an engineer hadnt turned up when they said they would. Because 
of these delays, Mr S was left continually calling company H, and waiting for a resolution for 
his boiler. I think these calls wouldve left Mr S feeling frustrated and inconvenienced. 
Despite Mr S making it clear that the issue with no access to hot water and heating needed 
to be resolved quickly, there were long delays between action on the claim. And things often 
didnt progress until Mr S chased for an update. Company H were awaiting instruction from 
third parties for some of these delays, but Mr S was still left without any resolution to the 
problems with his boiler. 
Mr S says [company H] has been fined by the FCA for poor service, but still they haven't 
learned their lessons. It is evident that Mr S has suffered upset and inconvenience because 
of whats happened with his claim. But any award we make isnt to punish company H. Its to 
recognise the individual impact on Mr S because of what went wrong. 
Company H couldve provided a better level of service. Mr S shouldve been kept better 
informed about the progress of his claim, and company H shouldve had better oversight 
over the claim and the actions of any third parties instructed. Because this didnt happen, Mr 
S was left chasing company H for updates, and the issues with his boiler went on for longer 
than they shouldve.   
When thinking about the impact on Mr S because of the delay in dealing with his claim, and 
difficulty in getting the problems with his boiler resolved in good time, I think the £250 
recommended by the investigator is fair and in line with what wed recommend in the 
circumstances. 
This amount recognises that company H couldve done better. But also that the impact of 
their actions didnt leave Mr S personally without access to hot water or heating. This 
amount is in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr S by the delays on his claim, and 
the repeated calls that couldve been avoided if the claim had been better handled. 
Putting things right
Aviva is directed to do the following:
- Aviva must refund the cost of one of the power flush procedures costing £675. Aviva 
must pay 8% per annum simple interest from the date this payment was made by Mr 
S to the date the claim is settled*.
- pay £250
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must follow my 
directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman