DRN-2564063
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for some replacement windows and about the way that it has dealt with 
his compliant.
What happened
Mr F used his Virgin Money credit card in September 2019 to pay £11,662 for some 
replacement windows. The internal handle, with a plate behind it, on the windows wasnt 
what hed expected so he complained to the supplier. It said that the handles and plates 
couldnt be altered as they were manufactured as part of the flush casement window that 
hed ordered. 
Mr F claimed a refund from Virgin Money under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It said that the supplier had delivered and installed the windows that Mr F had ordered and 
that there hadnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But it 
accepted that it had given Mr F some incorrect information so it paid him £100 
compensation.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. She said that the supplier should 
have explained to Mr F that to have the frames that hed ordered a plate would be needed to 
widen the frame for the handle to fit. She said that Mr F had received £750 from the supplier 
because of other issues with the windows and she thought that a refund of £250 from Virgin 
Money would be an appropriate remedy for the suppliers omission.
Our investigator also said that Mr F had raised his section 75 claim in September 2019 but 
she couldnt see that the claim was progressed until June 2020 and it was then declined in 
July 2020. Virgin Money offered to pay another £100 compensation to Mr F because of its 
delay in dealing with his complaint  which our investigator thought was fair in the 
circumstances.
Virgin Money didnt agree with the investigators recommendations but offered to pay the 
additional £350 to Mr F in an attempt to bring this matter to a close. Mr F has asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that removing the windows wouldnt 
be cost-effective or desired but the windows arent as expected or as conveyed in the 
suppliers brochure or verbally in crucial areas that were important to him and as indicated 
from the outset. He says that he doesnt see the windows being changed for ten to twenty 
years so a reasonable outcome would be a refund of £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold 
Mr Fs complaint about Virgin Money, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the windows and that Virgin Moneys 
response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining 
the outcome of Mr Fs claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Its clear from the evidence that Mr F chose the supplier to supply and install his windows 
because of work it had done for his neighbour  but the windows that hed chosen were 
different to the neighbours windows. He asked for samples but they werent available and 
the supplier provided him with its brochure which included a picture of the windows that hed 
chosen. But I dont consider that that picture clearly showed the plate behind the handles. 
Mr F referred in an e-mail that he sent to the supplier to the unease that he was experiencing 
and he was given some reassurance by the supplier. Given the requests that hed made for 
samples and pictures and his unease I consider that it would be reasonable to expect the 
supplier to have done more to provide him with detailed information about the windows that 
he was ordering and to have carefully explained to him the differences between those 
windows and his neighbours windows. I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr F 
wouldnt have ordered the windows if hed been provided with that information.
But Im not persuaded that the suppliers failure to provide him with that information is 
enough to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Mr F received the 
windows that hed ordered and the supplier paid him £750 because of some issues with the 
windows. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that there was a breach 
of contract by the supplier or that Mr F was induced into ordering the windows by a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier.
Our investigator recommended that Virgin Money should refund £250 to Mr F for the issues 
with the windows. Virgin Money has agreed to pay him £250 and I find that thats a fair and 
reasonable response to Mr Fs complaint about the windows. I sympathise with him for the 
issues that he has with the windows but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Virgin Money to pay him more than £250 because of those issues and I 
dont consider that the £5,000 that Mr F has claimed would be fair or reasonable 
compensation in these circumstances.
I consider that the standard of service that Virgin Money has provided to Mr F when dealing 
with his complaint has fallen below a reasonably acceptable standard. Virgin Money has 
already paid £100 to Mr F because it gave him some incorrect information and has offered to 
pay him another £100. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances and 
Im not persuaded that a higher amount of compensation is justified for the customer service 
issues about which Mr F has complained.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Virgin Money to pay £250 to Mr F to 
compensate him for the issues that he has with the windows. I find that it would also be fair 
and reasonable for it to pay to Mr F the £100 that it has offered to him for the customer 
service issues. That totals £350 and is in addition to the £100 that it has already paid to Mr F. Virgin Money has agreed to pay £350 to Mr F and I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay him more compensation than that or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I order Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, to pay him £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman