DRN-1417048
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) did not repair his 
faulty windscreen wipers following his car accident. 
Mr G is unhappy that he had to repeatedly chase Advantage to get updates on the repairs 
and specifically to obtain a list of repairs that were due to be undertaken. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in a car accident and repairs were arranged through the insurance 
company. On collecting his car Mr G found that the window wipers had not been repaired. 
He thought this should have been done. And Mr G was not happy with the standard of the 
repairs that had been carried out on other parts of the car. Mr G was told that the window 
wipers were not damaged in the accident and as such would not be covered under his 
insurance policy. 
In response to Mr Gs concerns Advantage appointed an independent inspector who found 
that some rectification work was required on the car (scuttle trim replacement and some 
work to the bonnet stay) but not to the windscreen wipers. Both the independent inspector 
and Peugeot found that the accident did not cause the issue with the windscreen wipers and 
as such the garage did not repair them. 
Mr G complained to Advantage and asked for a copy of the repairs that had been carried out 
on the car. Despite numerous chasers from Mr G there was a delay in providing him with a 
list of repairs. 
Advantage looked into Mr Gs concerns and upheld his complaint in respect of the service 
that he had received. Advantage accepted that Mr G had to chase them throughout and that 
they could have been more proactive in communicating with him. They did not uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in respect of the windscreen wipers since their view was that the wipers had not 
been damaged in the accident. Advantage apologised to Mr G and paid him £300.00 to 
reflect the poor service that he had received. Mr G was unhappy with the response from 
Advantage and referred his complaint to this service. 
The investigator looked into the complaint and found that Advantage had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. The investigator felt that the apology and compensation was enough to 
compensate Mr G for the delays and poor service. The investigator did not uphold the 
complaint regarding the windscreen wipers. Since Mr G did not agree with our investigator 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs motor insurance policy provides cover for damage related to an accident his car was 
involved in. Advantage have accepted Mr Gs claim, and this isnt disputed. So, Advantage 
would need to deal with repairs to Mr Gs car, in relation to the specific incident that 
occurred. Any damage which wasnt related to this incident wouldnt be something 
Advantage would need to deal under the claim.  Mr G says his windscreen wipers were 
damaged by the impact of the accident he has claimed for. And Advantage says it doesnt 
think this was the case. 
So, Ive needed to look at the evidence before me and decide whats most likely based on a 
balance of probabilities. I have seen a report from the approved repairers that confirms that 
damage to the wipers was not related to the accident. The report states the damage found 
to the wiper motor is not related to accident damage.  In the same report the garage 
confirms that if Peugeot find that the issue with the wipers is due to the accident then the 
garage will repair them. I have also been provided with a copy of a report from Peugeot 
stating that the wiper motor failed but that this does not relate to the impact 
Mr G reported his concerns regarding the wipers to Advantage and they took appropriate 
steps to investigate. And Im persuaded that the above reports do show its most likely the 
windscreen wipers werent damaged by the accident. Both experts, who are separate 
entities, looked at the car and confirmed this. And Mr G hasnt provided any firm evidence to 
show that the above expert assessments were incorrect. 
Given the evidence shows the windscreen wipers were unlikely damaged in the accident, 
and therefore the policy would not provide cover for their repair, I am not upholding the 
windscreen wipers aspect of the complaint. 
When considering the issues raised by Mr G I carefully considered the evidence provided to 
me. It is clear that Mr G spent considerable time chasing Advantage in order to get his car 
repaired to an acceptable standard. It is also clear that there have been delays in providing 
Mr G with the list of repairs, which Advantage should have provided to Mr G in a timely 
manner, when he originally asked for this. The service provided to Mr G has fallen short of 
what I would have expected. Advantage have apologised for the delays and any 
inconvenience caused to Mr G as a result of those delays.
Mr G received £300 in compensation to reflect the shortcomings in the service he received 
from Advantage. Given my comments above I believe that the offer is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, as I think it recognises the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr G as a 
result of needing to chase Admiral for progress. And therefore I am not able to ask them to 
offer anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already paid Mr G fair 
compensation of £300. I do not require them to take any further steps to resolve this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman