DRN-1446897
 
The complaint
Mr G and Miss Hs complaint is that they were mis-sold a five-year fixed rate mortgage by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. To settle the complaint they want Barclays to allow them to port 
(transfer) the mortgage product onto another property they own, or allow them to redeem the 
mortgage without any early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, what happened is this. In March 2017 Mr G and Miss H were buying a property which 
I will call RS. They already owned two other properties, including one I will call LR. At the 
time, LR needed extensive work and was not habitable.
In March 2017, after discussing their mortgage requirements with Barclays, Mr G and Miss H 
took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage so they could buy RS. The mortgage contained 
standard provisions. An ERC would apply if they redeemed the mortgage within the fixed-
rate period. The mortgage interest rate was also portable  that is, the five-year fixed rate 
product could be transferred onto a mortgage on another property, subject to Barclays 
lending criteria.
The relevant part of the mortgage offer says:
If you buy another property to move to, you can transfer (port) the mortgage interest 
rate to a new mortgage for the purchased property in relation to an amount no greater 
than your outstanding mortgage balance provided that you meet the lending criteria in force 
at the time that you ask to transfer the mortgage rate to your new property. (my emphasis)
Mr G, whos dealt with the complaint throughout, says that the adviser was told at the initial 
interview in March 2017 that he and Miss H intended to renovate LR and, once the 
renovations were complete, move into that property, rent out RS and port the mortgage from 
RS onto LR.But in 2019 when they asked Barclays about porting the mortgage, the bank explained that 
its policy didnt allow porting onto a property that was already owned by the borrowers. 
Mr G and Miss H complained to Barclays. They said the adviser at the time was fully aware 
of their intention to port the mortgage onto LR. If theyd been told they couldnt do this, theyd 
have taken out a two-year fixed rate instead.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank acknowledged that Mr G and Miss H had 
said they only intended to stay at RS for just over a year. But Barclays said that it hadnt 
been made aware that Mr G and Miss H wanted to port the mortgage onto LR, which they 
already owned. 
Mr G and Miss H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and an investigator 
looked at the complaint. After looking into everything Mr G and Barclays had said, he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. The investigator explained that, although he accepted 
Mr G and Miss H had told Barclays they didnt intend to stay at RS long-term, there wasnt 
any evidence that theyd told Barclays that their intention was to port the mortgage onto LR.
Mr G and Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr G is insistent that the 
adviser knew, at the time he recommended the five-year fixed rate mortgage that the 
intention was to port this onto a property Mr G and Miss H already owned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities and based on the evidence that is available.
Ive reviewed everything Mr G and Barclays have said. Unfortunately, the recording of the 
discussion that took place in March 2017  when Mr G says Barclays was told of their 
intention to port the mortgage onto LR  is no longer available. So Ive looked at the other 
evidence and taken note of everything the parties have said.
Having done so, on balance, Im unable to uphold the complaint. After looking at the 
available evidence, I accept Barclays was told that Mr G and Miss H intended to port the 
mortgage. Indeed, its recorded in the application form that Mr G and Miss H didnt intend to 
stay in RS for the whole of the fixed rate period. 
But Im not persuaded that Barclays knew that the property onto which the product would be 
ported was already owned by Mr G and Miss H. 
I say this because Barclays policy is that it will not allow a mortgage to be ported onto a 
property which is already owned by the borrowers. In the circumstances, I think that it is 
unlikely that the adviser would have recommended the five-year product if hed known that 
Mr G and Miss H already owned the property onto which they wanted to port the product. 
Refusing to allow a product to be ported onto a property the borrowers already own isnt just 
a quirk of Barclays lending criteria  its fairly standard across mainstream mortgage 
lenders. Im not persuaded that the adviser didnt know (or had forgotten about) this aspect 
of Barclays lending criteria. So in all the circumstances, the balance of the evidence 
persuades me that the recommendation was made on the basis that the adviser didnt know 
Mr G and Miss H already owned the property onto which they wanted to port this mortgage.Im also satisfied that it was made clear in the mortgage offer that the mortgage can only be 
ported if Mr G and Miss H buy another property to move into.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded  on the basis of the available evidence  that 
the mortgage was mis-sold. I also find that there is no basis for me to order that Barclays 
should allow the mortgage to be ported or to waive the ERC. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken note of Mr Gs recollections of what he remembers 
from the time. I can see from his emails that he discussed porting the mortgage from RS 
onto LR with his independent mortgage broker. But there is insufficient evidence to satisfy 
me that this this was also discussed with Barclays. Because of this, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
I understand Barclays has now granted Permission to Let (PTL) on RS, which means that 
there can be no change to the mortgage product for the duration of the letting, including 
porting the interest rate. So even if I had upheld this complaint (and to be clear, for the 
reasons set out above, I am not upholding it), renting the property out under the PTL would 
have precluded any porting of the mortgage product in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that will I will not be engaging in any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint nor any discussion with the parties about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman