DRN-2027995
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Santander continued to apply charges to her account after she told 
them she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Ms T had a current account with Santander and an arranged overdraft facility of £300. In 
2017, Ms T told Santander that she was having financial difficulty as she was in ill health, 
and her income had reduced as a result of not being able to work. Santander agreed to 
refund some of the charges.
Ms Ts financial difficulties continued, and she went over her arranged overdraft limit and into 
an unarranged amount. And Santander had added their unarranged overdraft fees to her 
account. Santander regularly sent notifications to Ms T to show her account balance and the 
charges that would be applied. And in July 2018, Ms T again told them about her financial 
difficulties, and again Santander waived some of their overdraft charges. After another 
notification was sent by Santander, in December 2018, Ms T wrote to them explaining her 
difficulties and a repayment plan was agreed.
But Ms T didnt make the agreed repayment and she said her situation worsened, as 
Santander kept adding charges for her going over her overdraft limit. Ms T said it was the 
charges that caused her to keep exceeding her limit and putting her into a continuous cycle 
of debt. And Ms T said Santander passed her account to debt collectors even though shed 
managed to get back within her arranged overdraft limit. She complained to Santander.
Santander said theyd treated Ms T positively and sensitively as she was in financial 
difficulties. And had refunded £862 in fees and charges since 2017. They said her statement 
was generated giving her 22 days notice prior to any charges being applied. And as this was 
an automatic process, they wouldnt be able to adjust for funds paid in shortly after the 
charges were applied. And theyd regularly spoken to her and had agreed a repayment plan, 
which shed broken.
Ms T wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Ms T had shown shed been experiencing financial difficulty since 
2017. And from July 2018 said Santander should have done more to help Ms T with her 
financial difficulties. She said Santander should refund Ms T any charges and fess applied to 
her account since July 2018. She also said to pay her a further £100 for the trouble and 
upset shed experienced, and to remove the default that had been added to Ms Ts credit 
file.
Santander agreed to some aspects of the investigators findings. And refunded all the 
charges form July 2018. But said the removal of the default would have a detrimental effect 
on Ms T s credit file. And that they had an obligation to accurately report her circumstances. 
Theyve asked for an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint.
It isnt our role to say that any interest, fees or charges attached to an overdraft facility are 
disproportionate. But I can look to see whether or not it was fair for Santander to apply 
charges based on Ms Ts straightened circumstances. And whether Santander have been 
fair and reasonable in their actions with Ms T.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook ( CONC7.3) says the lender should treat any consumer in 
financial difficulty with forbearance and due consideration. What is fair will vary for each 
consumer, but Id expect Santander to look to understand the situation Ms T was in and to 
take reasonable steps to help her. And Im pleased to see that Santander has taken steps to 
refund or reverse the overdraft charges applied to Ms Ts account. And they have agreed to 
pay her £100 for the trouble and upset that shes experienced. So, what I need to determine 
is how Ms Ts account should be recorded on her credit file.
Santander said theyd refunded some charges from 2017 when they were applied. So its 
clear I think that Ms T has been in financial difficulty for some time. Ive looked at her 
statements, and I can see shed regularly been exceeding her overdraft limit. And this would 
have been visible to Santander as well.  I can see Santander tried several times and by 
various methods to contact Ms T to discuss her account. Although on the phone calls I can 
see it was Santanders policy not to leave any voicemail message, so I dont think Ms T 
would have always known when Santander were trying to contact her.
Ms T did speak to Santander in October 2017 and explained she was suffering a long-term 
illness and that her income had reduced, so she now only had income from her pension. She 
made a payment of £20 followed by another payment of £25.38, and she was told about 
maintaining her accounts as any unarranged overdraft would incur charges. And I can see 
Santander waived some of the charges that had been applied to her account as they 
recognised the financial difficulty Ms T was in.
But Ms Ts financial difficulties continued, and she was consistently using her arranged 
overdraft on which daily arranged overdraft charges were added. And from March 2019, she 
consistently went over her overdraft limit and accrued the higher unarranged overdraft 
charges.
In July 2018 Ms T spoke again with Santander and from Santanders notes I can see Ms Ts 
situation had drastically worsened. She still only had her pension and said shed been 
living off savings and these were now used up. And I think it was clear she was struggling to 
keep up with her household commitments. Santander again agreed to refund some of the 
overdraft charges that had been applied. But I think it is here that Santander could have 
done more to help Ms T. As after refunding the charges Ms T still had an outstanding 
overdraft balance of £123.90, so she was still in debt and would continue to accrue arranged 
overdraft fees. So, I agree with our investigator its at this point Santander should have frozen 
any further overdraft charges being applied to Ms Ts account and looked at how they could 
help her clear her debt. As by December 2018, Ms Ts overdraft balance had increased to 
£350.65, and charges of £267 had accrued in the intervening period.
In December 2018, Ms T asked Santander to freeze her charges as she could see the 
charges were increasing her overall debt. And she suggested a weekly repayment plan. When Santander spoke to Ms T she said her health had worsened and she had been in and 
out of hospital. She confirmed she was still struggling with her household bills and now 
needed the help of her son financially. Santander did advise Ms T that there were several 
ways they could help, and an agreement for Ms T to pay £20 a month was made. Im 
pleased to see that Santander also agreed to freeze any further charges during the 
repayment period. But I cant see that Santander looked to see whether the agreed 
repayment was sustainable for Ms T.
I can understand that Santander considered the repayment only in the context of clearing the 
amount that was over the arranged overdraft limit, and this payment, if Ms T had been able 
to maintain it would have put her back within her agreed limit in a short time. But I think its 
clear that Ms T was in a very difficult financial situation, and Santander should have looked 
at her overall debt rather than confining it to the smaller amount. Id have expected 
Santander to have, at this time to have carried out an income and expenditure assessment 
to consider the best way to help Ms T in clearing her overdraft balance and escaping her 
cycle of debt.
And I think its clear the agreed amount was unsustainable as after only making one 
payment in January 2019, Ms T couldnt meet the ongoing commitment. And as Santander 
saw this as Ms T breaking her agreement, they again started to apply their overdraft 
charges. And subsequently defaulted Ms Ts account and passed it over to a debt collector.
Ms T says shed made repayments and her overdraft was within the agreed limit when 
Santander passed her account to debt collectors. An overdraft is a debt; but it doesnt 
operate in the same way as for example a loan as it doesnt require regular fixed or minimum 
payments. An overdraft is payable on demand; that is, Santander would have been entitled 
to ask Mrs  T to repay it in full simply by giving notice to her. And Santander did ask Ms T 
about repaying the overdraft on several occasions and had agreed a repayment plan which 
shed broken. They also had an obligation to record Ms T financial history accurately with the 
credit reference agency. 
But if Santander had acted as outlined above in July 2018, I dont think Ms T would have 
been in the position where she agreed to making payments she couldnt keep up, and so 
she wouldnt have missed making those payments. And her account might not have been 
defaulted. I think this is supported as Ms T went on to clear her overdraft balance by 
December 2019. So, I dont think its fair for her credit file to reflect missed payments and a 
default as I think Santander should have done more to have prevented this happening. 
Putting things right
Santander has already put some things right by refunding the charges from July 2018 and 
paying Ms T £100 for trouble and upset. But I think they also need to remove the adverse 
information about her account including the default and missed payments.My final decision
Im upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman