DRN-3261512
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car acquired with finance from Honda Finance Europe Plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract purchase 
agreement with Honda.
During the course of the agreement, Mr J returned the car to the supplying dealer for repairs. 
The repairs were completed under the manufacturers warranty at no cost to Mr J.
The repairs were successful and resolved the issues with the car. The agreement has since 
ended and the car is no longer in Mr Js possession. However, Mr J is unhappy that neither 
the supplying dealer nor the manufacturer made him aware that he could raise a complaint 
about the quality of the car with Honda.
Mr J complained to Honda in September 2021, seeking a refund of interest paid under the 
agreement. In response, Honda said that in order to consider a complaint about quality, it 
would need to see evidence that there was a fault with the car which was present at the 
point of supply. It noted that Mr Js car had been repaired and that there were no longer any 
faults. In relation to Mr Js complaint that the supplying dealer hadnt made him aware of his 
right to complaint about the quality of the car, Honda said that a complaint about the 
information provided by the dealer would need to be raised with the dealer directly.
Mr J was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think that Honda had handled 
the complaint unfairly, and that if the complaint about quality had been raised with Honda at 
the time when the faults were experienced, the way to resolve things would have been for 
repairs to be caried out, which was what had happened.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed had several repairs caried out on the car and that Honda had 
ben aware of the issues at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are satisfactory if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes things like the general 
state and condition of the car, fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety and durability. 
Honda supplied Mr J with a brand-new car. So, Id expect it to be of a very high standard and 
free from defects for a reasonable period of time.
Theres no dispute that Mr J returned the car to the supplying dealer for repairs. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think its likely that the car had a fault. Ive thought about whether the fault 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality. The occurrence of a fault doesnt necessarily mean 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. In this case, the car was repaired 
under the manufacturers warranty and theres no evidence to suggest that the repairs 
werent successful. So even if the fault had made the car of unsatisfactory quality, the 
business exercised its right to repair and brought the car back to satisfactory quality, and Mr 
J was able to continue to use the car.
I understand that Mr J is unhappy that he wasnt advised by the supplying dealer that he 
could raise a complaint with Honda about the quality of the car. but even if Mr J had been 
advised of this, and even if he had complained to Honda at the time, I dont think that the 
outcome here would be any different. Under the relevant legislation, the right to repair the 
car would still have applied, and I think this is what Honda would have done.
I appreciate that it mustve been frustrating for Mr J to experience issues with the car. And I 
understand that he must have suffered inconvenience when the car was returned for repair. 
However, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Honda has done anything wrong here, and 
I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Honda to refund the interest paid under the 
agreement, because the car was successfully repaired under the relevant legislation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman