DRN-3411348
The complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt give him a warning that his life 
assurance policy would lapse without value if he stopped paying premiums.
What happened
Mr A took out a life assurance policy in 2000. The policy transferred to Aviva. In 2013, Mr A 
stopped paying the premiums into his policy. He continued to receive policy statements. In 
2021, his policy lapsed without value.
Mr A says that he called Aviva each year and was told his policy was still on track. He said 
he understood that to mean that it would still support the £100,000 sum assured. He said he 
was relying on this policy being in place for his dependents. In 2020, Mr A realised his wifes 
policy had lapsed and called Aviva. He was told he couldnt make any changes to his policy 
as the policy became paid up in 2014. Mr A complained.
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. She explained that the terms of 
the policy said that it would lapse as soon as it no longer had a value if premiums were 
stopped, and she said the statements Aviva sent showed clearly that the value was 
continually decreasing. As Mr A hadnt paid any premiums since 2013, the policy had lapsed 
in line with the terms. The Investigator also explained the evidence showed it was likely Mr A 
was sent a letter explaining the policy had become paid up. And she said the contact records 
didnt show Mr As calls he was referring to.
Mr A disagreed. He said that he felt hed been misled in the phone calls with Aviva. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome but Id like to explain why I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong.
The policy Mr A took was a reviewable whole of life policy. It was set up to provide £100,000 
of cover for a monthly premium of £20. The illustration Mr A was sent at the time said that 
the contribution would be payable throughout life  so I dont think he was led to believe 
this was a policy that would continue for life without paying the premiums. Ive looked at the 
information Mr A was provided about the policy. I can see that theres a section titled Non-
payment of contributions and it says:
If the cash value reduces to nil during this period, the policy will terminate immediately 
without payment.
So, I think Mr A was made aware that if he stopped paying his premiums, his policy could 
end. And I can see this is what happened.
Mr A says he was told during phone calls that his policy was on track. Im not sure what 
was discussed in the calls he had with Aviva, so we asked it for its contact notes. Aside from 
the call in 2020, the last call it had logged was from 2015. Due to the length of time that has 
passed, Aviva doesnt have the contents of that call and I dont think this is unreasonable. 
And Ive not seen evidence of any subsequent calls to enable me to say its likely Mr A was 
told he shouldnt pay into his policy. So, I cant conclude that Mr A was misled by Aviva 
during phone calls.
Whilst I understand that it must be upsetting to Mr A that he no longer has a policy in place, I 
do think he was given the right information about what would happen if he stopped paying 
premiums. I can see he was given annual statements which showed the value of the plan 
was reducing each year, and Im satisfied that the plan only lapsed when that value became 
zero. I can also see from Avivas archive notes that a letter was sent out to Mr A when the 
policy became paid up. So, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong in this case. I think 
Mr A was given enough information to know the consequences of not paying his policy 
premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman