DRN-1913038
The complaint
Miss S complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd mis-sold her a finance agreement. 
What happened
In the summer of 2018 Miss Ss daughter wished to acquire a car. She was struggling to 
obtain finance due to her age and credit history. Miss S says her daughter spoke to a dealer 
who said she would need a guarantor. Miss S refused to act as guarantor and says the 
dealer told them that she could put the finance agreement in her name for 12 months and 
then it could be transferred to her daughter.
Miss S says the dealer put the car in her daughters name and helped her source insurance. 
In July 2019 Miss S and her daughter went back to the dealer to arrange for the finance to 
be transferred but were told this could not be done. Miss S cancelled her direct debit and 
asked that one be set up in her daughters name but Blue said this could not be done. Her 
daughter continued to pay the monthly payments manually. 
In the course of this Miss S told Blue the car had never been in her possession and it put a 
default on her credit file and told her it would issue a demand for the agreement to be paid in 
full and cancel the agreement. Miss S asked that Blue honour what the salesman had told 
her and transfer the agreement to her daughters name. If that wasnt possible, she wanted 
the car to be taken back and the agreement cancelled.
Blue refused and Miss S brought the matter to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. He set out the relevant consumer law 
and said that he found Miss Ss testimony credible. He thought it odd that when Miss S 
approached Blue for help it placed a default marker on her credit file. It did this even though 
full payments were being made.
He thought the agreement had been mis-sold and asked Blue to unwind it. It didnt agree 
and said Miss S had signed the invoice and the agreement which had said she wasnt 
entitled to transfer the rights under that agreement. It said Miss S had accepted she hadnt 
read the agreement and it couldnt say what had been said at a meeting in 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is complaint where if one relies solely on the paperwork it makes it clear that Miss S 
signed up to the agreement and she is obliged to follow its terms and conditions. However, it 
doesnt take much thought, having read what she has said happened, to see that in this case 
only considering the paperwork gives a misleading picture.
I have no doubt that Miss Ss daughter wanted to buy a car and the deal was done so she 
could acquire one. I am also happy to accept that the salesman arranged for the car to be 
registered in the daughters name and also helped her find an insurance policy. That means 
the dealer who was arranging the finance and acting as agent for Blue acted to help Miss S 
break the terms of the agreement from the outset.
I dont think it is too far a step to take to say that it is more likely than not he also told her that 
she could transfer the agreement after 12 months. She had refused to act as guarantor and I 
presume the sale was likely to fall through. The 12-month option seems like it was a 
reasonable compromise, or it would have been had it been genuine. As such I am satisfied 
that Miss S was misled into signing the agreement.  
I note the dealer disagrees, but didnt offer any testimony from the salesman and only stated 
that the documents were as signed. I would add that I cannot say that the dealer deliberately 
misled Miss S and it may have been a simple mistake, but regardless how it arose I consider 
there to have been a mis-sale of the agreement.
Putting things right
When Miss S brought the situation to the attention Blue took a robust approach to the matter 
and doesnt seem to have explored finding a reasonable solution which means that the only 
option now left is to unwind the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Unwind the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Miss S to pay.
Record the credit search done by Blue as settled or remove it altogether.
Remove any default markers it placed on Miss Ss credit file
Collect the vehicle at no cost to Miss S
Retain the repayments received on the agreement.
Pay £250.00 compensation to Miss S for the distress and inconvenience this 
situation has caused her as she has been financially affected by the default marker 
being put on her credit file as she was declined a mortgage due to it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman