DRN-2374846
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service she got from UK Insurance Limited (trading as Green
Flag) under her roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mrs R called out Green Flag when a warning light came on on her car dashboard as she
was driving on a motorway. She says the car hadnt broken down but she wasnt sure she
could get home safely if she carried on driving.
Green Flags patrol towed Mrs Rs car to the nearest service station. Mrs Rs husband and
daughter were in the car while it was being towed. They say various other fault lights started
to flicker on the dashboard while the car was being towed.
Once at the services, I understand the patrolman tried to clear the faults using a diagnostic
machine. When that didnt work, he disconnected the cars battery. This also didnt clear the
faults. After this, the car couldnt be driven.
The following are Mrs Rs main concerns about how Green Flag handled things:
Mrs R was a long way from home when she called out Green Flag. Her policy gave
her roadside assistance within 10 miles of her home. At the time of the incident,
Mrs R wasnt aware of what her level of cover was, and this caused her some
confusion. She says its disappointing Green Flag hadnt sent her an email explaining
the cover level when she took it out.
Mrs R says the patrolman acted illegally in towing her car from the motorway with her
husband and daughter in it.
Mrs R says, by towing her car in the way it did, Green Flag caused new fault lights to
come on in her car, and additional damage was done to it.
Mrs R says Green Flags patrolman shouldnt have disconnected her car battery and
was incompetent. She says because of his actions the car couldnt be driven and so
she had to stay overnight at the services until the car was taken to a garage the next
day. She says this caused a lot of inconvenience to her and her family.
Mrs R says by disconnecting the battery, Green Flags patrolman deleted all the fault
data on her car. She says the repairing garage had to recreate the data to diagnose
the problem, which took extra time and therefore cost her more. Mrs R wants Green
Flag to reimburse her for these costs and for the stress it caused her, for which she
says she also had to take time off work.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Rs complaint explained that she couldnt comment on
whether Mrs Rs car had been towed illegally and that this was something a court would
have to decide. But she didnt think that, this issue aside, Green Flag had acted unfairly or
unreasonably in how it treated Mrs R.
Mrs R disagreed and so her complaint came to me to decide.
There was one part of Mrs Rs complaint that our investigator hadnt given her view on  to 
do with the level of Mrs Rs roadside assistance cover. It wasnt a central part of Mrs Rs 
complaint. But nevertheless, for the sake of completeness, it was an issue I wanted to give 
my findings on. And thats why I issued a provisional decision on 22 October 2020. I didnt 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Neither Mrs R nor Green Flag has given me any comments on my provisional decision, 
which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint. In my provisional decision, I said as follows:
At the outset, I should say my role in Mrs Rs complaint is to look at whether Green Flag, in
its handling of Mrs Rs incident, acted reasonably and in line with what Id expect it to do
under her policy, given the restrictions of being at the roadside. And to do this, I have to
assess all the evidence I have, including call notes, breakdown reports and expert
engineering evidence.
Looking at each of Mrs Rs main concerns in turn:
The level of Mrs Rs roadside assistance cover
This is the area of concern our investigator hasnt given a view on. I dont think its the main
part of Mrs Rs complaint. But it is something shes raised a few times. So I think I need to
give my findings on it.
I can see Mrs Rs breakdown cover schedule describes the level of cover she has. And it
refers her to the sections of her policy booklet that apply. These sections relate to roadside
assistance within a 10 mile radius of her home and to home start.
I think these documents make it reasonably clear what level of cover Mrs R had. I wouldnt
have expected Green Flag to send Mrs R a separate email confirming this.
Was it illegal for Green Flag to tow Mrs Rs passengers as it did?
We at the Financial Ombudsman Service have rules about what complaints we can and
cant look into. Our rules dont allow us to give a view on this part of Mrs Rs complaint.
I can see Green Flag has explained why it thinks its actions were legal. If Mrs R is unhappy
about Green Flags answer on this, shed need to get her own legal advice about what she
can do to take it forward.
Did Green Flags method of towing Mrs Rs car cause further damage?
Mrs R says Green Flag towed her car incorrectly, which caused more warning lights to come
on. Green Flag says the car was front lifted and strapped down while it was towed. Its
technical team says the car could be towed in the way it was. And it also says the cars
handbook confirms this.From this, I dont think Green Flag did anything wrong in towing Mrs Rs car as it did. And
Ive seen no evidence the towing method caused more damage to Mrs Rs car.
Did Green Flag cause more damage to Mrs Rs car by disconnecting the battery?
Mrs R says, if Green Flags patrolman had been properly trained, he wouldve known not to
disconnect the car battery. Mrs R says the repairing garage told her we could have easily
and safely made it home with the single engine fault light. Mrs R says by disconnecting the
battery, Green Flags patrolman caused further damage to her car. And she says it took the
repairing garage longer to diagnose the problem because disconnecting the battery had
wiped all the cars fault data.
Mrs R also says with the start-stop technology her car had, when the battery is disconnected
and then re-connected, the system/ECU is free from faults but you cant switch on the
engine/ECU for a few hours. She says the Green Flag patrolman clearly didnt know this, so
it is clearly his fault.
Apart from Mrs Rs statement about the repairing garage saying she couldve made it home
safely with the warning light on, Ive seen no expert evidence  from the garage itself or any
other engineer  confirming this.
Green Flags technicians say disconnecting a battery to reset electrical faults is common
practice in roadside breakdowns. Its engineering department also says disconnecting a
battery is a basic procedure. It says it isnt possible from a technical perspective to damage
an ECU by disconnecting a battery. It says if this was the case then every time a battery was
flat or replaced, the ECU would require replacement. It says Mrs R hasnt given any
evidence to support the view that engines on cars with stop-start technology shouldnt be
disconnected.
Having looked at all the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont think Green Flags patrolman acted
unreasonably in disconnecting the battery to see if this cleared the fault. I say this especially
bearing in mind, firstly, he was giving assistance at the roadside (even though at a service
station), where his options would be more restricted than at a garage. And, secondly, Mrs R
had a long way to drive (with at least some of that drive on the motorway) until she got
home.
I havent seen any evidence that, in disconnecting the battery, Green Flags patrolman
caused further damage to her car. I have seen evidence from the repairing garage that it
took longer to diagnose the problem because the fault data had been wiped from the car.
But since I dont think, from what Ive seen so far, that Green Flags patrolman acted
unreasonably in doing this, I cant say Green Flag should pay for the extra time it took the
garage to recreate the fault and diagnose it.
It follows from this that, since from the evidence Ive seen so far, I dont think Green Flag did
anything substantially wrong in how it handled Mrs Rs incident, as things stand I dont think
it would be fair to direct it to pay any of Mrs Rs costs in getting her car repaired or to
compensate her for the stress and inconvenience the incident caused.
But if Mrs R can give us mechanical evidence on the impact of Green Flags work on her car,
then I will look at this point again. And, if she does, I would expect Green Flag to reconsider
her complaint in light of what this says.As Ive said, neither Mrs R nor Green Flag has responded to my provisional decision. And 
having looked at everything again, I cant see any reason to change the conclusions I set out 
in it. So these now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman