DRN-2497316
The complaint
Mr S complains UK Credit Limited didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
when approving him for two guarantor loans.
What happened
Mr S was approved for two guarantor loans with UK Credit:
Date of loan Capital 
AmountTerm Monthly repayments
(approx.)Total repayable value
(approx.)
May 2017 £3,000 18 months £237 £4,261
March 2019 £6,000 24 months £366 £8,794
 
In August 2020 Mr S complained to UK Credit. It reviewed Mr Ss complaint and upheld it in 
part. UK Credit said it couldnt be satisfied it had completed sufficient checks before 
approving loan one. It offered to put Mr S back in the position he would have been in had it 
not provided him with the loan. In relation to loan two, UK Credit said it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself the loan was affordable to Mr S. 
Therefore, it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint in relation to loan two. 
Our investigator reviewed the sale of loan two and didnt uphold it. He said UK Credit hadnt 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the loan. He went on to 
consider what further checks would have shown UK Credit; and he concluded the loan was 
sustainably affordable to Mr S. 
UK Credit didnt reply to our investigators outcome. Mr S responded and said he didnt 
agree. In summary, he said his financial position was worse at the point of loan two; and 
therefore, as UK Credit had upheld his first loan it should have upheld his second loan. He 
also said hed been in financial difficulties for around 20 years and this had led to his mental 
health suffering. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is no longer a dispute about the sale of loan one my decision only considers the 
unresolved dispute about loan two. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. Bearing in mind
the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions I need to
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ss complaint. These are:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself he 
was in a position to afford to repay loan two sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Mr S would have been able to do so?
2.Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to answer these questions in turn.
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself he was 
in a position to afford to afford to repay loan two sustainably?
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time UK Credit lent required it to carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mr Ss ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term, without causing him financial difficulties.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances. 
It isnt sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtains from these checks to go on and make a fair lending decision.
Mr S has said hes been in financial difficulties for around 20 years. He says he was 
increasingly becoming reliant on credit and was borrowing money from a number of high 
cost credit lenders. Mr S said this had a detrimental impact on his mental health over the 
years. And that he was in a worse financial position at the point of loan two than at loan one; 
and as UK Credit has upheld loan one, he says it follows loan two wasnt affordable either. 
UK Credit has said it completed a number of checks before approving Mr S for loan two. It 
says it completed an affordability assessment over the telephone and discussed details of 
Mr Ss income, credit commitments and his individual circumstances. It obtained one 
months payslip to verify Mr Ss income; and it says it obtained details of Mr Ss essential 
expenses. It also obtained a copy of Mr Ss credit file to conduct a review of his outstanding 
debt; to identify Mr Ss credit commitments and to understand how his credit was currently  
and had historically  been managed. UK Credit says Mr S was looking to consolidate 
existing debts and it went through which debts would be consolidated as part of this loan. It 
says Mr S was looking to consolidate six credit accounts totalling around £5,200. When Mr S 
complained to UK Credit it requested his bank statements covering three months before loan 
two was approved. It says it reviewed these as part of its complaint response and maintains 
its position that it made a fair decision when approving loan two for Mr S. 
Ive carefully considered UK Credits argument; but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks before approving loan two. I say this because this loan 
was for twice as much as loan one, and the repayable term was also increasing. While loan 
two was new lending and not a top-up of loan one, UK Credit did need to take into account 
the information it already had available from its previous relationship with Mr S. And it would 
have seen Mr Ss use of credit had increased over the near two years between loan one and 
loan two; suggesting a higher reliance on credit. 
Within six months of this application Mr S had been approved for a loan over a term of 36 
months; and still had an outstanding balance of around £4,850 to pay. He had five credit 
card/store card accounts with a total active balance of around £3,100; all of which were 
relatively close to their limits. Mr S also had a mail order account with an active balance of 
around £400; and theres evidence of an increase in the use of payday lending shortly after loan one was approved. Mr S also appears to have defaulted on an overdraft on a bank 
account in 2017; and a loan in 2018. However, both appear to have been settled by the time 
he applied for loan two. 
During the application stage Mr S made UK Credit aware hed also recently taken out a 
home credit loan, which wasnt showing on his credit file. He said it had an outstanding 
balance of about £1,700, although he was looking to consolidate it as part of this loan.
Including the home credit loan Mr S had nearly £11,000 outstanding across his active credit 
accounts. So, this consolidation would still leave Mr S with around £5,000 of debt to service 
in addition to this loan. 
I consider UK Credit needed to obtain a full understanding of Mr Ss financial circumstances 
before approving him for this loan; to ensure it was sustainably affordable and wasnt 
increasing his overall indebtedness in a harmful way. I consider reasonable and 
proportionate checks should have led UK Credit to verify Mr Ss actual expenditure and 
credit commitments to ensure this loan was sustainably affordable to him.
Would further checks have shown Mr S would have been able to meet any repayments 
sustainably?
As I dont consider UK Credit completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone on 
to consider what further checks would have shown.
As part of its review of Mr Ss complaint, UK Credit obtained bank statements which covered 
a period of around three months leading up to loan two being approved. From its review of 
Mr Ss statements, UK Credit has said loan two was affordable; and it maintains that it made 
a fair lending decision when it approved the loan.
Ive also reviewed these statements to understand the information UK Credit would have had 
available to it, had it obtained these as part of it completing reasonable and proportionate 
checks. Ive also listened to the telephone call Mr S had with UK Credit as part of the 
application process. 
During the call UK Credit went through an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S, 
where he declared his income to be around £2,800 per month and his rent to be around 
£450 per month. UK Credit took details of Mr Ss essential expenditure which included items 
such as utilities, food and travel; and it included a provision for entertainment. UK Credit 
calculated Mr Ss essential expenditure to be around £800 a month based on his 
declarations. 
It also noted the existing credit commitments Mr S had; including a home credit loan Mr S 
had taken within a month of this application which wasnt showing on the credit file search it 
completed. When reviewing the credit accounts Mr S was looking to consolidate, UK Credit 
calculated Mr Ss payments to his credit commitments would be around £550 a month once 
this loan was approved. It therefore calculated Mr S would have a disposable income of 
around £1,000 per month after taking into account the payments to this loan.
From reviewing the bank statements UK Credit obtained I can see Mr Ss monthly income 
averaged around £2,700 and his rent payments were £450 per month. I can see payments 
to some utility providers and travel, as well as Mr Ss existing credit commitments totalling 
around £500. But Mr Ss expenditure is difficult to calculate on a strictly pounds and pence 
basis  as there are a number of cash withdrawals across the months. I consider UK Credit 
needed to have obtained a thorough understanding of Mr Ss financial position, including 
looking to understand the nature of the significant cash withdrawals from Mr Ss bank account. Mr S also has a number of transfers to and from another account over the months 
leading up to this loan.
As part of my review I asked Mr S to provide his statements in relation to the account the 
money was being transferred to and from. Mr S provided these statements covering a period 
of three-months leading up to loan two. Mr S also made us aware that he was gambling at 
this time and the cash withdrawals from the bank account statements UK Credit obtained 
were used to gamble. 
There are transactions to online gambling sites shown on the additional statements Mr S has 
provided, totalling around £300 across the three months. However, I wouldnt necessarily 
consider this amount excessive in Mr Ss individual circumstances as when averaged out 
across the three months its around £100 a month. 
From the statements UK Credit reviewed, I can see Mr S withdrew around £2,700 by cash 
withdrawals across January and February 2019. But I cant safely say UK Credit would have 
reasonably identified what Mr S was using the cash withdrawals for. Whilst I have no reason 
to doubt Mr Ss testimony; Im not satisfied on balance that UK Credit couldve reasonably 
been aware of what the cash withdrawals were being used for.  
Ive also seen on the additional statements Mr S has provided this service that he had taken 
further borrowing in the form of payday and instalment loans from other high cost lenders in 
the three months leading up to this loan. However, these loans dont appear on the credit 
check UK Credit obtained, and Mr S doesnt appear to have declared he had any other open 
lending in addition to the home credit loan when asked during the pre-approval call with UK 
Credit. So, while I can see this additional lending, again I dont think it unreasonable that UK 
Credit wouldnt have identified this information when completing reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I say this because Mr S would likely have provided UK Credit with his 
main bank account statements, as he did when it investigated his complaint, and I think had 
UK Credit received plausible explanations for the cash withdrawals, it would have been 
reasonable for it to have continued with its decision to lend. 
Having reviewed Mr Ss bank statements it does appear that this loan would be affordable to 
Mr S. I say this because Mr Ss income and essential expenditure is evidenced within his 
statements. And it does appear to closely match the disposable income UK Credit identified 
before approving the loan. 
Ive also taken into account the reason for this loan  Mr S declared to UK Credit that he was 
looking to obtain loan two in order to consolidate exiting debts. So, UK Credit wasnt 
providing further credit in additional to what he currently had outstanding. It went through all 
of Mr Ss existing credit and identified the debts that Mr S was looking to refinance. And it 
was reasonable for it to exclude these debts from its affordability assessment.  
Although there were signs that Mr S had recently increased his borrowing and had historic 
evidence of problems managing his money; his recent management appears to have 
improved. And given the nature of this lending being to consolidate existing debts, I dont 
consider it unreasonable for UK Credit to have progressed the loan application based on 
what it would likely have identified with Mr Ss management of his finances. Ultimately, the 
debt consolidation looked to put Mr S in a better financial position.
I therefore consider it likely UK Credit would reasonably have come to the same decision to 
lend to Mr S had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving loan 
two. And therefore, Im satisfied UK Credit made a fair lending decision when approving loan 
two. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests UK Credit acted unfairly in any other way in 
relation to Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about 
UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman