DRN-3038509
The complaint
Mr F complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didnt make his property 
water tight during wet weather and declined his claim for storm damage under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F made a claim to RSA under the home emergency part of his cover when his roof 
started leaking due to the continuous heavy rain, which was affecting the electrics. 
RSA couldnt fix the leak, so appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. An electrician was 
arranged to cut-off the electrics as they were thought to be dangerous. A further specialist 
was deployed to investigate the damage and the building works at Mr Fs property. 
After reviewing the report from its surveyor and specialist, RSA declined Mr Fs claim. It said 
Mr F had breached the conditions of his policy. RSA thought that a loft conversion had been 
done to a poor standard and it had caused the leak. It said, there is no evidence of storm 
damage and the water ingress is a result of poor workmanship and a poorly fitted roof 
covering.
Mr F was unhappy as he said his roof was only six years old and he said RSAs contractor 
had tried to fix the leak by stealing tiles from his neighbour. Mr F said the contractor placed 
the tiles in the wrong place. He said due to the delays in RSA dealing with the claim the leak 
spread and caused damage to the electric work.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence of a storm, so 
RSA was fair to say the damage wasnt weather related. She also thought the expert reports 
supported RSAs decision to decline the claim due to poor workmanship, so she thought its 
decision was fair. Mr F disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to this complaint, Mr Fs dissatisfaction with the leak not being fixed 
and the declined claim for storm damage, which is an insured peril in the policy.
I have looked at the claim for storm damage first. When our service looks at a complaint 
related to a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1. Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
RSA disagreed that storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident. So, I 
have checked weather reports from around the time of the incident. Neither the recorded 
wind speeds or rainfall reported at that time are consistent with what our service would deem 
storm conditions.
As storm conditions werent present, its not necessary to consider the remaining questions. I 
think RSA has been fair in declining the claim. I have also considered if Mr F has put forward 
any other evidence for a damage claim under his policy. As he hasnt, I think RSA has been 
reasonable in not considering the damage under any other parts of the policy.
I have considered what Mr F said about his leak not been fixed under the home emergency 
aspect of his policy. RSA declined the claim as it said Mr F didnt meet the condition of his 
policy which stated, Your family must take all reasonable steps to avoid incurring liability 
and prevent loss or damage to everything which is covered by this, insurance and to keep all 
the property insured in good condition and in good repair. I have checked the policy, and 
this is a general exclusion which applies to all aspects Mr Fs cover, including the home 
emergency aspect. So, if RSA has shown good reason to apply the exclusion, I am likely to 
say it has been fair in declining the claim.
RSA based its decision to apply the exclusion based on reports from its experts, its surveyor 
and the additional specialist deployed. I think RSA has applied a reasonable approach in 
using experts to assess the condition of the property.
I have reviewed the expert reports provided by RSAs contractors to see if they are fair. Both 
reports are consistent in their assessment. The specialist report stated:
our biggest concern however is the standard of building works which have been
undertaken at the property and appear to be ongoing and unfinished.
the roofing felt has been poorly finished and appears to have
simply been tucked under the edge of the surrounding tiles, leaving a likely source
of water ingress. There is also a gap between the felt and the ridge tiles which we
consider to be the most likely source of the water ingress and internal damage
currently being claimed.
I have looked at the photographs taken which accompany the expert reports and Im 
persuaded that the commentaries provided are a fair assessment of the condition of the 
property. I think RSA has been reasonable in saying its likely the poor workmanship was the 
main factor in the cause of the leak. I think RSA has been fair in declining the emergency 
service claim as it has been able to demonstrate the property had not been maintained to a 
reasonable standard. The expert reports support this decision, and I havent seen any 
contradictory evidence.
I have also considered what Mr F said about RSAs contractor fixing the wrong part of the 
roof with stolen tiles. RSAs account differs from Mr Fs. RSAs contractor said he didnt go 
on the roof as scaffolding was required. As I dont have any evidence to validate either 
account, I wont be deciding on this point.Mr F also said the delays in the claim process meant his property incurred additional 
damage. I have looked at the timescales of the claim and I dont think RSA has taken an 
unreasonable amount of time to assess the damage. As RSA werent responsible for the 
damage and the claim was fairly declined, I dont think its fair to say RSAs actions led to 
additional damage to Mr Fs property. 
In summary, RSA declined the claim as it said the roof was not in reasonable condition due 
to poor workmanship. As it has provided expert reports to support its decision, I think it has 
taken a reasonable approach. It has explained why it has applied the general exclusion 
clause and I think this is reasonable. So, I think it has been fair in declining the claim. 
Therefore, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman