DRN-1891489
The complaint
Mr D complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) failed to compensate 
him properly for the costs he incurred while waiting to reject a faulty car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr D acquired a new car costing £72,918 funded by a finance agreement. He 
also bought Gap insurance and Smart insurance along with tyre insurance at a cost of 
£1,222. 
Shortly after acquiring the car Mr D encountered a number of problems. The sunroof 
wouldnt close fully and the car had to be returned to the dealer for various attempts at 
repair. Mr D has told us that he had trips booked to Europe that had to be rescheduled due 
the car being repaired.
In October 2019 Mr D was on a holiday in Europe and the passenger window failed. He 
contacted BMW and had to return to the UK to have it repaired. I gather BMWFS reimbursed 
him for the additional travel costs due to having to curtail his trip. 
BMWFS agreed to rejection, but Mr D asked for two of his monthly payments to be returned 
to reflect the problems he had encountered and the additional costs he had incurred. 
BMWFS refused and so he brought his complaint to this service. It was considered by one of 
our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She noted he had been without the car on a number of occasions for periods of up to 10 
days. However, the dealer had provided courtesy cars of a reasonable standard. She 
recognised that he had suffered the inconvenience of having to return the car to the dealer 
and he had to alter his holiday plans, including having to return early. He also had to drive in 
the rain with the window stuck open.
She said she thought Mr D had suffered disappointment of his new luxury car suffering from 
faults shortly after delivery and overall she believed he was entitled to compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience of £500. She also thought Mr D deserved some recompense for 
the three insurance policies he had taken out. BMWFS agreed to the £500 compensation but 
didnt think it should pay any other costs.
After making further enquiries our investigator concluded that BMWFS should pay the 
cancellation fees of £35 for each of the policies. Furthermore, as Mr D had made a claim on 
his tyre repair policy and as a result wasnt entitled to a pro rata refund of his premiums so 
she thought BMWFS should cover the remaining premiums and the cancellation fee.
Mr D agreed but pointed out various other costs he had incurred and explained the issues he 
had faced with the faulty car. BMWFS didnt agree and said that Mr D could have taken out 
finance on his replacement car to match the existing policies. It suggested the £500 should 
go towards covering his costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.It has been agreed by all that the car wasnt fit for purpose and that rejection was the right 
option. As such I have no need to consider that aspect save to say that I also agree with that 
conclusion.
The issue for me to consider is the level of compensation and redress due to Mr D. BMWFS 
has accepted that he is entitled to compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered. I believe that is fair. It is a little higher than I would normally recommend but given 
the disruption to Mr Ds holiday and the fact his belongings got wet due to the open window 
and the number of times he had to take the car back I am happy to endorse the proposed 
compensation. 
Turning to the insurance policies the guiding principle is that the consumer should be put 
back in the position they would have been had the fault not arisen. In this case Mr D has had 
to pay £35 to end each of the three policies and this is an expense that arose out of the car 
being rejected. He had made a claim on the tyre policy and so he couldnt reclaim his 
outstanding premiums. If the car had been fit for purpose Mr D would have maintained this 
policy but as it wasnt, he has lost out. I consider he is entitled to recompense.
I dont think he should have been obliged when taking out new finance on a replacement car 
to have done so in a manner which fitted these policies. He was entitled to take on finance 
which suited his wider needs.
Finally, I dont consider he is entitled to any further compensation or redress for any other 
costs he incurred. I think Mr D appreciates that and I believe my proposals give a fair result.
Putting things right
Overall, I think it only fair that Mr D is compensated and recompensed in line with the 
recommendation put forward by our investigator
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
Pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience the overall matter has caused him 
as Ive explained in my previous findings.
Refund Mr D all three insurance policies cancellation fees of £35 each adding 8% 
simple interest from when these were paid to date of settlement.
Refund the remaining tyre insurance premium adding 8% simple interest from date of 
payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman