DRN-3920277
The complaint
Mr T wanted to close his savings account and complains Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt send 
him a cheque for the balance when he asked them to.
What happened
On 7 September 2022 Mr T called to close one of his savings accounts and he asked for the 
money to be sent to him in a cheque. The agent he spoke to said she wouldnt do that, 
instead shed transfer the money to the current account Mr T held with them. Mr T wanted to 
raise a complaint at the time, but says he was told hed have to go to the branch to do so.
He called back a second time 17 September 2022 and was told hed been given the wrong 
information. On this second call they closed down Mr Ts account and sent him a cheque for 
the balance as he asked. But, at this point, they still didnt deal with his complaint. So, he 
asked us to look into things.
We raised a complaint to Barclays on Mr Ts behalf. In response, they wrote to Mr T saying 
they accepted theyd provided him with poor service. They said sorry for this, had given 
feedback to the first agent, and credited his remaining account with £25 as an apology.
Mr T didnt accept this, saying the compensation was nowhere near enough, so he asked us 
to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so, but overall felt Barclays had done enough to put matters 
right.
Mr T didnt agree, saying he thought compensation should still be more. So, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute over what happened  Mr T and Barclays agree he was given poor 
service by them in the first call on 7 September 2022. I understand why Barclays would 
initially suggest the balance of someones account be transferred to another account they 
hold  both for convenience, security reasons, no delay and so on. But, Barclays should 
have closed down Mr Ts account and sent him the balance by cheque as he asked for  
which theyve accepted.
So, the question becomes whether the apology, giving feedback to the agent, and paying 
him £25, is enough to put matters right. And, for reasons Ill go on to explain, I think it is.
When considering someones complaint its important I consider whether that person has 
suffered financial loss as a result of the business actions or inaction. Here, thatd happen 
because potentially Mr T should have had his cheque ten days earlier than he actually 
received it.
But, Barclays told us the cheque hadnt been cashed. This is information our Investigator 
gave to Mr T, and I cant see hes disputed that. So, there isnt any financial loss for him to 
put right in this case  because Mr T hasnt suffered any by being delayed in cashing his 
cheque.
Outside of financial loss, Barclays have said sorry  which is appropriate given they did 
make mistakes in that first call. Ive also seen theyve given feedback to the agent in 
question  again I think important because this appears to be quite a basic mistake. So, I 
think those two proactive actions following Mr Ts complaint are fair and appropriate.
The last question then is whether the £25 compensation is appropriate  or whether it should 
be more as Mr T says. When considering compensation, we look at the impact on the 
individual. Ive no doubt being told he couldnt have a cheque was frustrating and 
disappointing. But the impact of this was limited by being given the correct information ten 
days later. Mistakes can and do happen, and its possible Id have said an apology was 
enough for the error here. So, given that, I can only conclude that Barclays paying Mr T £25 
is fair in all the circumstances. Because of that, I wont be requiring Barclays to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman