DRN-3749059
The complaint
Mr G complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). His complaint relates to 
Aviva only offering to pay for 50% of his claim for the cost of replacing conservatory blinds. 
Reference to Aviva includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
This decision only covers the issue of replacement blinds to Mr Gs conservatory following 
damage to the conservatory in bad weather and the consequent need to replace the roof 
canopy. This decision doesnt cover other aspects of Mr Gs complaint, which were resolved 
by our investigator.
What happened
In 2021 Mr Gs property was damaged in bad weather at the time of Storm Arwen. Damage 
was caused to the roof of his property and to the glass in his conservatory. Mr G lodged a 
claim for the damage and Aviva appointed a contractor (E) to deal with the damage to the 
conservatory glass. E initially replaced the broken glass with temporary covering of plastic. 
They then said it wasnt possible to replace the glass and a new canopy to the conservatory 
roof was needed.
As part of the replacement canopy, E advised that the area beneath the canopy needed to 
be clear, which also meant removing the blinds previously fitted there. Having contacted a 
local company, Mr G was told it wouldnt be possible to refit the blinds to the new canopy. E 
said they wouldnt replace the blinds. But after raising the issue with Aviva, Mr G was told 
they would cover the cost. However, the following week Aviva contacted Mr G to say they 
wouldnt cover the cost as the need to replace the blinds wasnt a direct result of them being 
damaged in the bad weather. Unhappy at their refusing to cover the cost of replacement 
blinds, Mr G complained to Aviva.
Aviva discussed Mr Gs concerns with him. In their final response, they said they were willing 
to offer a 50% contribution towards any costs incurred for replacement of the blinds. While 
they recognised his disappointment, Aviva said they werent in a position to agree to Mr Gs 
request that they cover the costs of replacement blinds in full (should they be required).
Mr G complained to this service. He said the blinds were fine and undamaged, the only 
reason they needed to be replaced was due to the replacement roof canopy. As the 
replacement canopy was Avivas decision, he said they should pay for the full cost of 
replacement blinds.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Aviva should cover the cost of new 
blinds, to put Mr G back in the position he was before the incident. While Aviva might 
consider this meant Mr G would have benefited from betterment, she thought this was fair in 
the circumstances.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said that as the repairs [to the conservatory roof] hadnt been 
completed, it wasnt known whether the blinds could be reused or not. As such, the 
settlement offered to Mr G therefore only covered the replacement roof. Should the blinds be 
in a position to be reused, they wouldnt make any settlement offer in that respect (as Mr G 
would have received a settlement for items undamaged in the incident). They restated their 
position that if the blinds couldnt be refitted, they would offer a 50% contribution towards the 
cost of replacement blinds.
In my findings, I concluded that if there was uncertainty about whether the blinds could be 
refitted, then it would be reasonable to wait until the new roof canopy was completed and 
then determine whether the blinds could be refitted. 
However, if the blinds couldnt be refitted to the new canopy roof, then they would have to be 
replaced. As such, that would be a loss that is a direct result of the incident and it would be 
reasonable for Aviva to cover the cost of replacement blinds as part of the claim.
Because I reached a different conclusion to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision 
to allow both parties to consider matter further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr G.
The key issue is that of the blinds to Mr Gs conservatory. Mr G says Aviva should pay the 
full cost of replacement blinds, as they were fine and undamaged. And the only reason they 
need replacement is Avivas decision to replace the roof canopy. For their part, Aviva say, 
firstly, as the repairs havent been completed, it isnt known whether the blinds can be 
refitted. As such, the settlement offered to Mr G doesnt include any element for replacement 
blinds. Secondly, if the blinds can be refitted, they wouldnt make a settlement offer as Mr G 
would have received settlement for items undamaged in the incident. They say, thirdly, if the 
blinds cant be refitted, they will offer a 50% towards the cost of replacement blinds.
Looking at these points, the first is whether the blinds can be refitted. Mr G says theyre fine 
and undamaged. While he says a local company have told him they cant be refitted to the 
new roof, Aviva say this wont be known until the roof replacement is completed. From the 
photographs of the blinds Ive seen, they appear to have been fitted to match exactly the 
profile of the roof, which may suggest that any replacement roof that doesnt have the same 
profile might preclude the blinds being refitted to it. However, if theres uncertainty about 
whether the blinds can be refitted, then its reasonable to wait until the new roof canopy has 
been completed. At that point, it can be determined one way or the other whether the blinds 
can be refitted. If they can, then as it seems theyre undamaged (Mr C says theyre fine), it 
would be reasonable for that to be carried out. As Mr G would then be back in the position 
he was before the incident, I agree with Aviva they shouldnt include any element for the 
blinds in settlement of the claim, in that scenario.
However, if the blinds cant be refitted to the new canopy roof, then Ive considered what 
would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances. Aviva say they would make a 50% 
contribution towards the cost of replacement blinds, as they would be making a settlement 
for items undamaged in the incident. Mr G says they should pay the full cost of replacement, 
as while the blinds are undamaged, they would only need to be replaced because of the new 
canopy roof, which was Avivas decision.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I agree with Mr G. While the blinds 
werent themselves directly damaged in the incident, if they cant be refitted then they would have to be replaced. As such, that would be a loss that is a direct result of the incident (the 
damage caused to the conservatory roof and it needing to be replaced). So, I think its 
reasonable for Aviva to cover the cost of replacement blinds as part of the claim and its 
settlement, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. While that would mean he 
has new blinds (as opposed to old ones) I think any aspect of betterment would be 
incidental.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint. If the 
blinds in Mr Gs conservatory cannot be refitted to the replacement roof canopy, I intend to 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
cover the cost of replacement blinds as part of the claim and its settlement, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr G replied to make one point. He said hed been told by a local blinds firm that unless the 
new canopy profile was exactly the same as the original canopy, it was likely some 
fixings/attachments might break during removal and reinstallation, complicating the process.
Aviva responded to say theyd received the provisional decision and would await closure of 
the case to proceed as advised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva have acted fairly towards Mr G.
On Mr Gs point, Id expect any issues that arise, either if the blinds can be refitted or if they 
have to be replaced, to be dealt with as part of the claim settlement. So, if new 
fixings/attachments were needed to refit the blinds, Id expect the cost of these to be 
included in the claim. If new blinds are required, then Id expect the cost to include the 
necessary fixings/attachments. So, I dont think this affects my provisional conclusion.
On Avivas response, I take this to mean they dont have any substantive comments on my 
provisional conclusion.
Taking these points together, they dont change my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Gs complaint. If the blinds 
in Mr Gs conservatory cannot be refitted to the replacement roof canopy, I require Aviva 
Insurance Limited to:
cover the cost of replacement blinds as part of the claim and its settlement, in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 Paul King
Ombudsman