DRN-4321860
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Studio Retail Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs G applied for an account with Studio which was agreed with a credit
limit of £200. By June 2021, Studio had increased Mrs Gs credit limit to £1,800. Mrs G says
when she first applied for the account, she had a poor credit rating which Studio ought to
have noticed. She says that if Studio had checked her credit report before increasing her
limits, it would have seen she wasnt managing her finances well and was struggling. Mrs G
complained that Studio had lent to her irresponsibly.
Studio looked into Mrs Gs complaint. It referred to the terms and conditions of the account
which say the credit limit may be changed based on internal data and publicly available
information from the credit reference agencies. It was satisfied it had taken reasonable steps
to ensure the increases were sustainable for her. Studio rejected Mrs Gs complaint.
As she was unhappy with Studios response, Mrs G referred her complaint to us. One of our
investigators looked into it. She felt the first few credit limits  up to £1,000 which was
agreed in July 2019  were reasonable, but the increases to £1,500 in November 2019,
£1,650 in January 2021, and £1,800 in June 2021 ought not to have been provided.
Mrs G accepted what our investigator said, but Studio didnt. It said up to July 2019, Mrs G
only used a low proportion of the limit available and had a zero balance for several months.
Shed not missed any repayments for a year leading up to the £1,500 limit increase and
shed only used £46 of the increase available to her. It considered therefore, Mrs G wasnt
under financial pressure. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reached a different conclusion from that of our investigator. I issued a 
provisional decision saying:
Following our investigators involvement, there is now no dispute about the first few
increases, so Ill focus my decision on the final three  from November 2019 onwards.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on
our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive
considered this approach when deciding this complaint.
Studio needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend
to Mrs G irresponsibly. Its not about Studio assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it
had to consider the impact of the repayments on her. I think there are key questions I need
to consider to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Studio carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G 
was in a position to sustainably repay the debt?
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
oDid Studio make a fair lending decision?
Did Studio act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other way?
There is no set list of checks it had to do, but it could take into account different things such
as the amount of the limit, the monthly repayments and the borrowers circumstances.
Did Studio carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs G was in a
position to sustainably repay the loan?
Studio has relied on statistical evidence that it refers to as creditworthiness and affordability
checks. The evidence it uses is drawn from its own account performance as well as
information from credit reference agencies including the borrowers credit report, income and
indebtedness. The information Studio uses is in line with what Id generally consider to be
reasonable and proportionate for a lending decision. So provided the information its relied
on is accurate, I think Studio had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Ive looked closely at the information Studio used for the increases in limits over £1,000  so
from November 2019 onwards. Ive asked Mrs G to provide details of her income for the tax
years in which the increases took place, as well as bank statements for the same period.
The figures shes provided are broadly in line with the income used by Studio to calculate the
limits its given. That said, the income is slightly inflated in Studios records  probably due to
including benefits Mrs G receives for her son. Studio has said its lending policy would have
allowed her limit to increase to £2,800 based on the information it had, but it tends to
increase limits within the maximum its prepared to offer. So I dont think the slightly lower
income will have altered the decisions taken greatly.
The bank statements show Mrs Gs income coming in monthly and her accounts were being
run reasonably well. There was some use of her overdraft on one account, but this was at a
low level and returned to credit within a few days.
Prior to my involvement, both parties to this complaint accepted our investigators view that
the limit increases prior to November 2019 were reasonable and affordable. As we know,
Mrs Gs limit later increased by a further £800. If shed used the whole limit, that would have
the effect of increasing her minimum payment by less than £50.
Each time it increased her limit, Studio gave Mrs G the opportunity to opt out of it if she didnt
want it. And Mrs Gs balance was generally comfortably below the limits afforded to her, so
her usage doesnt lead me to conclude that she was struggling at the time of the increases
or was hungry for more credit.
All things considered, Im satisfied that Studio carried out reasonable and proportionate
checks. Even if I thought it hadnt, I dont think any further questions it could be expected to
have asked, would have been likely to have led it to reach a different decision for the
reasons Ive set out above.
It follows that I think Studio reached its decisions to increase Mrs Gs limit fairly.
Did Studio act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in some other way?Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Studio has acted unfairly or unreasonably
towards Mrs G in some other way.
I realise what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but, subject to any further
evidence I receive, I dont intend to uphold her complaint. If Mrs G finds herself in financial
difficulty, Id encourage her to work with Studio to find an affordable repayment plan. Id also
take this opportunity to remind Studio of its obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty
fairly.
Studio has accepted my provisional decision, and Mrs G says she has nothing further to add 
in response to it. That being so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman