DRN-4295980
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received in one of Lloyds Bank PLCs branches.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr C complained to the bank about the process, and length of time it took, to change his 
name after he got married.
In an attempt to resolve the matter Lloyds offered Mr C £25 compensation when he first 
reported his complaint. But he refused, saying he wanted at least £100, so the complaint 
was escalated to investigation. After looking fully into the complaint Lloyds concluded 
that it had made no mistakes. Mr C remained unhappy so referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt 
agree with his findings, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what both sides have said  as the investigator noted, their 
recollections of what happened on the day in questions differ by some degree. Mr C has 
suggested that we ask the bank for CCTV evidence but, even when available  and it 
probably isnt now in this case  this type of evidence is rarely conclusive.
Theres no dispute that Mr C had to complete, with the banks help, a fairly lengthy form in 
order to update his name on his account. And the process involved him answering questions 
which he, quite rightly points out, didnt relate directly to the name change. But I accept the 
banks submission that the process is one they had to follow and links in with their duty to 
Know Your Customer.
Im willing to accept that Mr C might have had to wait for the member of staff to get help and 
he may also have had to give the information twice  both these things seem plausible given 
that the member of staff was fairly new to role. And its possible the branch were having 
printer problems, which might also have caused some delays. But Im pleased to see the 
process was completed on the day in question, the form was escalated to the relevant 
department and the name change took effect a few days later.
Its unfortunate that the name change process took longer than Mr C would have liked  he 
says he was in the branch for 45 minutes  and, potentially, was more involved than the 
process employed by other banks. But overall, having taken everything into account, Im not 
persuaded I can fairly instruct the bank to pay compensation to Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman