DRN-3244627
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax hasnt fully reimbursed him for 
the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr K holds several accounts with Halifax. Unfortunately, he was the innocent victim of a 
scam in December 2020.
Just before he finished work for the day, hed received a text message supposedly from 
Halifax asking him in he recognised an attempted transaction at a retailer. Mr K didnt 
recognise the transaction and texted back no. He was then told hed receive a call from the 
banks fraud team.
Within an hour, Mr K received a call from someone claiming to be from Halifaxs fraud team. 
They said that to protect the money in his account hed need to move it. 
Mr K says he challenged the caller and was told that the caller knew lots of personal 
information about him which reassured him. This included Mr Ks mothers maiden name. 
Mr K says that when the caller was able to tell him his mothers maiden name, he was 
persuaded this must be his bank he was speaking to.
Mr K also says the caller told him to check the phone number they were him calling from 
against the phone number written on the back of his bank card. Mr K did this. But they didnt 
quite match  Mr K spotted that one digit was different. 
Mr K queried this discrepancy with the caller. Mr K says the caller told him that the number 
on the back of the card was the general number, and they were calling him from the fraud 
number, which was slightly different. Mr K accepted this explanation.
The caller told him hed need to follow her instructions to move his money. It wouldnt be 
possible to move all the money into one account. She said the procedure was that hed need 
to move it in several payments to a series of different accounts. She said the money would 
be returned to his own account after it had been secured.
Mr K then set up a series of new payees on his Halifax account and making Faster 
Payments transfers as the caller instructed. He transferred the money he held in his other 
Halifax accounts over and sent those sums onward too. The transfers also utilised his 
overdraft.
Halifax says that when Mr K made each payment it showed him a scam warning, saying:
[The above version has been anonymised - in the version Halifax displayed at 
the time, the redacted black box was replaced by Mr Ks full first name.]
Mr K says he recalls this message appearing. He asked the caller about the message and 
was told that this type of warning would sometimes come up when the fraud team were 
moving a customers money. He was told he should just ignore it. Because Mr K believed he 
was speaking to his bank, he says he continued with the payments.
When creating each new payee, Mr K had to enter a payee name. He believed he was 
sending money to account held in his own name and so input his own name as the payee. 
Halifaxs audit records show that the payee name hed entered was then checked against 
the name on the accounts he was sending money to. This is known as a Confirmation of 
Payee check. 
For the first new payee, the audit history shows the payee name did not match. Halifax says 
it showed the following message:
 
Mr K says he doesnt remember seeing this. The second payment was being sent to the 
same destination, so this message didnt appear a second time. Halifax says that each time 
Mr K created a new payee after this (so for payments three to eight inclusive), the receiving 
accounts didnt support the Confirmation of Payee system and so he received a very similar 
message, but saying instead that it hadnt been possible to check the payee name.
After hed made four payments Halifaxs audit records show that its fraud detection system 
blocked payments to some of the new payees Mr K created. Mr K explains he hadnt noticed 
this happening, and the caller just kept giving him new payee details to use. 
Eventually, Mr K had made eight successful Faster Payments transfers to a total of seven 
different accounts. In total, hed sent £14,450.
The following day, Mr K noticed that the money hadnt returned to his account. He also 
wasnt called again as had been promised. He tried to call the number back, but it didnt 
connect. At this point he says his earlier doubts were confirmed and he realised hed been 
scammed. He called Halifax to report what had happened.
Halifax tried to recover Mr Ks funds from the different receiving accounts. However, only a 
total of £1,632.08 remained by the time the fraud was reported. 
One of the receiving banks accepted a share of the blame for the loss. It refunded 50% of 
the relevant payment, which meant Mr K received back a further £1,950.  
Halifax considered whether it was liable to reimburse Mr K for his remaining loss. It looked 
into what had happened as an Authorised Push Payment scam (APP scam) and considered 
the payments Mr K had made against the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code can provide additional 
protection when customers fall victim to APP scams such as this. 
But Halifax didnt think Mr K had taken enough care to check this was really the bank calling 
before hed sent the payments or that those payments were going where he thought they 
were.
It made that point that it had given Mr K Confirmation of Payee messages saying that the 
payee name for the first two payments didnt match the destination account, and that it had 
been unable to match the latter payee details. It said it also showed Mr K personalised scam 
warnings which made him aware it would never call to tell him to move his money to another 
account, and that such a call would be a scam.
Halifax said it accepted it could have done more in relation to payments three to eight. It said 
it would share responsibility for these payments equally with Mr K - so  agreed to refund half 
the value of these payments, a total of £3,525. But it didnt think it was responsible for 
refunding more than this.
In total therefore, Mr K was refunded £7,107.08, leaving him out of pocket by £7,342.92. He 
asked this service to review whether this was a fair outcome.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought Halifax had treated Mr K fairly 
considering what it was required to do under the CRM Code and otherwise. She didnt think 
Halifax needed to pay Mr K more than it already had. 
Mr K didnt accept this was fair. He pointed out that the scammer had known his mothers 
maiden name, his bank card number and his address. This had been why hed thought it 
was his bank he was speaking to.
In light of this disagreement, his complaint has been referred to me to reach a final decision 
on the fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and for 
similar reasons.
Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr K. I can understand entirely why he 
feels strongly that the full loss should be reimbursed by Halifax, and why he doesnt accept 
its fair the bank isnt taking that full responsibility.
However, while I have sympathy for Mr K in what happened, I have to recognise that the 
principal cause of his losses here were the scammers who deceived him. I must also take 
into account that Halifax has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its 
customers give it.
As Ive mentioned above, the CRM Code provides additional protection for the victims of 
APP scams. Im satisfied that all of these payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code.
Halifax has reviewed Mr Ks claim against the requirements of the CRM Code. It accepts it 
shares part of the blame for the losses Mr K suffered. However, I have reviewed everything 
that happened to decide whether the bank now needs to do more than it has already done.
Amongst other things, the CRM Code includes provisions allowing a firm not to reimburse 
APP scam losses fully where the firm can establish that the customer failed to take sufficient 
care when making the payment (exceptions to full reimbursement). This would include 
ignoring an effective warning by not taking the appropriate steps in response. It could also 
include where the customer made a payment without a reasonable basis for believing that 
the person the customer was dealing with was legitimate, or that the payee was the person 
the customer was expecting to pay.
Halifax argues that it has established Mr K didnt take enough care when he made these 
payments, and so it doesnt need to reimburse him by more than it has already done.
So, the issue I need to determine here is whether Halifax has established these exceptions 
to full reimbursement can be fairly applied  in other words, that Mr K ignored an effective 
warning and/or made the payments without the required reasonable basis for belief. In 
determining these points, I have carefully considered everything Mr K has submitted as well 
as the evidence submitted by the bank. 
This was a relatively sophisticated scam. Mr K received a convincing text message that 
created a real concern his account might be at risk. While this didnt appear as part of a 
chain of messages from the legitimate Halifax number, I note that the wording would have 
likely seemed genuine and the inclusion of the last four digits of Mr Ks debit card added to 
the impression of legitimacy.
Following this, the call (supposedly from Halifaxs fraud team) wasnt completely 
unexpected. The number from which the call originated almost exactly mirrored the genuine 
number shown on the back of Mr Ks debit card. The caller knew details about Mr K including 
his mothers maiden name. Hes explained why all of this convinced him.
Of course, that information could have been gathered by the scammer in many different 
ways  it is not information that only Mr Ks bank would have known. I acknowledge that 
Mr K believes that no-one but his bank could know his mothers maiden name, but 
unfortunately while that might not be widely shared information, it is something I am satisfied that a determined fraudster could acquire.
In saying that, I am satisfied that at this point Mr K held a reasonable basis for believing this 
was his bank. Hed challenged the caller and had been persuaded by what hed been told. 
Hed noticed the slight discrepancy in the phone number compared to the number shown on 
the back of his bank card, and also recalls seeing the scam warning messages Halifax 
displayed on his mobile banking app. So, balance Im persuaded he was taking notice of the 
details surrounding the transactions he was carrying out.
However, there were also aspects that I think should have given Mr K greater cause for 
concern and where the explanations he was given by the caller lacked plausibility. In 
particular, its not clear why there would have been a need to send the money in several 
different amounts and to multiple different accounts. The caller told Mr K it just wasnt 
possible to send everything to one account and that this was simply the process, but as a 
starting point I dont think that explanation is particularly persuasive.
Im satisfied that the audit history shows Halifax warned Mr K that the first payee name hed 
input didnt match the name on the destination account (so it wasnt an account in his name). 
I appreciate that Mr K doesnt now recall seeing that warning, but on balance I think it was 
displayed on his mobile banking app.
I also think Mr K most likely would have seen the warning message about the payee name at 
the time  given that he was at that point in the process of inputting the payee details in the 
app.
The message required Mr K to give a response before moving on: to click yes or no to the 
question Do you want to continue. The timing on the audit log shows the next screen wasnt 
triggered until almost two minutes had elapsed  long enough to suggest Mr K had time to 
read and consider it (by contrast, the equivalent delay in moving on from the same warning 
at the time of the last few payments was below 30 seconds).
Given that Mr K believed the accounts he was moving his money to were in his name (and 
he was using his own name as the payee name) I think this reasonably should have caused 
him to doubt what he was being told. It simply didnt match the story he was being told by the 
caller.
Mr K acknowledges seeing the next warning message that was shown by Halifax before hed 
made the first payment. The audit history shows this was displayed shortly after the earlier 
message warning that the account didnt match and so wasnt in his name.
This second warning message said that the bank would never call you to tell you to move 
your money to another account. That text was in bold orange text immediately beneath a 
warning triangle. Having listened to the call where Mr K initially reported the scam to Halifax, 
I note that he was able to repeat this wording unprompted. He has confirmed he read it at 
the time but was told to ignore it by the caller.
While I understand the point hes making here, I find that the warning wording is quite clear 
in stating that the bank would never ask what he was being asked to do. This was a 
significant contradiction to what the caller was telling him  it didnt say that the bank 
wouldnt usually tell people to move their money. Rather, it said never. Its not clear to me 
why Mr K would think the bank might include such a definite negative in its online system if it 
sometimes did ask people to move money like this.
I think its also relevant that the warning addressed him by his first name. It didnt have the 
appearance of a generic warning that might not be relevant to him  it began by making it clear the message was intended for him.
The next line, albeit in slightly smaller text said if Mr K received a call asking him to move 
money like this, then it was a scam. It didnt say it might be a scam  it said it would be a 
scam. It explained that fraudsters could copy the banks phone number (which they had 
attempted here). It said Mr K shouldnt believe the caller and should hang up the phone. 
Mr K acknowledges seeing this message at the time. He recalled it unprompted the following 
afternoon when he reported the scam. I dont think the caller telling him to simply ignore it 
was a convincing story in this situation. The message was addressed specifically to him, and 
described what hed been asked to do as a scam.
This happened just a few minutes after Mr K had created the new payee details on his 
account - and so just after being shown the warning that the payee name didnt match what 
hed input.
On balance, I consider the combined effect of these messages was sufficient for Mr K to at 
least have had significant doubts about what he was being told. Hes acknowledged in his 
later recollections that he hadnt been one hundred percent sure  I think he should have 
trusted his instincts here. What he was being asked to do by the caller was completely the 
opposite of what his banks online banking system was telling him.
I appreciate Mr Ks point about the initial part of the call persuading him he was speaking to 
his bank  including in particular the caller knowing his mothers maiden name. But none of 
that actually proved this was his bank. And everything he was seeing as he made the 
payment contradicted what he was being told - including saying it was a scam. It also 
indicated he was about to send money to an account that wasnt in his name  contrary to 
what he thought. I think at the least Mr K should have had concerns that all might not be as it 
appeared on the surface.
Thinking about the above in the context of the CRM Code, that means I find Halifax was 
entitled to apply the exception for Mr K having held a reasonable basis for believing both that 
he was paying the payee he intended, and that the person he was dealing with was 
legitimate. I consider this also applied to the subsequent payments he made following 
payment one  the basis of the scam remained unchanged.
None of this takes away from the fact that Mr K was the innocent victim of a crime here. But 
that does not mean Halifax is responsible for fully putting right the effects of that crime.
As I am therefore finding that Halifax is entitled to apply that exception to full reimbursement, 
I do not need to also consider whether Mr K ignored an effective warning. However in some 
circumstances the CRM Code required Halifax to provide Mr K with an effective warning  so  
I have considered whether the warnings Halifax gave him met the CRM Codes minimum 
requirements to be classed as an effective warning.
In short, I am satisfied that the terms of the CRM Code are broadly met by the combination 
of the warning messages Halifax provided to Mr K for the first of the eight payments he 
made. It follows that the bank did give Mr K an effective warning in relation to that first 
payment.
When the second payment was made, it was being sent to the same account as payment 
one.  The Confirmation of Payee process was therefore not relevant  it was not a new 
payee. This meant the message about the payee not matching wasnt repeated. That 
included spelling out the consequences of proceeding with the payment if it was going to the 
wrong account. Missing that element, I dont think the scam warning here fully met the minimum 
requirements of an effective warning. But I dont think this was a material failure  I dont 
think it led to the scam succeeding where it wouldnt otherwise have. Ive concluded that 
because Mr K had been shown that message very shortly before, and it hadnt stopped him 
from making the payment on that prior occasion. I see no reason to believe it would have led 
to a different result for the second payment had the payee message been shown to Mr K 
again.
Aside from this, I find that Halifax, as the sending bank, met the other obligations it had 
under the terms of the CRM Code in relation to the first two payments. 
Turning to payments three to eight inclusive, Halifax accepts a share of the responsibility for 
the loss, reimbursing 50% to Mr K. That outcome is in line with the requirements of the CRM 
Code, given that both the bank and Mr K share part of the responsibility.
So, in short, I do not find Halifax has unfairly assessed Mr Ks scam claim against the CRM 
Code. I do not require it to do more than it has already done.
The CRM Code does not represent the full extent of the obligations on Halifax. But it exists 
to provide additional protection where it is relevant. Nonetheless I have finally gone on to 
consider whether Mr K might be entitled to a greater level of reimbursement outside the 
provisions of the CRM Code. 
But taking everything into account, I dont find Halifax liable for the remaining losses from 
payments one and two  Im persuaded it had taken sufficient steps to alert Mr K to the risks 
here. And for similar reasons to those Ive set out in relation to the CRM Code, I consider it is 
fair and reasonable that both Mr K and Halifax share blame equally for the losses that 
resulted from the subsequent payments. 
In saying all of this, I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear that Mr K was the 
victim of this scam. The actions of those behind the scam were cynical and took no regard of 
the impact it would have on Mr K. He is the victim of a crime. But I can only look at what 
Halifax is required to do  I cannot consider the actions of those who have tricked and 
deceived Mr K in that.
With this in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont consider that Halifax needs to do 
more than it has already done and does not need to refund more than it already has paid to 
Mr K. I understand that this is not the outcome Mr K wants and I recognise the impact all of 
this has had on him. But I can reassure Mr K that Ive carefully considered all the details of 
what happened and of his complaint before reaching what I consider to be the fair and 
reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman