DRN-2525665
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out by
Mr M alongside a credit card during a meeting in 2004. Mr M says Barclays mis-sold him the
PPI.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in December 2020 I explained why I didnt think this
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Barclays had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding the policy to his card.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator didnt think
Barclays had given Mr M a choice about taking the policy.
Ive thought about what our adjudicator has said and looked at the available evidence.
Barclays has shown us a copy of the application form that was completed at the time Mr M
applied for his card and PPI. There was a separate section on the form titled additional
benefits and within this section Mr M had a choice to select either yes to take PPI or no to
decline it. The option to take the PPI has been selected and the form has been signed by Mr
M. So, I think Mr M would have been aware the he had a choice and decided to take the
policy.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him.
Mr M has told us he was not entitled to any sick pay at the time he applied for the policy and
had no other way of making the repayments if he wasnt working, and based on what Ive
seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or
limits on the PPI cover, so he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put
him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
I gave Mr M, and Barclays time to respond to my provisional decision, but no further
information was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side responded with anything further for me to consider I see no reason to come 
to a different decision to that explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman