DRN-3114286
The complaint
Ms M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) didnt treat her fairly in 
relation to its handling of her credit card account, information it recorded  and searches it 
made  on her credit file, or her attempts to deal with it on the phone.
She believes much of her difficulty with Virgin Money is connected to a payment dispute and 
linked claim, and that the bank has based its subsequent dealings with her on that dispute.
What happened
For some years, Ms M held a Virgin Money credit card. She says that over that time, shes 
had frequent difficulties in discussing her account with Virgin Money, due to the telephone 
security measures the bank uses. Ms M describes how she was unable to answer some of 
the questions Virgin Money asked her, which she believes is down to the way the bank 
phrases its questions.
By way of example, Ms M says she was asked for her home phone number, when shed 
never given Virgin Money this information, and that it turned out that Virgin Money had her 
mobile number instead. Another time, Virgin Money asked Ms M for the location of her last 
spend using the card. Ms M felt this question was ambiguous, as it wasnt clear whether this 
meant her location, or the retailer. She says on several occasions Virgin Money unfairly 
terminated conversations when she queried things, and that made it difficult for her to 
access and deal with issues on her account.
Virgin Money took a decision not to renew Ms Ms card. Ms M felt Virgin Money had decided 
this because of disputes she had with it. Shes unhappy with the way Virgin Money dealt with 
matters, saying that it closed  then reopened  her card account, and undertook 
unauthorised credit searches, causing an impact on her credit file. Ms M further expressed 
concern that her accounts were no longer on her credit file, including one that was still open 
with an active balance.
Ms M adds that she is also upset about conflicting information Virgin Money gave her about 
closure of her account. She says that at one point, Virgin Money told her she had asked for 
her account to be closed, and that it was doing so in response to a request shed made. Of 
particular relevance was a claim related to a purchase Ms M made with the card at a retailer, 
L. Ms M says Virgin Money wrongly kept money L returned under the claim. She says the 
bank told her it was keeping the money because it had already applied a credit to her 
account.
Ms M disputes receiving such a credit, and says Virgin Money gave her conflicting and 
inaccurate information about what had happened to the money. Shes also unhappy that this 
happened after the decision to close the account, and believes this triggered inaccurate 
information on her credit file.
our previous consideration
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint points. The investigator didnt think 
Virgin Money had decided against renewing Ms Ms card because of any underlying dispute. 
She was satisfied the bank was entitled to take this decision, and that it hadnt acted unfairly 
in doing so. However, she found Virgin Money had given Ms M misleading information about 
who had instigated the account closure, and failed to explain things correctly.
The investigator acknowledged there had been transaction activity on Ms Ms account after it 
was closed. She said this was due to the dispute with L, which hadnt been resolved before 
the account was closed. The investigator found the account activity had ultimately resulted in 
the correct zero account balance, but accepted it would have been alarming for Ms M to 
receive statements showing transactions after she understood the account was closed.
Noting Virgin Money had demonstrated it had attempted to contact Ms M three times to 
explain what had happened, the investigator didnt recommend any further action. No 
account had been opened (or reopened), and there was no record of any impact on Ms Ms 
credit file, such as additional credit checks or increased available credit. Nor did the 
investigator find anything to suggest Ms Ms accounts were removed from her credit file. 
Rather, she was satisfied the credit file still showed one open and one closed account.
On the issue of call security, our investigator accepted that Ms M was frustrated by the 
identification processes Virgin Money had in place. She noted the problem with the landline 
and mobile number, and that Virgin Money had said this was because Ms M had entered her 
mobile in the landline field when making her account application. The investigator thought 
this might well have been a mistake, but that Virgin Money hadnt acted wrongly in the 
questions it asked to verify Ms Ms call.
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a decision to both parties dealing with some of 
the aspects of Ms Ms complaint. He set out his conclusions in relation to the security 
process Virgin Money followed when Ms M contacted it by telephone, and to credit searches 
carried out on Ms Ms credit file. Ms M felt that decision didnt cover all the complaint points 
shed raised, so the matter was passed to me to review those further points.
my provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how best I thought matters should be resolved. I made clear in my 
provisional decision that my review wouldnt be addressing those aspects previously 
considered by my ombudsman colleague. To be clear, my review deals with the complaint 
points that werent covered in my colleagues decision.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Neither party disputes that Virgin Money held wrong information saying the card 
wasnt renewed at Ms Ms request. Ms M says thats what she was told by Virgin 
Money, and Ive no doubt this caused her confusion and some upset. She was clear 
she hadnt instigated the action, and Virgin Money has since confirmed this. I think 
this has informed her overall perception that Virgin Money took the decision not to 
renew the card because of her past and ongoing disputes. She feels, quite strongly 
and I think with some justification in respect of communication, that Virgin Money has 
treated her poorly.
Thats not to say that Virgin Money was obliged to renew Ms Ms card facility, or that 
it acted unfairly in not doing so. Its for the bank, rather than me, to decide whether it 
should continue to provide Ms M with credit facilities. When a bank makes that 
decision, it should communicate it clearly, and seek to address queries or concerns its customer might have. Im minded to say that while Virgin Moneys initial 
communication about its decision was clear enough, some of its subsequent actions 
were less clear, and have contributed to Ms Ms dissatisfaction.
In this respect, Ive already mentioned the wrong information Virgin Money gave Ms 
M, suggesting shed asked to close her account. And irrespective of whether the 
account was closed, Virgin Money ought to have done more to explain the progress 
of the claim against L. Its apparent from the banks contact notes even in the early 
stages of that claim that Ms M was finding it difficult to follow what was being done 
and was becoming upset.
Im satisfied Virgin Money processed the refund appropriately. Ms Ms account was 
credited with the transaction amount when the dispute was raised. The subsequent 
transactions were simply internal accounting adjustments that balanced each other 
out.
But Virgin Money doesnt appear to have pro-actively explained to Ms M what it was 
doing. Had it done so Ms M might have understood there would be further 
transactions and that she would receive statements showing them, I think it might 
have meant Ms M wouldnt have concluded that another account had been opened 
without her agreement. That would have avoided some of her distress and her need 
to complain. As it was, she only received that explanation as part of Virgin Moneys 
response to her complaint, after she contacted Virgin Money to question what was 
going on.
Like our investigator, Ive found no reason to think that Virgin Moneys actions have 
caused inaccurate information to be recorded on Ms Ms credit file. Theres been no 
lasting financial impact, and her overall credit score doesnt seem to have been 
affected. So the remaining issue for me to address is whether I think Virgin Money 
should compensate Ms M for the confusion and upset she experienced due to what I 
consider are shortcomings in its communication with her.
I proposed that Virgin Money pay Ms M £200 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused by its actions, and asked both parties for any further 
comments.
response to my provisional findings
Ms M was unhappy with a number of aspects she felt I hadnt addressed in my provisional 
decision. I asked her to clarify which points she considered had been missed. She declined 
to provide further information in this respect and I explained that in the absence of this, I 
would be proceeding based on the points I had identified and addressed.
One point Ms M did make quite persuasively was to query my finding that Virgin Money 
credited her account when she raised her dispute over the claim against L. Her further 
submissions prompted me to make additional enquiries of Virgin Money, which showed its 
original evidence to be inaccurate. Virgin Money said that, rather than crediting Ms Ms 
account at the time, it had not done so and the information about this in its complaint 
correspondence was wrong.
Virgin Money also sent me a copy of a separate decision issued by another of my 
ombudsman colleagues, which dealt with Virgin Moneys response to the claim relating to L. 
That decision awarded the full amount of the purchase  including the disputed deposit 
transaction  to Ms M. Virgin Money also provided copies of cheque payments it had made 
to Ms M in settlement of that claim.As a result, I was satisfied Ms M was not out of pocket in relation to the transaction. 
However, in light of the further confusion Virgin Moneys earlier evidence had caused, it 
offered to increase the settlement proposal on this case from £200 to £300, which I felt was 
fair. I put this revised proposal to Ms M, but she didnt accept it, so Ive proceeded with this 
final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, other than correcting the inaccurate information relating to whether Virgin 
Money refunded the deposit money to Ms M earlier than it actually did, Ive not been 
presented with any persuasive reason to change my findings. While I acknowledge Ms M 
remains unhappy, that doesnt mean I should reach a different conclusion on the key 
aspects of her complaint.
So for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, which Ive reproduced and corrected 
here and which forms part of my determination, I think that the £300 proposed compensation 
is a fair and reasonable way for Virgin Money to put things right. I hope Ms M will now feel 
able to accept it in order to bring matters to a close.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) must pay Ms M £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman