DRN-3194985
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Honeycomb Finance Limited rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Honeycomb, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which he says they werent. After Mr H 
realised this, he paid off the original loan using another, lower cost loan in order to mitigate 
his losses. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over the 
ten-year term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Honeycomb disagreed. It said that the credit agreement made clear what the repayments 
were, and it cannot be expected that the credit agreement would set out detailed information 
about the solar panels beyond their basic cost. Honeycomb says the only evidence that the 
solar panels were sold as self-funding is Mr Hs testimony, and Honeycomb does not think 
that is sufficient to uphold the complaint. If the installer sold the solar panels as self-funding, 
it was likely referring to the benefit over the twenty-year life of the system, not just over the 
ten-year term of the loan. If the complaint is upheld, Honeycomb questioned how it would 
calculate the future benefit between now and the end of the loan term.
As the adjudicator could not resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H alleges that the installer misrepresented the solar panels as being self-funding  that 
the benefits of the panels would meet or exceed the cost of the loan over the ten-year loan 
term. He says that it is clear that the solar panels will not provide such a benefit, and at the 
end of the loan term he will be significantly out of pocket. Had he realised this he wouldnt 
have agreed to buy the solar panels. 
So, I need to consider whether there was a misrepresentation. And if I conclude that there 
was, I need to decide what Honeycomb should do to put things right. 
What was Mr H told?
The evidence of what Mr H was told is not limited to his testimony. He has provided a photo 
taken from the salespersons laptop showing the estimated benefits of the solar panels. 
This indicated the monthly payment on the finance will be £141.99 (it was actually £139.49 
according to the credit agreement), that for the first three years the annual repayments 
would exceed the annual benefits (the first-year benefit was shown as more than £1,400), 
but from the fourth year the annual benefits would exceed the annual loan repayments by 
increasing amounts. By the end of the tenth year the benefit is shown to total £19,601.82. 
While the total cost of the loan is not shown on this screenshot, 120 repayments of £141.99 
would total £17,038.80. And from the loan agreement (with slightly lower repayments) I can 
see that the total amount payable was £16,738.31 if the loan ran to its full term.
So, bearing in mind Mr Hs testimony and the other documents, Im satisfied that he was sold 
the solar panel system on the basis that the benefits would exceed the cost (including the 
loan interest) over the ten-year term of the loan  in other words that it would be self-funding.
Was this a misrepresentation?
From the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) statement provided, the solar panels generated approximately 
1,983kWh per year between 22 February 2018 and 13 July 2020. This resulted in total FIT 
payments of £288.05, or an average of £120.57 per year. 
At the time of installation, Mr H was paying a unit rate of 13.111p per kWh for his electricity. 
So, to achieve the estimated first year benefit of over £1,400, he would have had to use 
electricity from the solar panels worth at least £1,279.43. This would equate to 9,758kWh of 
electricity  which is about five times the electricity the solar panels have generated each 
year. 
So, given the level of electricity generated by the solar panels, it is clear that the estimate of 
benefits given to him during the sale was significantly more than was realistically possible. In 
other words, this was misrepresented to him. 
Did this induce Mr H into buying the solar panels?
Mr H has indicated that he agreed to purchase the solar panels because they were 
presented to him as being self-funding. Ive concluded that was a misrepresentation and Ive 
decided to uphold the complaint. So, I think that Honeycomb should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Normally wed look to put the customer in the position hed have been in if the 
misrepresentation didnt happen. That would involve the loan being cancelled, any payments 
refunded, and the solar panels removed. 
However, given the nature of the solar panel installation and that this would be significantly 
onerous on Honeycomb, we think a fairer resolution is available. That is for Honeycomb to 
put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings 
and income to Mr H from the solar panels over the ten-year term of the loan, so he pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system and any future benefits. 
For periods where there is data available (such as FIT statements showing the electricity 
generated and electricity bills showing Mr Hs electricity usage and unit price) this should be 
used. For periods where this isnt available, including future dates, reasonable assumptions 
should be used. The available data shows the solar panels generated approximately 1,738kWh in the first 
year. A reasonable assumption can be made that the solar panels will generate 0.5% less 
each year. 
Mr H should provide evidence of the FIT export and generation tariff rates that he receives. 
These rates increase by the Retail Price Index inflation rate. For future dates Honeycomb 
can make a reasonable assumption about the rate of inflation. 
When calculating electricity savings Honeycomb should assume that Mr H uses 37% of the 
electricity generated by the solar panels. Where evidence if available to show this, 
Honeycomb should use the actual unit prices Mr H was paying to calculate his savings. For 
future dates and those where there is no evidence, Honeycomb should make a reasonable 
assumption about the electricity price (for example by making a reasonable assumption for 
annual electricity price inflation). 
While the assumptions used to calculate future benefits may not be perfect, I think they 
provide a fair and reasonable way to resolve the matter now. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than the calculated 
benefits, then Honeycomb needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show 
that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be 
shared with Mr H by way of explanation. 
Because Mr H has settled the loan, Honeycomb should pay him the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest per year on any overpayments for the time he is without that money.
Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing through his mortgage so, if he hasnt already done 
so, Mr H should supply evidence of the refinance to Honeycomb and Honeycomb should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Honeycomb loan.
2. Add 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add 8% simple interest from the date of each payment on the refinanced loan until 
Mr H receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the solar panel system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Honeycomb that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Honeycomb should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Honeycomb Finance Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman