DRN-4193290
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the money he 
lost when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In 2015, Mr W says he was recommended to invest in a company Ill refer to as S. Between 
late 2015 and early 2017, he paid a substantial amount to S from his NatWest accounts. 
It was uncovered that S were a scam when family heard Mr W speaking to S. By that point, 
he was trying to withdraw his funds, but was told they were in escrow and that he had to pay 
S in order to release the funds. The scam was reported to NatWest, but no complaint was 
raised until August 2022. 
In his complaint, Mr W (via representatives) said NatWest should have done more to protect 
him. NatWest didnt accept liability for his loss. It said he was questioned about the first few 
payments to S, and so after that it wasnt deemed suspicious. 
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr W referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
first of all found we couldnt consider some of the payments as they had been raised too late. 
Both parties agreed we could, and would, only consider payments after 30 August 2016.
For those payments we could consider, the investigator didnt think NatWest should be held 
liable for the loss. She didnt think it was at fault for not uncovering the scam at the time, nor 
did she think it could have done more to successfully recover the funds. 
Mr W didnt agree. He didnt think NatWest did enough, bearing in mind the amounts he was 
sending and that he made the payments in branch. He also didnt think his circumstances 
had adequately been taken into account. And so the case was escalated to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Although Mr W was scammed, its accepted that he authorised the payments. In line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009, NatWest was expected to execute his authorised 
payment instructions without undue delay. So the starting position is that Mr W, rather than 
NatWest, is liable for the loss he incurred. 
However, I have considered whether NatWest ought to have been alert to a fraud risk in 
relation to these payments  and if so, whether it ought to have been able to prevent (some 
of) Mr Ws fraudulent losses. As we do expect banks to help protect customers from fraud 
and scams.
First, Ive considered whether the payments should have appeared indicative of fraud. We 
generally consider that to be the case if they fit a known pattern of fraud or otherwise appear 
significantly out of keeping with the customers usual account activity.
The payments Mr W has disputed, and which fall within my jurisdiction to consider, were 
made from two accounts he held (in a personal capacity) with NatWest. He commonly used 
both accounts to make significant, high value payments. Including what appeared to be other 
high-value investments. Although weve been told some of these were also (separate) 
scams, that wasnt known to the bank at the time. So those payments would have affected 
NatWests judgment of what constituted normal account activity. 
On one account, there were payments between £20,000 and £30,000 in the lead up to a 
scam payment of around £35,000 in October 2016. The remaining scam payments, made 
after this, were for much smaller amounts. 
On the other account, there were also high value payments in the run up to a scam payment 
of around £50,000 in October 2016. This included a payment of £52,000 in August 2016, 
which Mr W has confirmed wasnt connected to the scam. There was then a flurry of even 
higher value payments before the final scam payments, for similar amounts, in February 
2017. 
Furthermore, the scam company Mr W was paying hadnt  yet  been publicly identified as 
of concern by the UK financial regulator. And he had been dealing with them since 2015. As 
NatWest explained in its final response, it questioned him the first few times he paid the 
company  and it seems he confirmed he was satisfied with them.
I know Mr W has challenged whether this earlier questioning was robust enough to consider 
the scam company a trusted payee. As he is aware, I cant consider NatWests actions in 
relation to those earlier scam payments. But when considering the later payments, I do 
consider it relevant he had paid the merchant before, over an extended period, following 
questioning by the bank. So NatWest would have seen the merchant as a payee trusted by 
Mr W. I think that made the fraud risk less obvious; this was a long-running and 
sophisticated scam. 
Overall, Im persuaded it was reasonable for NatWest to process the scam payments in line 
with Mr Ws authorised requests. As Im not convinced it ought to have identified them as 
indicative of fraud.
That said, I do appreciate the payments were high value, and were made in branch  
meaning the bank may well have had set processes in place to check them. Understandably, 
given the time that has passed, we dont have much detail about what was discussed. So, in 
the interest of completeness, Ive gone on to consider whether targeted questioning about 
the payments at the time was likely to have uncovered the scam. 
If NatWest asked Mr W about the payments at the time, which I consider it quite likely it 
would have done to some extent, he would probably have explained he had already 
discussed the investment with it previously. I think NatWest would likely have had records of 
those prior interactions and would have been able to see the company was an established 
payee. Furthermore, Mr W has told us that, by the end of the scam, S threatened him not to alert 
outside agencies to the full situation, or else he wouldnt recover any of the money he had 
invested. Which strengthens my view Mr W would not have divulged more than he had done 
previously, which we know didnt uncover the scam. 
In those circumstances, Im not convinced questioning about the payments Im considering 
was likely to have uncovered the scam. So, even if NatWest didnt do enough, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to hold it liable for Mr Ws loss  as it is not clear enough that 
NatWest ought to have prevented this. 
I am mindful of Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the scam, which are well known to both 
parties. And so I have considered whether NatWest met its duty of care to him. Overall, Im 
not persuaded NatWest ought to have done more, in response to Mr W's circumstances, that 
would have prevented his loss. 
NatWest says it wasnt aware of any health issues for which Mr W required further support at 
the time of the scam. And the medical records he has provided dont demonstrate he had 
symptoms at that time which ought to have been obvious to the bank. So I cant see it ought 
to have known to provide him with further support in relation to these payments. 
It appears NatWest tried to attempt recovery when Mr W reported the scam but didnt 
receive anything back. Unfortunately, that is common in scams like this; the funds tend to be 
moved on quickly to avoid detection. Ive not seen anything persuasive to show NatWest 
missed an opportunity to recover the fraudulent loss.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr W. It is clear to me that, while in difficult 
circumstances, he was preyed upon by the scammers  who used sophisticated techniques 
to persuade him to part with his funds. But my role is to decide whether its fair to hold 
NatWest, as his bank, liable for his loss. For the reasons I have explained, Im not 
persuaded it is. Nor do I think NatWest needs to take other action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman