DRN-2595988
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed her after shes said 
she was the victim of fraud.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both sides so I wont go into too much 
detail here. Miss P has disputed many transactions on her Barclays current account 
throughout 2018, 2019 and 2020 totalling over £3,000.
Shes said she thinks she knows the person who has carried out the transactions. She 
believes they have cloned her card and obtained her payment details and online log-ins 
without her knowledge. She has concerns this person has been following her and payments 
theyve made in her local area and to her children have been made in order to make it 
appear as though the spending is hers.
Barclays havent upheld Miss Ps complaint. Having investigated her claims it didnt feel 
overall there was evidence any fraud had taken place. It did, however, make a payment of 
£200 in compensation as it appears it initially didnt include some of the transactions shed 
disputed in its investigation.
Unhappy with Barclays investigation into her complaint Miss P brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss P was unhappy with this the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything Miss P has said very carefully its clear she genuinely has 
concerns about many transactions that have taken place over the past two years. Its also 
clear how worried she is about the involvement of a third party she believes has been 
accessing her information and influencing her behaviour. 
Although I have read and understood all of the arguments and points Miss P has made in 
this case, and I have taken them into account, I wont be responding to them in detail in my 
decision. This isnt intended to be a discourtesy, its just that my decision will focus on what I 
consider to be central to her complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
Although I dont doubt Miss P believes she has been the victim of fraud, I dont feel there is 
sufficient or persuasive evidence in this case to support this. So as it stands I dont think 
Barclays has acted unreasonably in not reimbursing Miss P for the transactions she is 
disputing or has doubts about. 
Based on what we currently know and understand about how fraud tends to be perpetrated, 
we dont know of anyway someone mightve been able to make a copy of Ms Ps card such 
that they couldve used it as thought it was a genuine card linked to her account over the 
years. Especially given multiple cards have been linked to the account over the period of the 
disputed transactions. 
So it seems the only way someone other than Ms P couldve carried out the disputed 
transactions is if they had been repeatedly and very frequently taking Ms Ps cards over the 
years and then returning them without her knowledge. Based on the frequency of the 
transactions, and the fact that some of them take place minutes after transactions Ms P has 
said she made, it doesnt seem plausible someone wouldve been able to take her card an 
return it in order to carry out all the transactions shes disputed.
Some of the transactions Ms P has disputed were carried out using her online banking. And I 
dont think shes been able to provide a plausible explanation as to how someone mightve 
gotten this information without her knowledge. And whilst I have considered her more recent 
comments about how someone mightve been controlling her in order to obtain information, 
at the moment, I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence to support this. 
All of the transactions Ms P has disputed are in line with transactions she generally makes 
day to day. For example, they have been carried out at ATMs or in shops she generally uses 
for amounts in line with her general use of the account, usually under £20. Some of the 
online transfers are to her children and shes also disputed some amounts that have been 
refunded to her account. 
This isnt consistent with the type of transactions wed generally expect to see when a 
fraudster has accessed an account. Its not clear why someone would obtain access to 
someones account and carry out transactions that dont benefit them, such as transferring 
money to their relatives. Its also unusual that a fraudster would, rather than accessing all the 
money could in a short space of time, carry out many smaller transactions over a longer 
period which would increase the risk of them being caught.
Ive considered what Ms P has said about this carefully and I understand she feels the 
fraudster has intentionally carried out transactions similar to hers to avoid detection. But 
when considering this overall, and alongside some of the other points Ive mentioned, I dont 
think this seems likely. 
Id also note that although Ms P says there is lots of genuine spending in between, shes 
said nearly half of the transactions on her account are fraudulent and account for a 
significant proportion of her income. If these transactions werent hers and she didnt benefit 
from them, it seems her living expenses and ability to pay for things she needed wouldve 
been significantly impacted. She hasnt explained how she was able to get by for so long 
without the money shes said was taken by someone else.
It also appears from some of the comments Ms P has made when shes highlighted the 
transactions she has concerns about, that she is sometimes unsure about whether or not 
they were her. For example, for one transaction shes said I dont think I wouldve spent that 
much on that date. And, some of her reasons for evidencing the payments werent her 
arent things I wouldnt expect her bank to reasonably verify  for example, transactions in a supermarket she says she never uses or that she doesnt go to certain places as often as 
transactions suggest so they couldnt have been her.
I can see why, due to the nature of the transactions, it might be difficult for Ms P to recall 
exactly how spending occurred. And I know shes suggested her bank needs to do more to 
try and find out which transactions were genuine and which werent. But this isnt something 
I would reasonably expect Barclays to do here. 
From the evidence available it seems her genuine card or personalised security information 
has been used to carry out all the transactions Ms P is disputing. And aside from her 
testimony, which I have taken into account, she hasnt been able to explain or evidence any 
plausible explanation as to how someone else wouldve been able to access all her details 
and card so frequently without her knowledge. So overall I think its reasonable Barclays is 
holding her liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman