DRN-4021785
The complaint
Mr R complains about two pension plans he has with ReAssure Limited. He says he paid 
two amounts into two different policies. But when he receives an annual statement, these 
are both shown as one pension. He would like the annual statement to show his policies 
separately. 
What happened
I understand that Mr R made two pension contributions into pensions that ReAssure is now 
responsible for. He paid £500 into one pension in 1992, and £500 into another pension in 
1993. Its not clear if these were separate policies although they do have separate policy 
numbers now. Mr R receives an annual statement each year which shows the total value of 
the personal pensions he has with ReAssure, but it doesnt show how this value is split 
between his two policies. 
However, Ive seen correspondence that shows ReAssure will provide separate fund values 
for each of the pensions on request. I understand that Mr R would also be able to access 
this information online where he could see separate amounts for each policy. Mr R has said 
that he doesnt want to use the online service. 
Mr R complained in 2021 to ReAssure about this issue, and some delays he had had been 
having, when he was trying to obtain full information about his pensions. ReAssure said it 
wouldnt be able to change the format of how the annual pension statement was produced. 
But it would provide full information about his policies when Mr R asked for them. It 
apologised for any delays about this in the past, and any confusion or distress this caused 
overall. It has paid compensation of £175 in total for all of this.  
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that ReAssure couldnt provide a tailored annual statement in the way that Mr R wanted. 
But the information he says he needed was available to him. 
He did agree that any delays in the provision of information may have caused Mr R some 
distress and inconvenience in the past, but he thought the compensation that ReAssure had 
paid was reasonable for this. 
Mr R disagreed, saying he doesnt have any confidence that ReAssure would provide the 
information when he requested it, or that the online portal would provide it. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I understand that Mr Rs pensions were started with a third party and that ReAssure is now 
responsible for them. Ive not seen any information from when they were started and they 
would have been transferred over to ReAssure at the same time. Which may explain why the 
annual statement is produced in the way it is.  
ReAssures annual statement adds the value of both of these polices together, rather than 
say, providing information for each policy seperately. It has been unable to tell us why it 
provides the information in this way, but it has confirmed that it is unable to change the 
format of the annual statement. 
Its worth noting that the annual statement doesnt provide incorrect information. It shows the 
total value, each year, of the pensions that Mr R has with ReAssure. I dont think its wrong 
to show this and this information may be useful to Mr R.
But I agree that it would be helpful if ReAssure was able to provide the information Mr R 
wanted each year, so Ive looked to see how its inability to do this automatically affects him. 
Mr R says he needs different information as he wants to withdraw from his pensions 
regularly, so he needs to be aware of the value of them to do this accurately. But ReAssure 
can provide this information on request. I appreciate there have been some delays in doing 
this in the past, but these seem to have been rectified. And I understand Mr R could access 
this information whenever he wanted to online. 
So, whilst Mr R is clearly unhappy with the way some information is presented to him, given 
he can get the information he says he wants relatively easily, and in a few other ways, I dont 
think he is prevented from making the withdrawals due to the format of the annual statement. 
Given all of the above, I think that the payments ReAssure have already made, that total 
£175, is reasonable for any inconvenience Mr R may have suffered. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman