DRN-2964041
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon, cancelled a decreasing term 
assurance policy he took out with them in 2009 but continued talking premiums until 2019. 
What happened
Mr T applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with Aegon in 2009. The application 
was made on-line through a third-party. Aegon started to collect premiums from 13 May 
2009 and sent Mr T a copy of the on-line application form to check. Mr T responded and told 
them he had a Neurofibromatosis. So, Aegon applied to Mr Ts GP for further information, 
but the GP told them they were awaiting the results of a referral theyd made. Aegon wrote to 
Mr T and asked him to provide more information. Mr T told Aegon thought the lumps he had 
were benign and that he had an appointment in August 2009 at the hospital to see a 
specialist.
In November 2009, Aegon asked Mr T for a further update. Mr T replied by letter to say he 
hadnt been able to attend a pre-operative assessment earlier in the month, but he was 
awaiting a new appointment and he would be in touch. Aegon then sent Mr T a declaration 
of health form to complete in December 2009 and sent another in early January 2010. When 
Aegon didnt receive a response from Mr T they wrote to him on 28 January 2010 to tell him 
theyd delayed a decision on accepting his policy for 12 months and he could reapply then.
Aegon continued to collect premiums on Mr Ts policy until October 2019. When Aegon told 
Mr T of their error he complained he didnt know the policy had been cancelled. He told 
Aegon they should allow the policy to continue. Aegon issued a final response to Mr T in 
January 2020 and said theyd made a mistake in taking premiums for the policy and had 
refunded them. Aegon said they werent wrong to cancel the policy and said they wouldnt 
restart the policy. They paid Mr T £500.00 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T didnt agree with Aegon and brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for Mr T and thought that Aegon acted reasonably when they 
cancelled the policy but felt they should also pay Mr T 8% simple interest per year on the 
premiums. Our investigator thought Aegons offer to pay Mr T £500.00 for the shock of 
finding out in 2019 that his policy had been cancelled in 2009 was a reasonable one.
Mr T didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr T will be disappointed with my final decision but for very much the same 
reasons as the investigator, I wont be asking Aegon to re-instate the policy. I consider they 
acted reasonably in delaying it in 2010. I consider the payment of £500.00 for the shock Mr T 
wouldve felt when he received the 2019 letter from Aegon, telling him he didnt have a policy 
with them, is reasonable too. However, I will be asking Aegon pay Mr T 8% simple interest 
per year on the premiums they refunded in November 2019. I will now explain how Ive 
reached my final decision.
Ive seen that soon after Mr T applied for the policy he told Aegon he was having a medical 
investigation or consultation for Neurofibromatosis. I would expect Aegon to have made 
further enquiries of Mr T and his GP, and they did this. In August 2009 Mr T confirmed he 
had been referred by his GP and later in the year he told Aegon he would be in touch with 
them after his consultation. The letters Aegon sent to Mr T, which its reasonable to conclude 
from his responses hed seen, made it reasonably clear that if he didnt tell them the 
outcome of the referral, Aegon may reject any future claim and cancel the policy.
When Mr T hadnt been in touch with Aegon by December 2009, they wrote to him and 
asked him to complete a declaration of health form but didnt receive a response from him. 
Mr T says he didnt receive the letters Aegon sent him in November and December 2009, 
nor a letter in early January 2010 about his policy. Ive seen copies of the letters Aegon say 
they sent, and they have the same address as the previous letters sent to Mr T. Im 
persuaded its likely Aegon sent these letters. I consider it unlikely that Mr T wouldnt have 
received any of the four letters Ive referred to as hed previously been receiving letters 
Aegon had sent him.
So, Im satisfied Aegon took reasonable steps to contact Mr T for an update on his medical 
condition and provided a declaration of health form for him to complete so that they could 
medically underwrite the policy. And, when Mr T didnt respond, Aegon decided to delay the 
policy and wrote to Mr T on 28 January 2010 to tell him he would have to submit a new 
application. Ive seen a copy of this letter and Im persuaded its more likely Aegon sent this 
letter to Mr T too.
Mr T says that he understood Aegon were going to get all the information from his GP so 
they could underwrite the policy. I acknowledge Mr Ts comment and his testimony that he 
didnt receive the letters Aegon sent him in December 2009 and January 2010. However, Mr 
T told Aegon he was waiting for a pre-operative assessment in November, but he didnt 
provide them with an update as he said he would. Aegon were awaiting an update from Mr T 
and not his GP. They told Mr T what would happen if he didnt respond. And because Aegon 
couldnt assess the risk of accepting the policy they told Mr T they would delay it and he 
would need to reapply after a year. I dont consider Aegon did anything wrong here.
When Aegon told Mr T theyd delayed his policy they shouldve cancelled the direct debit 
and they shouldve refunded the premiums Mr T had already paid. Aegon accept they didnt 
do this, but after realising the payments had still been collected, they refunded all the 
premiums Mr T paid from May 2009 through to October 2019. Whilst this may seem to be 
appropriate to Aegon, I dont consider it takes into account that Mr T has been deprived of 
these funds for a considerable period. Therefore, Ive decided it would be fair and 
reasonable for Aegon to pay Mr T 8% simple interest on these premiums from May 2009 
until they sent his refund on 4 November 2019.
Mr T says he thought he had been covered for 10 years and that now life cover is more 
expensive for him. He also asks what wouldve happened if he had made a claim in this 
time. In this regard Im satisfied that Aegon made it clear to Mr T in their letters in 2009 that if 
he didnt tell them what the outcome of the referral for Neurofibromatosis was, they may 
reject any future claim and cancel the policy. So, without a response from Mr T its possible 
any claim wouldve been declined, but that would depend on the outcome of the medical 
referral and its too speculative for me to comment any further on this matter.
I understand Mr T wouldve been shocked to find out the premiums Aegon had collected had 
been taken in error, and that his policy had been delayed and ultimately cancelled. Mr T says that he saw the premiums being collected from his account each month and it was 
reasonable for him to assume the policy was in place. However, I consider the letters Aegon 
sent Mr T in January 2010 explained they were waiting for his response and that ultimately 
the policy had been delayed. Therefore, I consider the apology and the goodwill payment of 
£500.00 already paid by Aegon is a fair and reasonable remedy. In my opinion it reflects the 
impact on Mr T when he received a letter from Aegon 10 years after the policy had been 
cancelled, and the shock this wouldve caused him.  
Putting things right
Aegon have already returned Mr Ts premiums, apologised and paid him £500.00, so I will 
be asking them to also pay 8% per annum simple interest on the premiums theyve returned. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon should pay Mr T 8% per 
annum simple interest on the premiums collected between 13 May 2009 and the 4 
November 2019, the date they returned the premiums to Mr T.
If Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr T how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman