DRN-1406809
The complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc has incorrectly applied adverse 
information on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr B had a Platinum account with NatWest which incurred a monthly fee. Mr B wished to 
close his account and went into branch to complete this request. However, he says he 
didn't have his debit card with him. So, NatWest advised him to cancel his direct debits and 
standing orders. Mr B says he did this. But he forgot he held an account which incurred a 
fee. So, once he had withdrawn his funds, and the account balance was zero, the account 
fee continued to debit his account. Mr B says, he didn't receive statements, so was unaware 
his account was overdrawn and as a result he was incurring charges and interest.
When Mr B went into branch to close the account, he says he was told there was an 
outstanding balance on the account. But he says the advisor told him he wouldnt need to 
pay this if it was solely made up of fees. So Mr B challenged this, however, he received a 
default notice advising he still had an outstanding balance. Eventually NatWest notified 
credit reference agencies that Mr B had defaulted. Mr B feels this is unfair as NatWest was 
aware he had changed banks and was no longer using the account or associated benefits. 
 Mr B said this affected his ability to get a mortgage, open a business account and as a 
result he had to get a loan.
NatWest looked into Mr Bs complaint and it said the charges had been applied correctly. 
And as a default notice and formal demand notice had expired prior to Mr B paying the 
balance he owed, a default was reported to credit reference agencies correctly. However, 
NatWest agreed to remove the default dated 31 May 2018 and this would be replaced with 
fully satisfied. But Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator investigated Mr Bs complaint and she agreed NatWest had acted unfairly. 
To summarise she said, as NatWest were unable to prove that Mr B had received 
statements, she feels he wouldn't have been aware that fees would have accrued on his 
account. She felt NatWest had acted reasonably by removing the default, but she felt that Mr 
B should have been compensated for the trouble and upset he experienced by not receiving 
the statements. She said NatWest should pay Mr B £100 and refund the charges applied 
between October 2017 and February 2018 .
NatWest accepted our investigators opinion. But Mr B felt the compensation was too low. 
He says this impacted his credit rating dramatically and as a result he was unable to open a 
business account and obtain a mortgage. As Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings, 
the case was passed to me to consider. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators finding for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
I have considered both parties testimonies carefully. Mr B by his own admission has said, he 
forgot his account was one which incurred a fee. So, when he withdrew the balance and 
stopped using the account, he forgot the fee would still be applied if the account hadnt 
closed. 
Having reviewed the statements on the account it appears that Mr B stopped using the 
account somewhere between September and October 2017. However, the account fee was 
still applied up until February 2018 (along with associated charges). I have reviewed Mr Bs 
online login history, and it doesn't appear that Mr B had logged onto his online banking 
during this time. Mr B has said he didn't receive statements during this period and NatWest 
hasnt been able to provide evidence showing statements were issued. So with that in mind, 
while I do accept that Mr B does had a duty to ensure he is managing his account, if the 
account was still open and accruing charges, as it appears it was, NatWest had a duty to 
ensure statements were issued (unless Mr B had opted out of paper statements, but I cant 
see this was the case). As it is unable to evidence it did send statements or notification of 
charges. So on balance I think its likely it didnt. And I think it is reasonable to suggest this 
impacted Mr B.
I can see that Mr B did log on to his Internet banking in March 2018. And I think it is 
reasonable to suggest at that point he would have been aware he had accrued charges and 
an account fees which left him with an overdrawn balance. NatWest has provided evidence 
to suggest that a default notice was sent on 20 February 2018 and a formal demand on    20 
May 2018. So, I do think it is fair to say Mr B would have been aware he was overdrawn 
from March 2018 onwards. But it appears from his statements that he didn't clear the 
balance until 16 June 2018. So while I appreciate Mr B felt he shouldn't have to repay the 
fees and charges (as he wasnt aware they existed) I do think, upon realising the situation he 
could have mitigated his own losses by repaying the balance sooner, which could have 
prevented the default being applied. However, I am pleased to see that NatWest has now 
removed the default from Mr Bs credit file and added an entry to say the balance had been 
settled and refunded the charges.
Mr B feels he should be compensated £50,000 for the fact NatWest recorded adverse 
information on his credit file, as he says this stopped him obtaining a mortgage and opening 
a business account. As a result, he says he had to take out a loan. But our investigator on 
several occasions asked Mr B to provide evidence of the broker fee, evidence of what the 
loan was for, documentation to show the request to open a business bank account was 
declined, evidence to show suppliers wouldn't allow Mr B to make purchases and evidence 
to show the mortgage was declined solely due to the information recorded by NatWest.   
Mr B did provide an email from his broker which stated a soft footprint with a lender was 
completed and declined due to Mr Bs credit score and he did demonstrate he took out a 
loan. But he said it would cause him a great degree of inconvenience to provide any other 
evidence she had requested. However, without that evidence I cant reasonably hold 
NatWest solely responsible for the events that occurred. And I have considered when Mr B 
would have been aware of the outstanding balance and his actions following this. 
So with that in mind, I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay Mr £100 for the 
trouble and upset it caused by not sending statements and notice of charges due to be 
applied. As NatWest has removed the default and reimbursed Mr B for the charges it 
applied, I wont be asking it to do anything more.Putting things right
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset it has 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman