DRN-2479382
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) administered his 
current account.
What happened
Mr W holds a current account with Nationwide. In December 2019 he telephoned Nationwide 
to complete a direct debit indemnity. During the call Mr W was clear that he didnt want the 
direct debit to be cancelled. But, despite his instructions, Nationwide did cancel Mr Ws direct 
debit.
 
As a result, Mr W incurred charges from the company he was supposed to pay. He also had 
to spend time on the phone to sort things out. So he complained to Nationwide.
 
Nationwide wrote to Mr W in January 2020. It acknowledged its mistake, apologised, and 
paid Mr W £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused. But 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service.
 
An investigator here considered Mr Ws complaint. He thought Nationwide should increase 
its offer of compensation to £50 in total and, in addition, that it should also reimburse Mr W a 
further £20 specifically for the charges he had incurred. Nationwide agreed with the 
investigators recommendation. But Mr W disagreed, he said he didnt accept the offer and 
was seeking more compensation.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Mr W was clear that he didnt want Nationwide to cancel his direct 
debit. But it did, so I dont think its in dispute that Nationwide made a mistake.
 
In response to the investigator Mr W said hes seeking further compensation. So I think its 
important for me to explain here that our role isnt to punish a business for its mistakes, and 
our awards arent meant to act like a fine. Instead, theyre to compensate for the impact a 
business actions have had on a complainant.
 
Mr W has provided evidence to show he incurred charges because Nationwide cancelled his 
direct debit. He also said he had to spend time on the phone to sort things out. So Im 
satisfied Nationwides mistake did have an impact on Mr W.
 
Nationwide has apologised and already paid Mr W £25 compensation. Further, Nationwide 
has now offered to reimburse Mr W £20 for the charges he incurred and pay him an 
additional £25 compensation. And in the overall circumstances of what happened, while I 
dont doubt the matter wouldve been frustrating for him, I think Nationwides offer ensures 
Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss and does enough to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered. So, on that basis, Im satisfied its a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require Nationwide Building Society to 
pay Mr W £20 for the charges he incurred, and a further £25 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman