DRN-2094046
The complaint
Mr H complains that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages overcharged him 
when he redeemed his mortgage. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr H had two accounts with a lender. These accounts were taken over by Topaz. In 
2019, Mr H redeemed the accounts and was charged a sum of about £1,500 as conversion 
interest which Mr H says he was unaware of. It appears that in June 2005, the lender 
changed the way it allocated payments on Mr Hs accounts from being payments in arrears 
to payments in advance. Unaware of this, Mr H continued to make the usual monthly 
payments but there now was a gap. His payment in June 2005 had been accounted for as a 
payment in arrears for the month of May 2005 whereas his payment in July 2015 was a 
payment in advance for July 2005. So, no payment was allocated for June 2005.
The missing payments on the two accounts were carried forward and called conversion 
interest and charged to Mr H when he redeemed the account. Mr H complained. Topaz 
upheld the complaint as in 2005, no one contacted Mr H to tell them about the change, but it 
offered no compensation. Topaz says that from 2009 the annual mortgage statements 
included a reference to the interest adjustment and from 2012 an FAQ document included 
an explanation of the interest adjustment. Our investigator also recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld but was of the view that Topaz should pay compensation of 
£200. Topaz disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint because the lender internally changed how it dealt with the payments 
from Mr H. But it didnt tell Mr H at the time and not until several years later. I was interested 
in how this was accounted for in the earlier annual mortgage statements but unfortunately 
these werent available. But I assume that since conversion interest wasnt referred to until 
the 2009 annual statements - and then apparently without explanation - that there was no 
indication to Mr H that there would be an extra month due when he redeemed the mortgage. 
From Mr Hs point of view nothing had changed as he continued to make the monthly 
payments on time as he had always done and was shocked to find that, in fact, he had 
missed one month.
Everyone now agrees that the lender should have told Mr H about this in 2005. But Topaz 
says that Mr H shouldnt have been shocked about it because it had put the reference to the 
interest adjustment in the annual mortgage statement since 2009 together with a FAQ since 
2012 and that it would expect Mr H to have read it. My view is that the lender had a number 
of more direct ways it could have told Mr H about it.  Firstly, it should have told Mr H at the 
start. But secondly, as Mr H was directly affected by it, it could have written to him a 
personalised letter and explanation about it. Mr H seems to have been a person who paid 
his account punctually and on time. I expect when reading his annual mortgage statement, 
he may not have been looking for the unexpected and clearly missed it. There seems to 
have been no separate attempt to draw his attention to it or to stress its relevancy to him or 
indeed to invite him to repay it sooner if he wished. Mr H seems to have been genuinely 
shocked when told about it. Although there is no evidence of financial detriment, for the 
reasons set out above my view is that in in this particular case Mr M should get 
compensated for the trouble and upset, he experienced. So, I agree with our investigator 
that this complaint should be upheld and an award of £200 is fair.   
Putting things right
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages should pay Mr H £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Rosinca Mortgages to pay Mr H £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman