DRN-2102471
The complaint
Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H bought the policy in 1997, in connection with a store card shed taken out in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
The policy was sold over the phone, some time after Mrs H had taken out her store 
card. So I think Mrs H wouldve realised that buying the policy wasnt a condition of 
getting the card. Overall, Ive seen nothing to suggest that AXA didnt make Mrs H 
aware the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means that Mrs H had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs H would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Mrs H has said she was working twelve hours a week when she took out the policy, so she 
doesnt consider she was eligible for it. She hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
this, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed, and that her former 
employer is no longer trading.
Ive noted everything Mrs H has said, and also considered the information shes provided to 
this service and AXA during her complaint. I can see that in her original submission to this 
service Mrs H told us she was employed when the policy was sold, but she didnt tick the 
box to say that she was working fewer than sixteen hours a week. She also mentioned that 
her recollection of the circumstances at the time of sale were unclear, due to the amount of 
time thats passed.
It seems Mrs H also spoke to AXA during the course of her complaint, but its records dont 
suggest she mentioned she was working part-time when the policy was sold.
Overall, from what Ive seen, on balance I dont think I can safely say that Mrs H didnt 
satisfy the policys eligibility conditions when the policy was sold. So Im not persuaded that 
I should uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman