DRN-3926041
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a legal expenses insurance policy he took out with Esure Services
Limited.
Mr B says the policy was mis-sold because he would never have been able to use it.
What happened
In late January 2019 Mr B bought a legal expenses insurance policy alongside his home
insurance. When he later came to claim on that policy the insurer turned it down because it
said the event Mr B was claiming for took place before the insurance started and this wasnt
something the policy would cover.
Mr B was unhappy that he was sold a policy he couldnt claim on. He feels he should have
been told he wouldnt have been covered for the claim he intended to make and if Esure had
done this he wouldve gone to another insurance provider for cover or made alternative
arrangements.
Esure considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded that theyd provided him with enough
information to decide whether to take out the cover when they sold it to him. So, they didnt
agree the policy had been mis-sold. They did however arrange to refund the premium paid
for the policy as a gesture of goodwill and sent this to his account directly.
Mr B remained unhappy. He wanted his legal expenses insurance claim to be covered and
felt the position Esure had taken was unfair. An investigator considered things and didnt
uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said that Esure had given Mr B enough information about the
insurance which was sent to him after the policy was sold. He also said that Esure isnt
responsible for the claims decision the insurer of the policy made and if we thought the
policy had been mis-sold, wed likely direct a refund of premiums which Esure has provided
in any case. As such he didnt think Esure needed to do anything more.
Mr B doesnt agree. In particular, he says the information Esure sent him about the policy
came after the sale, which is unfair. Because of this the matter was referred to me to
determine.
In January 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint but for slightly different reasons to
those reached by the investigator.
Esure have told us the policy was sold online on a non-advised basis. That means they had
a duty to provide Mr B with clear, fair and not misleading information about the insurance to
allow him to decide whether to take it out. In this case the policy term Mr B takes exception
to relates to the circumstances in which cover is provided, which are:
The Insured Event takes place in the Period of Insurance and within the Territorial Limits
Insured Event is defined as The event of the first of a series of events which may lead to a
claim under this insurance. Only one Insured Event shall be deemed to have arisen from all
causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or time.
I dont know what information Mr B was given about this term before he agreed to take the
insurance out. I havent seen a copy of the online screen shots Mr B would have been
presented with and whether he wouldve had to click through screens that contained this
information. I have however been provided with copies of the product information document
which sets out the key policy exclusions along with the policy terms. As I understand it, these
items were sent to Mr B after he agreed to take the insurance out, so theyre of little value.
And I agree with Mr B that his decision to take out the insurance wouldve been based on the
information he was given before this and not based on what he was sent after.
I dont however need to determine this issue. To conclude he was mis-sold the insurance, I
also need to be satisfied that Mr B suffered a detriment by buying the cover that he did and
that he wouldve done something differently if hed been provided with details of this term
before agreeing to take it out.
Ive issued a separate decision setting out that I think the insurer of the legal expenses
insurance policy was entitled to turn down the claim Mr B was making. Thats because the
first in the series of events that gave rise to a claim happened before the insurance was in
place- and in this case some significant time before Mr B took out cover. I also made the
point in that decision that, generally, you take out insurance cover for something which may
or may not happen in the future. So, it isnt unfair, in principle, for a legal expenses insurer to
exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. And I said there are
special policies available which are designed to cover such disputes, but this isnt one of
them.
What that means in practice is that virtually all before the event legal expenses insurance
policies wont cover things that have happened before the insurance was in place. So even if
Mr B thought he wouldve gone elsewhere and bought a policy that wouldve covered him
had he been aware of this term, I think its very unlikely he would have found one.
Like Ive said, there are special policies available that do cover claims that are known to
policyholders. These are called after the event insurance policies. Mr B has said that when
he took out this cover, he wasnt aware of the significance of his former employers actions,
such that he wouldve needed to make a claim. So, I dont think he wouldve looked to
purchase an after the event insurance policy at that time. These are usually only purchased
when litigation is about to commence and in January 2019, that wasnt the case. So, all in
all, even if Mr B thought he wouldve done something differently the most likely action he
would have took was to go elsewhere for another before the event policy. And for the
reasons Ive mentioned, I dont think he wouldve found one.
Whilst Esure dont accept theyve done anything wrong, they have provided Mr B with a
refund of the policy premium as a gesture of goodwill. So, if Mr B wouldve decided not to
take out the policy at all, hes now in the same position he wouldve been in by not having
paid the policy premium.
I dont know whether the return of the premium is a refund of the premium such that theres
now no cover in place for that policy period or that it is simply representative of the policy
premium and has no bearing on the contract of insurance. If Esure were looking to revoke
the insurance contract entirely in returning this sum to Mr B then Id have expected them to
be explicit about this. Given theyve not said anything about revoking cover when refundingthe sum they have, I think that Mr B can still make a valid claim on this policy at a later date,
subject to the policy terms and conditions. But if he does so Esure would be entitled to
deduct the value of the refunded premium from that claim.
Finally, Mr B has said that he feels he could never have used the cover hed taken out with
Esure. I dont agree. The policy covers counselling services and other claims including
contract disputes, personal injury, property protection. So, I think that it was still of benefit to
Mr B, whether or not he envisaged having those sorts of claims.
I asked both parties whether they had any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider in response to my provisional decision. Esure asked for further time to respond, 
which the investigator agreed to, but they didnt respond within the time frame set down. Mr 
B provided a response. He didnt accept my findings. Much of his response relates to my 
findings on another complaint I issued a final decision on. I wont repeat those here. The 
points hes made in relation to my provisional decision in respect of this complaint are mostly 
the same as those he initially brought to this Service. For the sake of completeness, they 
can be summarised as follows:
He shouldnt have been sold a policy that would never pay out;
He didnt buy the insurance with the intention of claiming on it. He only made a claim on 
the policy after a local solicitor directed him to;
He wasnt told about all the services the legal expenses insurance cover offers so if hed 
known it provided counselling services, he might have used this sooner;
Esures refund of the policy premium amounts to an admission of guilt. He didnt accept 
the refund because he wanted the cover he was assured he would receive if he needed 
it;
If he was incapable of finding cover for his situation then Esure should never have sold 
him a policy like this, yet they accepted his custom for three years after they sold him the 
initial policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld for the same 
reasons set out within my provisional decision.
I realise Mr B doesnt agree that the claim he wished to pursue under his legal expenses 
insurance policy was pre-existing. But Ive already determined in a separate decision that the 
events that gave rise to the claim were. Because of this its very unlikely hed find a before 
the event insurance policy that would cover the dispute he wanted to claim for.
For the reasons I set out within my provisional decision, thats not something that Esure is 
responsible for. Even if Esure didnt give Mr B any information about this, I dont think he 
suffered any detriment. Thats because its unlikely he wouldve done something different 
and sought cover elsewhere. And as I said, Esure offered to refund the policy premium to Mr 
B (whether he accepted that sum or not) so even if hed have chosen not to buy insurance at 
all, hed have been in the same position. The fact that he says he renewed the policy for 
three years running however suggests to me that he did want the cover. And given that he 
felt the dispute for which he was claiming for wasnt pre-existing, he must have seen value in 
the cover for other potential problems that made him want to keep taking it out.
For clarity, I dont think it was Esures responsibility to ensure the policy was one that would 
cover him for every eventuality. Esure sold it on a non-advised basis, so it was up to Mr B to ensure it was suitable for his needs. Esure only needed to give Mr B enough information to 
decide whether to take the cover. As Ive said, even if they didnt, I dont think he suffered 
any detriment.
I dont agree that the refund of the policy premium amounts to an admission of guilt. There 
are a variety of reasons why a business might offer a policyholder a refund on their policy 
premium. In this case it might well have been with a view to bringing an end to Mr Bs 
complaint. And although Mr B feels that Esure failed to explain what his policy did cover, for 
the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think that means his mis-sale complaint succeeds. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Esure Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman