DRN-3089905
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a personal loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss W took out the PPI in 1992 at the same time as applying for the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss W say she was told that she had to take out the PPI if she wanted the loan to be 
agreed.
Miss W has provided a copy of the credit agreement and I can see that a yes box has been 
ticked to select PPI. From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the PPI was 
usually presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Miss W has said, but Ive also considered how long 
ago the sale took place. I have no doubt that Miss W has provided her genuine recollection 
of events. However, it would not be surprising if Miss Ws memory of an event that took 
place in 1992 has faded somewhat. 
Miss W has said that the disparity in hers and Lloyds negotiating positions should be 
considered as a factor. As Ive said, we know that Lloyds normal practice at that time was to 
make it clear that people could borrow without taking out associated PPI. Miss W could have 
gone elsewhere for her loan if she had wanted to.
On balance, Im unable to conclude that Miss W wasnt given a choice about buying PPI. 
Overall, I consider that Miss W probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even if she no longer remember doing so. 
 
Lloyds needed to ensure that the policy met Miss Ws needs. From what I know of Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Miss W would have received some sick pay from her job. However, the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Miss W would have 
received full pay for. Miss W has also said that she had some savings at the time. But the 
policy would have allowed her to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at 
what would have been a difficult time. 
Miss W would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the policy had been 
cancelled early. This can be an issue where a customer might pay the loan off early  for 
example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was 
likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable for Miss W.
The cost disclosure could have been better. The loan agreement does detail the cost of the 
initial premium as £50 and the monthly cost as £4.65. However, it doesnt outline how much 
interest the premium would accrue if the loan ran to term and therefore the total cost of the 
insurance.
The question I need to ask is whether a clearer presentation of the costs would have made a 
difference to Miss Ws decision to take out the cover. In this case I am not persuaded that 
Miss W would have made a different decision. The interest would have been less than £6. 
Given that Miss W would have known from the credit agreement that the single premium 
cost was £50 and the monthly cost of the policy was £4.65, I am not persuaded her decision 
to proceed would have been any different had that information been broken down further to 
include the amount of interest.
Its possible that Lloyds could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss W wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been excluded 
under the policy.
As I consider that Miss W had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no worse off 
as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing Lloyds needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman