DRN-4184003
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont reimburse money she lost 
to two investment scams.
Miss D is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
Miss D was looking online for investment trading opportunities. In April 2021, she made six 
payments totalling £16,582.14 using her Barclays debit card in connection with two 
investment opportunities. Miss D says both investments turned out to be a scam. 
Investment 1
Miss D checked out Trustpilot reviews for a broker C and filled out an online enquiry form 
after seeing lots of positive reviews. She received a call from a representative who claimed 
that C worked with Barclays. Miss D started with a small initial deposit and continued to 
invest under her account managers instructions after seeing the profits her trades had 
made. These subsequent deposits first went to cryptocurrency exchanges, where the funds 
were converted into cryptocurrency before Miss D forwarded them on to her trading account 
with C. She states her deposits were also topped up by C and she was able to make a 
withdrawal of £253.34. 
Miss D realised shed been scammed when she tried making a subsequent withdrawal for a 
much larger amount but was told she needed to set up a temporary bank account for her 
profits to be paid, and that shed need to pay 10% of her profits.
Investment 2
Around the same time, Miss D engaged with another broker F who she says she came 
across via posts on a social media platform. Miss D says she did this in case anything went 
wrong with her dealings with C. She started with a small initial deposit and says she was 
enticed into making a further deposit after seeing the profits shed already made and being 
told shed receive a higher return. Just like with the other investment, the money was first 
sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, where it was converted into cryptocurrency 
which Miss D then forwarded on to her trading account with F. 
When the returns promised didnt end up in her trading account, and her account manager 
started pressuring her into depositing more funds, Miss D realised shed fallen victim to 
another scam. 
The following transactions are relevant to this complaint 
Date Debit/
CreditType Amount Notes
9 April Debit Card payment to Onlinepayment £223.26 Investment 1
12 April Debit Card payment to Moonpay £368.50 Investment 2
13 April Debit Card payment to Moonpay £2,092.19 Investment 2
14 April Debit Card payment to Buy Digital Asset £4,335.00 Investment 1
14 April Debit Card payment to Binance £4,335.00 Investment 1
14 April Debit Card payment to Moonpay £5,228.19 Investment 2
16 April Credit Withdrawal from Investment 1 £253.34
13 May Credit Temporary chargeback credit £368.50
13 May Credit Temporary chargeback credit £2,092.19
13 May Credit Temporary chargeback credit £4,335.00
13 May Credit Temporary chargeback credit £5,228.19
3 June Credit Temporary chargeback credit £223.26
21 July Debit Chargeback reversal £380.50 £12.04 extra
21 July Debit Chargeback reversal £2,610.56 £68.37 extra
21 July Debit Chargeback reversal £5,399.01 £170.82 extra
On being notified of the matter, Barclays attempted a chargeback. Some of the payments 
were successfully defended by the cryptocurrency exchange and the credits Barclays had 
temporarily applied were reversed (albeit higher amounts). 
Barclays refused to refund any of the disputed transactions and Miss D referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it either. Miss D disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision last month and explained why I intended reaching a different 
outcome to the investigator. 
I invited both parties to provide further comments for my consideration. Both Barclays and 
Miss D accepted my provisional findings. What follows below is my provisional decision 
made final.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant was in fact scammed, 
rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is important because 
payment service providers only have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where payments are made to a 
legitimate investment. 
In this case, very little is known about C and F. Apart from Miss Ds testimony, which Ive 
carefully considered, we havent been provided with any documentary evidence (such as 
emails, screenshots, etc.) of her dealings with either firm. Ive done my own research and 
neither firm appears to have an active website or an online presence. Also, there arent any 
warnings published on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, or on the Investor 
Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). But the limited information Ive been able to find online is negative  there are reports in the 
public domain, ranging from C and F being unregulated to operating a scam. This hearsay is 
not in itself sufficient evidence of fraud. But, considered in conjunction with what Miss D has 
said, it may fairly and reasonably be regarded as circumstantial evidence that helps build an 
overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others. 
Having carefully considered the available information, it is my judgement that C and F 
werent legitimate traders. They were likely operating illegally with dishonest intentions.
Recovery
While I think that C and F were likely operating a scam, the chargeback scheme rules dont 
automatically entitle Miss D to a refund based on these circumstances. The chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between a merchant 
and a card issuer (on behalf of the cardholder). The card scheme operator  Visa in this 
case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the 
card issuer. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed.
Miss D says her dealings were with C and F. But she didnt make the debit card payments to 
those firms; they went to different cryptocurrency exchanges. This is important because 
Barclays was only able to chargeback against the merchant she paid i.e., the cryptocurrency 
exchange, not another party. The service provided by the exchange would be to convert 
Miss Ds payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant she made the payments to 
did provide the service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency. 
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt 
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants she paid. 
That means that it wouldnt have been unreasonable if Barclays hadnt attempted 
chargebacks on any of the disputed transactions; there was little prospect of success. That 
said, I can see that Barclays did attempt to chargeback all the transactions except for the 
one to Buy Digital Asset (£4,335). It doesnt appear that it heard back from Onlinepayment 
(£223.26) or Binance (£4,335), so the temporary credits for those transactions have 
remained on Miss Ds account. Moonpay defended the chargeback for its transactions 
(£368.50, £2,092.19, and £5,228.19) on the basis that the service was provided, and so the 
temporary credits were reversed. But the amounts that Barclays debited were higher than 
the original transaction amounts (see above table). 
In recent correspondence, Barclays has said that this is a known Claim Issue. Ive looked 
through the available account statements and unless Ive missed something, I cant see that 
Barclays has refunded the additional amount that was taken from Miss Ds account at the 
time of reversing the temporary credit. I would expect Barclays to ensure that it doesnt debit 
an amount greater than the credit it temporarily applied while awaiting the outcome of the 
chargeback. Otherwise, Miss D has suffered further financial loss. 
If Barclays can evidence that its refunded this additional £251.23 it took from Miss Ds 
account, then it doesnt need to do anything further in relation to the chargebacks. 
Otherwise, I would expect it to refund that amount along with simple interest at 8% per year, 
payable from when it reversed the credits to the date of settlement.
Duty of CareNotwithstanding the recovery efforts, Ive considered whether Barclays could have done 
more to prevent Miss D from falling victim to the scams in the first instance, i.e., when she 
authorised the transactions.
The transactions in dispute were authorised by Miss D using her legitimate security 
credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, shes considered liable for the loss (even if 
she was duped) unless theres evidence that Barclays could and should reasonably have 
done more to protect her against the risk of fraud and scams and that this would have made 
a difference to her decision-making. 
Ive considered that the disputed payments were sent to legitimate crypto platforms. I accept 
that buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. But both the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and Action Fraud had warned of crypto exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. 
And in May 2019, Action Fraud published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the 
past year. This type of insight is something that regulated businesses, including Barclays, 
ought to take notice of. 
So, even though Miss D was transferring funds to a crypto account in her name, Barclays 
ought to have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. While the 
transfers were made to her own wallet, scams involving transfers to crypto accounts were 
well known to banks by this time and I therefore think that where payments were also out of 
character, potential losses were foreseeable to the originating bank.
Ive considered Miss Ds account activity in the year leading up to the disputed transactions 
to establish whether the transactions ought to have appeared so unusual or uncharacteristic 
that Barclays should have paused them pending further enquiries. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded that the individual disputed amounts when considered in isolation were that 
unusual or suspicious such that I think Barclays ought to have intervened. 
But Miss D made three large-value transactions on 14 April - all to cryptocurrency 
exchanges. While previous account activity does show individual large-value transactions  
up to £10,000  given the increased frequency of transactions on 14 April, I think Barclays 
ought to have been concerned that there was a possibility that something wasnt right. 
Specifically, the third transaction that day  £5,228.19  ought to have triggered the banks 
fraud detection systems. I consider that it would have been reasonable for Barclays to have 
properly questioned Miss D before executing her authorised instruction.
Even if she had been sending money to a legitimate crypto platform, it didnt follow that 
Miss Ds money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. 
In April 2021, I think Barclays had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of 
how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud. Including, 
that the customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and moves it on to the fraudster under 
the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet or account.
Had Barclays done more and warned Miss D about cryptocurrency scams, Ive no reason to 
doubt that she would have explained the true purpose of her payment and how she came to 
know about the investment opportunity. I cant see that Miss D had been given a reason to 
think she had to hide this information from her bank. Neither had she been coached to tell 
them something different. 
Im satisfied that Miss D would have looked further into the investment opportunity in 
general, including whether F  this payment was in relation to the second scam  was 
regulated here in the UK or abroad. She could have discovered that it wasnt. Indeed, its 
likely that Miss D would have come across the various warnings about cryptocurrency scams 
following an intervention from Barclays.Im persuaded that Miss D would have paid attention to warnings from her trusted bank, and 
that a meaningful intervention would likely have exposed the scam. It follows that I also think 
its more likely than not that the intervention would have caused her to stop from going 
ahead with that third payment on 14 April, thereby limiting her financial loss. Therefore, 
although I dont think Barclays could have prevented the earlier transactions from going 
ahead, I find that it is liable for the loss Miss Ds suffered as a result of the last disputed 
transaction.
Ive also carefully thought about whether Miss D is partly to blame for what happened. She 
doesnt appear to have carried out sufficient independent research into F to reassure herself 
that the opportunity as presented to her was genuine. 
Whats more, I can see that in the months leading up to the payments, Miss D had made 
more than a dozen transactions to cryptocurrency exchanges. And payments were also 
made to multiple investment trading firms. I cant see that Miss D has raised any concerns 
about those payments at any point. As such, its reasonable to assume that she had some 
awareness of the workings of cryptocurrency exchanges and trading in general. 
Having given this a lot of thought, I do think that Miss D ought to bear shared responsibility 
for her losses and that compensation  refund of the last payment  should be reduced by 
50%. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, Barclays Bank UK PLC needs to 
If it hasnt already done so, refund the additional £251.23 it took from Miss Ds 
account when reversing the temporary credits which it applied while awaiting the 
chargeback outcome. If the refund is still outstanding, then it needs to add simple 
interest at 8% per year, payable from when it reversed the credits to the date of 
settlement.
Refund the last debit card payment made on 14 April 2021 (see table above) which 
was made in relation to the second scam, making a 50% deduction for contributory 
negligence. I make no interest award in this instance as from what Ive seen so far, 
Miss D was interested in cryptocurrency investment and so its reasonable to assume 
she would have traded on a genuine platform but for the scam. Given the volatility 
with these types of investments, theres no guarantee that Miss D would have made 
a return.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to put things right for Miss D as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman