DRN-4114849
The complaint
Mr M complains that an error by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited when setting up his
annuity caused an underpayment of income tax of £2,242, which hes subsequently had to
repay.
What happened
I issued my second provisional decision on this complaint on 10 March 2023. The 
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of that decision below, 
and it forms part of this final decision.
Copy
Mr Ms complaint was initially considered by one of our investigators. She sent her
assessment of the complaint to both parties in November 2021. She said, in brief, that in
July 2020 Mr M had received a letter from HMRC (HM Revenue & Customs) alerting him
that hed paid too little tax. The letter said he owed it £2,242.
The investigator said she understood that when Aviva set up the annuity part of its process
was to declare this as new income to HMRC. She said this was done electronically via the
PAYE (Pay As You Earn) system. It included a starter declaration which had three options 
A, B and C.
The investigator said using option B indicated that the annuity income was the only income
for the member for that tax year. This information was sent through to HMRC who used it to
provide tax codes back to Aviva.
HMRC had said once it received a declaration where option B was chosen its system
P.Ceases (potentially ceased) any other primary income that was present  it effectively
assumed it was ending. However Mr M was still doing work for his employer. Ultimately, the
upshot was the income from Aviva was allocated the full personal income tax allowance.
However Mr Ms income from his employer was also being taxed on his old tax code.
Mr M arranged other annuities with other providers. HMRC provided a number of different
tax codes to Aviva over the following months. But in July 2020 Mr M received a letter from
HMRC saying that he owed it £2,242 in tax. HMRC said it would adjust Mr Ms tax
code so the outstanding tax would be repaid over a twelve-month period.
Aviva told the investigator that it had agreed its current process with HMRC in 2014. It said 
the starter declaration was filled in electronically by its system and option B was selected
automatically on every annuity. It said the reason for this was that Aviva didnt have any
information about the annuitants employment status and wouldnt be able to provide
accurate income details to HMRC. As such, it said option B was always submitted by default.
In the circumstances, the investigator thought Aviva had followed its process correctly.
It hadnt got information about Mr Ms employment which would have allowed it to provide
more information to HMRC. And it had no way of knowing whether Mr M had any other
employment(s) and wasnt aware of the intricacies of HMRCs systems. So the investigator
didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly or its actions constituted an error on its part.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings, and his complaint was passed to me to
consider.
In my provisional decision I said, in summary, that Aviva had accepted that it had input B in
the electronic starter declaration that was forwarded to HMRC. I said my understanding was
that this effectively indicated that the annuity income was the only income for Mr M for that
tax year. I also understood that option C indicated that there was other employment/income
for that tax year.
Aviva had said that itd agreed to use B as a default for all its annuitants with HMRC in 2014.
We had asked it to provide evidence of this agreement but it hadnt been able to do so.
I said on the one hand, I thought if HMRC had told/advised Aviva to use that option as a
default, it was reasonable for it to follow that advice  as clearly HMRC were in the best
position to know how its own systems worked/any implications for annuitants in doing so.
But I said on the other, I thought we needed some evidence of that agreement with HMRC
as such an agreement wasnt consistent with other evidence on file.
In its letter to Mr M dated 14 September 2020 HMRC had said:
The reason that your tax codes were not allocated correctly, was because when you started
receiving your pension from Aviva Annuity UK Limited (AR) during the 2018-19 tax year, it
was submitted to us with a starter declaration of B, which should only be ticked if that
income is now your only income. In your case, this was not correct as you were also
receiving employment income from [name of employer].
In Avivas letter to Mr Ms MP it said:
We have reviewed the file and can confirm, the code sent wasn't incorrect. The HMRC
expect us to use the code that best fits the situation, and this is our usual response for cases
such as this.
It might be helpful to explain that we do not have sight of our customer's other incomes. I
can see that the HMRC does
I said on the face of it, I thought using option B wasnt the code that best fits the situation. I
said using it as a default was always likely to misrepresent the position for those annuitants
who had other sources of income (at least for a period of time anyway). And having other
sources of income wouldnt be uncommon. I said Option C would appear to have been the
logical and appropriate code given it was the best fit for the situation in the circumstances.
Aviva had said it wasnt aware of Mr Ms other sources of income as it wasnt information
that Aviva asked for. However I said I didnt think it would have been overly burdensome for
Aviva to have obtained that information to enable it to provide the most appropriate code for
the starter declaration even without further details of his exact income.
So I said if Aviva couldnt provide any evidence of its agreement with HMRC to default to
option B or that this is what HMRC had instructed it to do, I was minded to uphold Mr Ms
complaint.
I went on to set out what I thought was fair compensation, which was to make an award toMr M for the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter (not repayment of tax which
was always due).
I asked Mr M and Aviva to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to
consider.
Aviva referred me back to HMRC guidance which it had previously provided copied from
HMRCs website- PAYE63040 - Employment maintenance: filing online: employers:
automatic record update for new pensioners - HMRC internal manual - GOV.UK
(www.gov.uk).
This said:
General
This process does not apply to the State Retirement Pension. It covers pensions paid by
insurance companies and former employers.
A non RTI employer sends P46(Pen) notifications online and these take the place of paper
forms P46, P45 Part 3 or P160.
An RTI employer sends notification of a pension employment commencing on their
employees Full Payment Submission (FPS) by completing start date, starting declaration B
and an annual pension amount.
Aviva said when it set up the annuity it wrote to Mr M (on 12 November 2019) to explain it
would be taxed using the tax code 1250L Month 1 under PAYE and the income Mr M was
receiving from it would be reported to HMRC which would update his tax code. It provided a
copy of its letter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is conflicting, inconsistent, or unclear, I am bound to make a decision on
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is the more likely on the balance of the
evidence that is available. That is the case here, and in my provisional decision I thought
that given Aviva couldnt provide any evidence of its agreement with HMRC to always use
Option B that, on the balance of the evidence, Aviva hadnt provided the most appropriate
tax code.
The HMRC guidance - PAYE63040  referred to  completing start date, starting
declaration B and an annual pension amount. It wasnt clear to me whether starting
declaration B referred to another form (called starting declaration B), or inputting Option B
into the starting declaration form.
We asked some other annuity providers for details of their procedures in reporting new
annuity payments to HMRC. One of those providers said that HMRC had instructed it to
always use Option B when setting up a new annuity  regardless of any other income.
Other providers said they reported the new income and used an emergency tax code, as
they didnt know what other income an annuitant received. And then HMRC assessed the
individuals overall income position, including other sources of income, and then issued a
new tax code.I realise that Mr M has said he didnt have the same problem with the tax when he set up
another annuity with a different provider. But different annuity providers may have different
procedures. What I need to consider here is whether Aviva did something wrong. In my
provisional decision I said I thought if HMRC had told/advised Aviva to use Option B as a
default, it was reasonable for it to follow that advice  as clearly HMRC were in the best
position to know how its own systems worked/any implications for annuitants in doing so.
Although Aviva itself cant provide evidence of such an instruction from HMRC, the other
annuity provider saying it was given the same instruction is clearly consistent with what
Aviva said it was told to do. So in the circumstances I think it is, on balance, more likely than
not that HMRC did instruct Aviva to use Option B, irrespective of the annuitants particular
circumstances.
I realise my findings will be very disappointing to Mr M given what I said in my first
provisional decision. However, having reconsidered all the circumstances in light of the
additional information obtained, I think it is more likely than not that Aviva was instructed by
HMRC to use Option B as a default. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to follow that
instruction, and therefore I dont think its fair or reasonable to find that it did anything wrong.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, my revised provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I asked Mr M and Aviva to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr M didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided further arguments that I have 
considered in making my final decision below.
Aviva didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision making a number of points. Ive taken them all 
into account in making this final decision, but only specifically responded where I think its 
appropriate to do so. 
Aviva hasnt been given several months to find evidence of its agreement. Much of that time 
has been taken up in our own research of the matter and trying to obtain information from 
HMRC and other annuity providers. As I said in my first provisional decision, on the face it, 
Option B wasnt the code that best fit the situation. And given that Aviva couldnt provide any 
supporting evidence of its agreement with HMRC, I thought, on balance, the weight of 
evidence favoured Mr M.
However, having made further enquiries, as I explained in my second provisional decision, 
another annuity provider  not linked to Aviva  also said that HMRC had told it to always 
use Option B. In my view that is significant. I think the chances of two separate organisations 
saying HMRC had told them to use an option that wouldnt appear to fit the circumstances 
are remote. I dont think its credible to discount it as being mere coincidence. In my view it is 
consistent with what Aviva told us and adds considerable weight to it. Its not material that 
the evidence wasnt provided by Aviva itself. Its also consistent with my understanding of 
PAYE63040 as set out above.As I said in my provisional decision, my role here is to decide if Aviva did something wrong. 
And as I also said, if HMRC had told/advised Aviva to use Option B as a default, it was 
reasonable for Aviva to follow that advice  as clearly HMRC are in the best
position to know how its own systems worked/any implications for annuitants in doing so.
Ive considered the correspondence that Mr M has referred to. Mr M has said the e-mail trail 
dated 31 December 2020 shows Aviva didnt know what it was doing and didnt initially know 
about the Starter Declaration or what each letter (for the options) meant. However this was 
an internal e-mail exchange between Avivas employees looking into the issue after Mr M 
raised it. Whilst it may show they didnt have a full understanding of the position at that time, 
they were still looking into it. Avivas records note that it subsequently explained its 
agreement with HMRC in a call to Mr Ms representative on 13 May 2021, and in a letter to 
Mr M dated 12 May 2021.
Mr M has also referred me back to the letter dated 14 September 2020 from HMRC which 
explained what had happened. But as I say, the fact Aviva used Option B, what Option B 
meant and the consequences of doing so (for Mr M and others) is not in dispute. Other 
providers may follow different procedures. But that doesnt mean what Aviva did was wrong. 
I also understand why Mr M thinks that Aviva should have done things differently as he has 
explained in responding to my second provisional decision. For the reasons I set out in my 
first provisional decision - which largely reflect what Mr M has said - I initially agreed with 
him.
However given the further evidence obtained, Im satisfied, on balance, that its more likely 
than not that HMRC did tell Aviva to us Option B as a default. So I think it follows that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to find that Aviva was wrong to do so in the circumstances of 
this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman