DRN-3235706
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Os complaint. 
     
summary and background to complaint
Mr O has said MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card in 2007.
MBNA didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr O had referred the complaint to us too late.
But MBNA has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr Os PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr O about the high level 
of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Os complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought MBNAs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr Os representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
Mr O asked for an ombudsmans decision  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
MBNA sent a final response to Mr O in January 2013 in response to a complaint he had 
raised about the policy. The response refers to the complaint as a PPI complaint and to a 
questionnaire MBNA had requested in connection with this. The letter also says that MBNA 
would not refund the premiums paid  so it looks like redress of that kind was what was 
being requested or contemplated by Mr O at the time in connection with that complaint. 
MBNA has said the complaint was a complaint about the sale of the PPI policy. What I have, 
and what Ive discussed above, in my view tends to support this conclusion and Ive seen 
nothing that suggests anything else. So Im satisfied the complaint dealt with by MBNA in 
2013 was a complaint about the sale of the policy. The six months Mr O had to refer that 
complaint to us ran out in 2013. Mr O didnt refer his complaint to us within that timeframe. 
Mr O complained to MBNA in 2019, using representatives to do so, and he referred that 
complaint to us 2019. His complaint was again about the sale of the policy and all this was 
after his time to refer such a complaint to us ran out in 2013. So the complaint was referred 
to us out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. But having 
considered all that has been said by Mr O and his representative, Ive nothing to suggest 
exceptional circumstances apply here. For example, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr O 
couldnt have referred a complaint about the sale to us before the time to do so ran out in 
2013 - and Ive nothing to suggest the delay between then and his approach to us in 2019 
was due to an exceptional circumstance. So I dont think exceptional circumstances apply.
So Im sorry were unable to help Mr O with his complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided MBNA shouldve disclosed the commission it received and that 
MBNAs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Mr O about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Mr O was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr O because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Os representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mr O should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Mr O about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr O wouldnt have taken the 
policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr O in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing 
the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Os representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr O paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that MBNAs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. 
From what MBNA has sent us, it appears MBNA made this payment to Mr O in 2019  the 
offer was set out in a letter in August 2019 that said payment would be made within 28 days. If MBNA has already paid Mr O compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider that it needs 
to do anything further.
Im grateful to Mr O for his patience and for his courtesy throughout our consideration of 
these matters.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Os complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
MBNA Limited should pay Mr O an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) - if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman