DRN-3174698
The complaint
Mr M mainly complained that Allied Financial Services Ltd (AFS) gave him unsuitable advice 
to invest into an Investment Bond. Mr M faced tax bills on encashment which he said were 
entirely avoidable if he had invested differently.
What happened
Mr M took investment advice from AFS in February/March 2016. He told AFS that he 
wanted to try and get a better return on cash savings held on deposit with a view to 
securing a better retirement. It was recorded that Mr M had a cautious attitude to risk for 
this particular investment and that his investment objective was capital growth for the first 
2-5years and income after that. 
AFS recommended he invest £314,791.29 into an investment bond with a third party 
provider which it selected on the basis that it offered a better choice of cautious funds than 
other providers, its performance in the cautious investment market had been extremely 
competitive and it had an excellent reputation within the investment industry. 
In 2017, Mr M decided that he no longer wished to use the services of AFS as his adviser, 
and AFS had no further involvement with the actions Mr M took regarding the investment 
bond. Mr M encashed the bond in early 2020 after becoming concerned about its 
performance. This resulted in significant tax liabilities for Mr M and impacted on his personal 
tax allowance. 
Amongst other things, Mr M complained to AFS that he had no recollection of its adviser 
warning him about this. He said the bond hadnt been a suitable investment for him and that 
AFS had failed to properly consider that he was a higher rate taxpayer with no plans to 
retire. In particular, he was unhappy that AFS hadnt recommended that he invest in an ISA 
and an Investment Account given that it understood that tax efficiency was an important 
objective for Mr M. 
In its final response letter, AFS said: 
it was fully aware that Mr M was a higher rate taxpayer and that the timing of his 
retirement was undecided. AFS said this was why, exceptionally, it carried out 13 
reviews on Mr Ms behalf between December 2015 and April 2017, to enable him to 
keep the valuation of his pension portfolio under constant review as he had a target 
figure in mind. 
Mr M had told AFS he had used his annual ISA allowance already that year so taking 
out another ISA wasnt an option when he spoke with the adviser in 2016.
Mr Ms attitude towards volatility was paramount and he had wanted a smooth fund 
(one which reduced the impact of pricing fluctuations to provide more stable 
performance). For this reason, AFS had discounted unit trusts. 
AFS was very clear that Mr M had said this money was specifically to provide 
financial security in retirement. The bond was a very suitable investment for someone 
who is a higher rate taxpayer whilst working but likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement (which seemed to be the scenario Mr M thought likely).
The investment was never designed to be cashed in in its entirety whilst Mr M was 
still working.
Rather than providing an annual review AFS monitored the whole of Mr Ms portfolio 
on a very regular basis and was in constant contact with him to discuss market 
movements and the performance of his portfolio. It had already discounted its initial 
fee and provided full value for the fees charged so it wasnt prepared to pay any 
refund.
Mr M wasn't happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
bond had met Mr Ms agreed objectives and attitude to risk and that the tax implications 
were explained at the outset. Whilst our investigator said she appreciated that Mr M had told 
her it was never his intention to retire, this wasnt what was recorded at the time of the sale 
(which reflected only that he was uncertain about the exact retirement date). 
So our investigator didnt suggest that AFS needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr M didnt agree. 
In summary, he mainly said that:
details were incorrectly recorded by the adviser at the time. 
It was clear that he was a higher rate taxpayer with no retirement date in mind  and 
he would remain a higher rate taxpayer if he didnt retire  this made a bond 
unsuitable for him.
He was still in work and hadnt retired.
Any chance of him remaining a higher rate taxpayer should have prompted 
discussion of an Open Ended Investment Company (OEIC) instead - put simply, a 
different wrapper that would have been much more suitable for him.
At the very least, his tax position ought to have prompted a thorough discussion on 
which option was best, presenting pluses and minuses. Instead, AFS simply 
discounted all other options. 
An investment in an OEIC would have saved Mr M a substantial sum in tax and he 
could have utilised his ISA every year from the OEIC. 
He disputes he was given proper tax advice.   
AFS didnt take into account Mr Ms overall financial situation - had it done so, it 
would have realised this could impact on whether he is likely to be a long term high 
rate taxpayer and so affected the suitability of the advice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr M to recall word for word discussions that 
took place so long ago. So, in coming to my decision, I have relied not only on what Mr M 
has told me, but also the point of sale paperwork that AFS has provided.
Where facts arent agreed by the parties involved, I must base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. I must make reasonable assumptions 
where necessary. And I must be impartial. 
Theres only limited information about the details of Mr Ms monthly expenditure but he 
told the adviser that he had around £3,000 disposable income left each month out of net 
income of just over £5,000. He owned his own home and had no debts. He had pension 
provision in place and other investments as well as £5-£10,000 already put aside to 
cover any unforeseen emergencies. . Mr M explained that he was looking to invest 
around £318,000 which was at that time in a bank account. 
I think it's fair to say that Mr M was in a secure financial situation with ample surplus 
cash savings and in a position to absorb some potential loss without this impacting on 
his day to day living standards. 
So I think he was comfortably able to afford this £314,791.29 investment.
Ive gone onto think about whether the investment bond was suitable for Mr Ms needs.
He wanted to earn a greater return than his cash savings were earning on deposit. And he 
didnt require any income from his investment in the short to medium term. He was looking to 
invest for the medium term and for at least five years. Given these objectives, I think it was 
reasonable to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr M.
The Attitude to Risk Questionnaire AFS completed with Mr M shows there was some 
detailed discussion about the level of risk Mr M was prepared to take with his investment and 
I find Mr M was prepared to take a cautious approach. 
AFS recommended an Investment Bond to Mr M because it said it provided the potential for 
capital growth over the medium to long term and could also provide a regular income. It 
explained that the bond allowed Mr N the possibility of withdrawing 5% a year of the original 
sum over 20 years without giving rise to an immediate income tax charge. With careful 
planning, AFS told Mr M that it would be possible for him to defer and perhaps avoid any 
additional income tax on encashment.
AFS identified and advised Mr M to invest in a fund available under the bond that was 
rated as cautious. 
All in all, I find the investment bond reasonably reflected Mr Ms agreed objectives and risk 
attitude. 
I dont think AFS could reasonably have anticipated the impact of Covid 19 on the value of 
investments - the dramatic fall in the markets was unforeseen and its impact on fund values 
was significant. This seems to have prompted Mr M to encash his bond. And whilst 
I completely understand why he felt this was a way to stem his losses at the time, I must also 
keep in mind that it was entirely his choice to cash in the bond earlier than it seems he ever 
intended or suggested to AFS that he might want to. As Mr M was no longer using AFS as his adviser by this time, it was not asked to provide an 
opinion about whether it would be appropriate to cash the bond in. 
When recommending this investment bond to Mr M, the advisers report included the 
following:  
As this is an investment bond there may be an income tax liability on full or partial 
encashment of your investment. Top slicing procedures are done on any chargeable event 
and dependent upon you the marginal rate of tax you are paying at the time of encashment 
there may be a tax liability.
Currently you will be looking to take withdrawals when in retirement and potentially a basic 
rate taxpayer. When taking any withdrawals please contact me.
I find that AFS made it reasonably clear to Mr M that he faced potential tax consequences on 
encashment. And based on the circumstances in this case, my view is that it would not be 
fair to hold AFS responsible for the adverse tax consequences of Mr Ms actions when he 
decided, unexpectedly, to encash his bond. 
AFS has also said that if Mr M had asked its advice before encashing his bond when he did, 
it would have advised him to sit tight as the investment will recover (which is what 
happened). It said if he had needed some monies it would have advised on how much he 
could take in a tax efficient manner taking into consideration that he had not retired and was 
still working. And if he needed income, AFS would have informed him how much could be 
taken in a tax efficient manner. 
Overall, and based on Mr Ms circumstances as recorded at the time, I dont think AFS 
investment advice was unsuitable. I think it was suitable.  
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about everything Mr M has said, including 
his comments made in response to the investigators view. But nothing hes said affects my 
view on the outcome of this complaint. 
Although I think it was apparent that Mr M had no specific retirement date in mind, it does 
look as if the subject of retirement was regularly discussed and I think it was reasonable for 
AFS to have based its advice on an understanding that Mr M did intend to retire from full 
time paid work when the time was right. He had identified various criteria that would need to 
be met and his main reason for seeking advice seems to have been financial planning for his 
retirement. I appreciate Mr M had options open - he could chose at some point to crystallise 
some of his other investments and remain a higher rate taxpayer or he might ultimately 
decide not to retire. But I think he had ample opportunity over the course of three separate 
meetings with the adviser  to explore those options if he considered they were likely courses 
of action. As far as I can see, AFS properly based its advice on what Mr M told AFS about 
his plans and objectives at the time. 
Although Mr M now feels, with the benefit of hindsight, that an OEIC investment would 
have avoided some of the adverse tax consequences he faced, it doesnt mean the 
investment bond was unsuitable at the time. I think that Mr M understood and accepted the 
risk of the fund that AFS advised him to invest in. If he hadnt understood the risk or he 
wasnt prepared to take that sort of risk, he wouldve been aware that there were other 
safer options for his savings. The investment bond seems to me to have fitted his needs 
and savings goals and it matched his expectations of a potentially tax efficient way to plan 
for a future he envisaged at the time. And the fact alone that the Fact Find document incorrectly described Mr Ms marital status 
isnt a reason for me to think that none of the other information recorded in the Fact Find is 
dependable. As far as I can see, in all main respects the Fact Find accurately reflects the 
information recorded in the Attitude to Risk Questionnaire  which included detailed 
questions designed to capture, test and double-check the information Mr M was providing. 
So this error makes no difference to the suitability of the advice AFS provided to Mr M and 
its not a reason for me to uphold his complaint.   
To sum up, I think this particular investment suited the level of risk Mr M was prepared to 
take to improve the likelihood of a return on his investment, it offered the potential for 
capital growth he hoped for and it matched his savings goals and uncertain timescale at 
the time in a potentially tax efficient way.  
Im aware that Mr M has mentioned a number of points of concern during the course of this 
complaint. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the 
outcome of his complaint. If I havent commented on everything Mr M has said during the 
course of this complaint, thats because I dont feel theres anything more I can usefully add 
to what has already been said by the investigator. But I hope that setting things out as I have 
done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions and that Mr M will at least feel that 
his complaints have been given serious consideration even if this isnt the decision he was 
hoping for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman