DRN-4412060
The complaint
Mr B complains that following an instruction to close a joint executor account Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) closed his sole account in error. This 
resulted in direct debits and standing orders being cancelled and Mr B having to spend time 
reinstating them. 
What happened
Mr B instructed Virgin Money to close a joint executor account he held with his sister. Virgin 
Money wrongly closed Mr Bs sole account on 30 June. Mr B contacted Virgin Money about 
this online via chat on the same day and was advised to go into a store the following day 
where a new account would be set up. Mr B visited a store the following day where he says 
he spent an hour and a half trying to reinstate his account.
Virgin Money say Mr B was helped by its store manager to reactivate his account and 
reinstate direct debits when he visited its store and the account was successfully reactivated 
on 3 July. 
Mr B complained to Virgin Money about this on 5 July. Virgin Money upheld Mr Bs 
complaint, it apologised for the error it made in closing his account and acknowledged all the 
issues Mr B faced because of this. Virgin Money offered Mr B £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £18 to reimburse travel and parking costs when 
visiting its stores.
Mr B was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns and thought that the offer of £500 
compensation was fair and reasonable taking into consideration the time it took for Virgin 
Money to rectify its error (3 days) and the impact this had on Mr B and didnt recommend an 
uplift on this compensation. 
Mr B disagreed, he says not all of the direct debits were reinstated and that he had to 
manually contact each holder to re-instate the payments, as well as there being missed and 
additional payments he had to make, which took until September. 
Mr B doesnt believe the compensation is enough, he considers that Virgin Money breached 
a contract and is looking for compensation in the thousands and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr B has experienced and see if Virgin Money has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr B back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case Virgin Money has already accepted that it made a mistake in closing Mr Bs 
account and this has now been recovered and all the direct debits and standing orders 
reinstated, wrongly transferred money returned and Mr B has been put in the position he 
wouldve been in had the mistake hadnt happened. So all I have to decide is whether the 
£500 compensation offered is a fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint  and I think 
it is.
I accept that Mr B has had to spend some time wading through emails, reinstating the direct 
debits on his account as well as making up for missed payments which meant the problem 
wasnt resolved in the 3 days from when Mr Bs account was recovered. But Virgin Money 
did all it could to rectify its mistake that was within its power and within what I think is a 
reasonable time frame and Mr B understood that his account would be and was reinstated 
almost immediately. 
In any case things dont always go smoothly, mistakes do happen and my role isnt to punish 
or penalise businesses for their performance or behaviour - thats the role of the regulator, in 
this case the Financial Conduct Authority. From what I understand Virgin Moneys mistake 
hasnt negatively impacted Mr Bs overall position regarding his account or his credit file and 
I havent been made aware of any financial loss  outside of travel costs that have already 
been reimbursed - due to the mistake.  
I appreciate Mr B feels his reputation has been compromised due to a missed payment and 
his debit card being declined, as well as possibly having to explain to his sister why funds 
had been credited to their joint account  but this is what the compensation of £500 is for - to 
cover the distress and inconvenience caused from Virgin Moneys mistake.  
So in these circumstances I think the compensation offered is both fair and reasonable and 
in-line with what wed recommend in situations such as these and Im not going to ask Virgin 
Money to do anything else. Mr B now needs to decide if he is willing to accept Virgin 
Moneys offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Clydesdale Bank Plc has already 
offered to settle Mr Bs complaint is a fair way to settle his complaint and I do not require it to 
do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman