DRN-2538519
The complaint
Mr O complains about esure Insurance Limiteds decline of his claim for a laptop under his 
home insurance. My references to esure include its agents.
What happened
Mr O claimed on his home insurance policy when his laptop was damaged accidently. esure, 
the insurer, declined the claim for two reasons. First, the policy didnt cover items used for 
business purposes and Mr O had told it he relied on his laptop for business. Second, the 
policy didnt cover a single item valued at £1,500 or more which hadnt been listed as a 
specified item. esure said to replace Mr Os laptop with an equivalent would cost over 
£1,500, so the laptop should have been specified on the policy and as it wasnt there was no 
cover.
Mr O complained to us. He said he didnt list his laptop as a specific item because when he 
took out the policy the laptop was several years old and not worth the original purchase price 
of £1,700. He wanted esure to settle the claim by either paying for a like for like laptop with a 
smaller screen which cost just under £1,500 or pay for the laptop manufacturer to repair the 
damaged laptop or pay him the value of his laptop before it was damaged.
Our investigator said esure unfairly declined the claim and should reassess. esure disagreed 
and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether esure fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. 
Im intending to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes loss of or damage to any item owned or used totally or partly for 
business purposes or connected with any employment (except property defined as Office 
Equipment). The Office Equipment definition excludes laptops.
Ive listened to the recording of a call esure had with Mr O. He told esure that his business 
relied on his laptop. Also, the report from esures assessor, who looked at the damaged 
laptop, says Mr O told the assessor he was not sure if the laptop was bought through 
business or personal but he used it for business.
Mr O told our investigator he became agitated with esures representatives contempt for his 
claim and listed various urgent uses in addition to business use to appeal to his kinder 
nature. But the call I listened to has a female representative from esure who sounds 
sympathetic to Mr Os position. So I dont think Mr Os explanation does explain why he told 
esure in the call I listened to that his business relied on the laptop.
Mr O also told us he had a main work laptop provided by his employer and only used his 
laptop to pick up work emails when away from work. Ive seen the letter from his former 
employer which says that it gave Mr O a laptop when he joined. But the date he joined the 
employer is after the date esure has recorded for when the laptop was damaged (30 August 
2019). So on the information I have the letter doesnt support that Mr O only used his own 
laptop infrequently for work.
Overall l think esure reasonably understood that Mr O was using his laptop for business and 
fairly declined the claim on that basis.
Our investigator understood that Mr Os laptop was damaged on 10 September 2019, after 
he joined the employer, which would tie in with what Mr O says about having a work laptop. 
I havent asked esure to clarify the date of damage because even if I did think esure unfairly 
declined the claim on the business use exclusion I think it fairly declined the claim for the 
second reason it gave.
The policy says:
The most we will pay for contents and personal possessions:
We will not pay under any section of the Policy for any single item valued at £1,500 
or more that has not been listed as a Specified Item.
Mr O says he understood that as his laptop was no longer worth over £1,500 he didnt need 
to add it as a specified item. But the annual policy schedule says under the heading What 
you need to do:
Please check this document very carefully. It records the information you gave us. 
You have a duty to take reasonable care to ensure the information provided or 
confirmed to us before you enter into, vary or renew your Policy is accurate and not 
misleading. This duty includes a requirement to ensure that your household goods, 
high risk items, personal possessions and specified items are insured for the full 
replacement cost as new at all times
I think esure gave Mr O clear information at policy renewal that he needed to make sure his 
laptop was insured for the replacement cost as new. The information goes on to warn Mr O 
that a claim may be declined if an item isnt insured to its replacement as new cost.
The evidence is that a new replacement laptop was about £1,800 plus VAT. As Mr Os 
laptop replacement cost was more than £1,500 it needed to be listed as a specified item, as 
it wasnt esure fairly and reasonably said there was no cover for the item.
Responses to my provisional decision
esure didnt respond. Mr O didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary he said:
he was given a work laptop on 2 September. The laptop claimed for was damaged 
on 10 September so he had a business laptop at the time of the accident which 
showed his laptop was for personal use
he told ensure he used his laptop for business to speed up the claim process and he 
was referring to checking or replying to a few emails when away from the office, 
which most people do
ensure should be clear about what it means by business usage as he thought it a 
very grey area and an easy way for insurers to decline claims 
he didnt list the laptop as a specific item as when he took out the policy the laptop  was old and not worth £1,500. He said the policy term didnt apply in those 
circumstances and as the policy term wasnt clear he wasnt responsible for not 
listing the laptop as a specific item
he wasnt claiming full reimbursement for the laptops original price and would accept 
a settlement below £1,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Os full response but it hasnt changed my mind. I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
When Mr O made his claim he told esure that his business relied on his laptop. He also told 
esures assessor that he used the laptop for business. esure could reasonably understand 
from what Mr O told it when making his claim that his laptop was owned or used totally or 
partly for business purposes or connected with any employment which meant the policy 
exclusion applied. 
Mr O told us that he told esure he used the laptop for business to get the claim paid quicker 
and only used the laptop for checking emails out of work as most people do. But I think 
esure reasonably understood that the information Mr O gave it when he was making a claim 
was probably the most accurate information as thats the information a consumer gives 
before knowing whether a claim has been successful.
I note Mr O says the accidental damage to his laptop happened 10 September and esure 
has 30 August as the date of damage. If the date Mr O gave to us is correct then he was 
given a work laptop about a week before his laptop was damaged. But that doesnt alter that 
esure could reasonably believe what Mr O told it when he made the claim was true.  
There may be cases where whether an item claimed for had been used totally or partly for 
business purposes isnt clear. But in this case, for the reasons Ive given above, esure 
reasonably understood that Mr O was using his laptop for business and fairly declined the 
claim on that basis.
Even if I did think esure unfairly declined the claim on the business use exclusion, I still think 
it fairly declined the claim for the second reason it gave.
I understand that when Mr O took out the policy the laptop had reduced in value and 
wouldnt be worth its purchase price of £1,700. If the laptop was 7 or 8 years old, as Mr O 
says, its current value probably was below £1,500.
But the relevant policy terms Ive detailed above are very clear that at policy renewal Mr O 
needed to make sure his laptop was insured for the replacement cost as new. Its also clear 
that a claim may be declined if an item isnt insured to its replacement as new cost. Im 
satisfied that the policy terms do apply to Mr Os claim for his laptop. I dont think Mr O 
reasonably read the policy terms to mean he only need list an item as a specified item if its 
current value was over £1,500.
The evidence is that a new replacement laptop was about £1,800 plus VAT. As Mr Os 
laptop replacement cost was more than £1,500 it needed to be listed as a specified item to 
be covered by the policy.Mr O is looking for esure to settle his claim for less than £1,500, But esure doesnt need to 
make any settlement. As the laptop should have been listed as a specified item and wasnt, 
esure fairly and reasonably said there was no cover for the item
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman