DRN-3860221
The complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy as split liability. She wants it to change this to non-fault. 
What happened
Miss M was exiting a roundabout when another car collided with hers. Miss M provided 
details of a witness to UKI. UKI decided that a court wouldnt hold Miss M wholly not at fault, 
so it settled the claim as split liability. Miss M was unhappy with this as her No Claims 
Discount (NCD) was affected, and her policy excess wasnt refunded. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
reasonably considered the evidence available, including that of the witness, before deciding 
liability. He thought it was entitled to do this in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
So he couldnt say that UKI had done anything wrong. 
Miss M replied that the other driver had fled the scene and lied about the accident. She said 
the witness statement supported her position. She thought UKI should have contested the 
matter in court. Miss M asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M described the accident circumstances. She said she was exiting a roundabout when 
another car entered at speed and hit the rear passenger side of her car. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss M the same as someone else in her position. 
Im satisfied that UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss M to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss M has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision on liability. 
The evidence that UKI had to consider was Miss Ms and the other drivers version of events 
and the witness statement. I cant see that there was CCTV or dashcam footage available. 
UKI thought the circumstances were established. But the drivers held each other at fault. 
UKI decided that a court wouldnt find wholly in Miss Ms favour. It thought Miss M had 
crossed into another lane as she exited the roundabout and the other driver had tried to 
overtake her. It thought a court would find that both drivers had a duty of care to ensure that 
their manoeuvres were safe. So it settled the claim as split liability. 
Miss M lately said she hadnt changed lanes. But I think the witnesss statement shows that 
she was in the inside lane and then would have needed to move left to exit the roundabout. 
And I cant see that Miss M raised this with UKI when it responded to her concerns. 
Miss M thought the other drivers behaviour after the accident was significant. She said he 
had driven off without stopping and had then given his parents a different version of events. I 
can understand Miss Ms concerns. But UKI did consider his version of events. And I cant 
say that his later behaviour should be considered as it was after the event.  
So Im satisfied that UKI reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence 
available before making its decision to settle the claim as split liability. I think its entitled to 
do this by the policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that it has done anything wrong.
I can see that UKI agreed to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis. This leaves it open 
to Miss M to pursue the matter further, at her own cost, if she wishes to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman