DRN:DRN-1000142
 
the complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined her claim for a 
missed departure when returning from holiday.
what happened
Mrs B purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, supplied by Astrenska, to 
provide cover for her holiday abroad.
On her return journey Mrs Bs connecting flight was delayed which meant she missed 
her connecting flight to the UK. As a consequence of missing her flight Mrs B says she 
incurred additional costs for a new flight, hotel accommodation and taxis. So she made a 
claim on her travel insurance.
Astrenska declined her claim, saying that her policy did not include cover for 
missed departures on an inbound flight. They said it only covered her for missed departures 
on the outbound leg of her trip and that this was made clear in the policy.
So Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. She said Astrenska failed to make it 
clear that her policy didn't provide cover for a missed departure on the inbound leg of her 
trip. She also said the policy led her to believe she was covered for any missed departure 
because the section in question is titled section 1  missed departure.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint, and he agreed with Astrenska that they didn't 
need to pay the claim. He said that pages 3 and 26 both stated missed departure on your 
outward journey and because of this Mrs B shouldve known she was only covered on the 
outbound leg of her trip.
Mrs B disagreed with our Investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsmans 
final decision, so the case has come to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 December 2018.  In my provisional decision I explained 
why I was intending to uphold Mrs B's complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information before I reached my final decision.
Both Mrs B and Astrenska replied to say they accepted my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As everyone agrees with my conclusions, 
I confirm my findings as set out in my provisional decision. A copy of my provisional findings 
is below.
I can understand why Mrs B wouldve thought her policy covered her for a missed 
departure on an inbound flight. Many policies cover missed departures for both inbound and 
outbound flights. Its a significant and unusual restriction to only provide cover for one leg of 
the trip.So it was Astrenskas responsibility to make this information clear to Mrs B. On Page 1 of the 
policy the contents lists section I  Missed departure. I find this to be misleading and I can 
understand why someone reading this would think they were covered for any missed 
departure. 
As our investigator said, the policy wording does contain reference to the exclusion on pages 
3 and 26. However, given the title of the section is missed departure and the restriction is 
only called out in the detail of the policy document, I think Astrenska shouldve done more to 
highlight the significant and unusual restriction in Mrs Bs policy.
Ive looked at what I think wouldve happened had the exclusion been sufficiently brought 
to Mrs Bs attention. And Im satisfied Mrs B wouldve chosen to buy a different policy 
which wouldve covered her for both the outbound and inbound flights.
putting things right
To put things right Astrenska should assess Mrs Bs claim on the same policy terms 
that apply to a missed departure on an outbound journey.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to assess Mrs Bs claim on the same policy terms that 
apply to a missed departure on an outbound journey.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2019.
 
Lee Crawford
ombudsman