DRN-1708676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the PPI in 1997 at the same time as arranging their mortgage in a 
branch of Lloyds. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy covered only Mrs M for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say that the PPI was added to the mortgage account without their knowledge 
or consent. Looking at the mortgage application form I can see that there is a separate 
section for PPI with yes and no boxes that could be ticked to either request or decline the 
policy. The yes box has been ticked and Mr and Mrs M signed the form on 11 June 1997. 
Ive also seen Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer. The premium for MortgageSure (the brand 
name of the PPI policy) is clearly shown as being £8.94 per month. Further down the form 
there is a section that details the PPI as being set up 100% for Mrs M and it again lists the 
cost as being £8.94 per month. Mr and Mrs M signed the mortgage offer on 28 July 1997.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ms recollection 
of events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I am satisfied that the PPI was 
presented as optional. It seems to me that Mr and Mrs M decided to buy the policy, knowing 
that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and therefore, in recommended it to 
them, it needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs Ms needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, I consider that the policy was suitable for them.
The couple have said that the policy wasnt suitable for Mr M as he wasnt working at the 
time. But as I have mentioned above, the policy didnt cover Mr M. As Mrs M was the one 
that was working, it makes sense that the PPI was set up only to cover her. This suggests 
that there was probably some discussion about the PPI and how it could best fit with Mr and 
Mrs Ms needs at that time.
Mrs M has said that the policy wouldnt have covered her as she had a pre-existing medical 
condition. But her condition was something that shed lived with since childhood and that didnt seem to affect her on a day to day basis. Although she has said that the condition 
made her more susceptible to illness, she has also told us that she was never off work sick. I 
doubt Mrs M would have thought that this condition would be the reason why she might have 
to end up making a claim on the policy. So Im not persuaded that the exclusions and 
limitations in the policy would have restricted cover for Mrs M to the extent that she would 
not have wanted to take it out.
Mrs M cant remember what sick pay she may have received from her employer. And the 
couple had no other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that they had a 
need for the cover and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. 
Indeed, Lloyds has told us that Mrs M did in fact make a claim on the policy.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But for the reasons already mentioned, I 
dont think that Mr and Mrs M would have been affected by any of those things. As I think 
they had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information 
would have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of 
anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman