DRN-2526788
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt of satisfactory
quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss H under a hire purchase agreement with Oodle Car 
Finance that she electronically signed in February 2019. She had the car serviced about a 
month later but in August 2019, when she was driving the car, the engine warning light came 
on and she says that she heard a loud noise from the cars engine. The car was recovered 
to a manufacturers dealer which said that the car needed a new engine and quoted 
£12,832.37 for the required work.
Miss H contacted Oodle Car Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert. The experts report concluded that the engine defect was the result of 
the car being operated with depleted oil so Oodle Car Finance didnt uphold her complaint. 
Miss H arranged a second inspection of the car. The second expert reports concluded that 
the issues were caused by the failure of a cylinder connecting rod bearing and that it was 
highly likely that the failure would have been developing at the point of sale. Miss H wasnt 
satisfied with Oodle Car Finances response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
evidence showed that it was more likely than not that the fault was present at the point of 
sale so he recommended that Oodle Car Finance should bear the necessary repair costs or, 
if it wasnt economical to repair the car, that it should consider replacing it or allowing Miss H 
to reject it. Oodle Car Finance hasnt accepted our investigators recommendations.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 November 2020 in which I explained 
the reasons that I considered that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Miss H provided 
additional evidence in response to it and I issued a second provisional decision to Miss H 
and to Oodle Car Finance on 18 December 2020. In my second provisional decision I said 
as follows:
Miss H was able to use the car between February 2019, when the car was supplied 
to her, and August 2019, when it broke down, and in less than 6 months she was 
able to drive the car for about 4,700 miles  so I consider that shes had reasonable 
use from the car. I also consider that its fair and reasonable for her to pay for that 
use. Ive already said that Oodle Car Finance should refund to Miss H all of the 
monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since the car broke down in 
August 2019, with interest. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to refund to her the monthly payments that she made before that.
I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep those amounts as payment for 
the use that Miss H has had from the car.
Miss H paid £435.44 for the car to be serviced in April 2019. Service costs are 
normal running costs of a car and Miss H has benefitted from having the car serviced 
 even though she was only able to use it until it broke down. Im not persuaded that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle Car Finance to reimburse her 
for those servicing costs.
Miss H also paid £735.20 for replacement arch liners, an engine undertray and rear 
shock absorbers in May 2019. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that those repairs were necessary because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to her. The manufacturers dealer repaired the car and Ive 
seen no evidence to show that she contacted the dealer or Oodle Car Finance about 
those issues. But she will have had no benefit from those repairs after the car broke 
down in August 2019 so I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Oodle Car Finance to reimburse her for half of those repair costs - 
£367.60  with interest, to reflect that.
Miss H says that she changed the cars wheels to alloy wheels and that she bought 
new tyres for the car that cost about £500. Ive seen no evidence to show that the 
wheels and tyres that the car was supplied with werent in a road worthy condition 
when the car was supplied to her and I consider that it was her choice to replace the 
wheels and tyres. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Oodle Car Finance to reimburse her for the cost of the replacement tyres.
Miss H says that she bought a replacement car in September 2019 because the car 
that was supplied to her under the hire purchase agreement had broken down. 
I sympathise with the difficulties that she was facing but it was her choice to buy a 
replacement car, shes had the benefit of it and Ive already said that Oodle Car 
Finance should refund the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement 
since August 2019  so she wont have been paying for the car since then. Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Oodle Car Finance to 
reimburse her for the cost of the replacement car.
Miss H hired a car after her car had broken down and before she bought the 
replacement car. She says that Oodle Car Finance agreed to pay for the hire car but 
Ive seen no other evidence to show that it agreed to do so. But she was unable to 
use her car because it had broken down and I find that its fair and reasonable for 
Oodle Car Finance to pay her £141.54 to reimburse her for those car hire costs, with 
interest.
Miss H has provided evidence to show that she paid £278 for the car to be inspected 
in October 2019. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to 
reimburse her for the cost of that report, with interest.
Miss H has provided an e-mail from the manufacturers dealer which says the cost for 
storing the car is £7,860 and that the cost of the diagnosis and investigation work that 
it carried out is £1,344 and it requires payment before the car can be collected by 
Oodle Car Finance. The manufacturers dealer doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of 
this service so Im unable to make any finding about what it should and shouldnt do. 
But I dont consider that storage costs of £7,860 are justified. Ive already said that 
Oodle Car Finance must arrange for the car to be collected at no further cost to 
Miss H and I would expect it to agree an appropriate payment to the manufacturers 
dealer for any outstanding issues before it collects the car. If the manufacturers 
dealer seeks to enforce payment of any of those amounts against Miss H, I would 
expect Oodle Car Finance to reimburse Miss H for any further sums that she has to 
pay.I sympathise with Miss H for the difficulties that shes been caused by these events  
and for the distress and inconvenience that shes experienced. Ive already said that 
Oodle Car Finance should pay her £300 to compensate her for that distress and 
inconvenience  and I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
it to pay her a higher amount of compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
So in an addition to the findings that I set out in my provisional decision, I find that 
Oodle Car Finance should: pay Miss H £367.60 towards the repair costs that she 
incurred in May 2019; pay her £277 to reimburse her for the cost of the inspection 
and pay her £141.54 to reimburse her for the hire car costs. I also find that it should 
pay interest on all of those amounts.
Neither Miss H nor Oodle Car Finance has responded to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss H nor Oodle Car Finance has responded to my second provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change the findings that I made in it. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to take the actions that were 
set out in my second provisional decision and which are also set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I order Oodle Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from the 
manufacturers dealer  both at no further cost to Miss H.
2. Refund to Miss H the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement since 
the engine failed in August 2019.
3. Pay Miss H £367.60 towards the repair costs that she incurred in May 2019.
4. Pay Miss H £277 to reimburse her for the cost of the inspection and £141.54 to 
reimburse her for the hire car costs.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that it has recorded on 
Miss Hs credit file.
7. Pay £300 to Miss H to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 5 above. Oodle Car Finance must give Miss H a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman