DRN-4341337
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Amplifi Capital (U.K.) Limited (trading as Reevo Money) 
provided to him. 
He says that proportionate checks would have shown this was unaffordable as he was a 
compulsive gambler.
Background
Reevo Money provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in January 2023. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £91.03 and a final instalment of £104.11. One of 
our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Reevo Money had told us. And he thought that 
Reevo Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Reevo Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Reevo Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Reevo Money says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Reevo Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with Reevo Money. 
Furthermore, Reevo Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure 
information it obtained at the time of Mr Ms application as well as a record of the results of 
its credit searches.
Reevo Moneys searches appear to show that Mr M did have some existing debts. But 
crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ms existing debts were being relatively well 
maintained and there was no significant adverse information such as defaults or county court 
judgements (CCJ). 
And when payments for Mr Ms active credit commitments, were deducted from his income, 
he does appear to have had sufficient funds left over to cover his living expenses and the 
low monthly payments to this loan.
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected either in the information hes provided, or the information Reevo Money obtained at 
the time. But, in any event, Reevo Money could only make a reasonable decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. 
And as this was a first loan with low monthly payments, Mr M committed to consolidating 
some of his existing borrowing and there wasnt anything to indicate that Mr M might have 
been experiencing financial difficulty at the time, Im satisfied that Reevo Money was 
reasonably entitled to believe that Mr M could afford to make his payments. 
I accept that it is likely  but not certain - that Reevo Money might have reached a different 
conclusion on whether to provide this loan had it seen Mr Ms bank statements and learned 
of his gambling. But given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious inconsistencies and 
most importantly any indication that Mr M was struggling financially, I dont think that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining bank statements 
here. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Reevo Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr M  in my view, checks carried out, which were proportionate, suggested the low 
monthly repayments  of under £100 a month (for all but one of the payments) - were 
affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Reevo Money treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I would remind Reevo Money of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event of Mr M has difficulty 
making payments and it chooses to collect payments from him. 
I say this while mindful of it accepting that Mr Ms difficult circumstances and the gesture of 
goodwill offer it made in its final response to Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman