DRN-3548107
The complaint
Mr C is complaining MBNA Limited hasnt refunded an amount he paid for a holiday on his 
MBNA credit card.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr C says he bought a holiday through a travel agent  who I shall refer to as T 
to travel in July 2020. He says he booked it on the telephone. T subsequently went into 
administration and the holiday was cancelled. 
Mr C contacted MBNA to request a refund of what he paid. MBNA referred him to the Civil 
Aviation Authority (CAA) to request a refund directly from them. In January 2020 Mr C 
contacted MBNA again to say he hadnt received a refund, but MBNA said it needed 
evidence to show the CAA had declined his claim.
In June 2020 Mr C contacted MBNA again to dispute the transaction. MBNA then processed 
the chargeback. The merchant defended the claim. I understand it did so on the basis there 
was no evidence Mr C had received a response from the CAA. MBNA processed the 
chargeback claim again, but the claim was defended again on the same grounds. MBNA 
then considered the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
But it said Mr C hadnt provided copies of the booking invoice or evidence of the holiday, 
other than an insurance document. So it didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show 
there was a breach of contract and it declined the claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr C had booked a holiday 
through T that wasnt provided. And she was satisfied Mr C hadnt received a refund from 
the CAA. So she didnt think it was fair for MBNA to have declined his Section 75 claim. She 
thought MBNA should refund the amount Mr C had paid for the holiday and reconstruct the 
credit card to remove any interest charged on this transaction.
MBNA didnt agree with the investigator as it maintained that, without the booking invoice or 
confirmation, there wasnt anything to show that the transaction was for a holiday. It also 
queried how Mr C would be able to travel without travel documents.
As MBNA didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
Mr C is complaining about the way MBNA handled a dispute over a payment he says he 
made for a holiday. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit 
card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and 
SECTION 75. I would expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Ill consider both 
avenues separately.
Chargeback 
As Mr C paid for the holiday by card, there are certain circumstances in which MBNA might 
be able to recover her money through the chargeback process. 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the individual card scheme provider. The two main possible rules he could 
potentially have a chargeback right is  service not provided or  credit not received. 
In this instance Mr C looked to receive a refund of the tickets because T went into 
administration and his holiday was cancelled. MBNA responded to say that he needed to 
contact the CAA before he could raise a chargeback claim. I dont think it was unreasonable 
it said this, as its a requirement under the chargeback rules of the scheme provider that 
Mr C needed to look to resolve the matter through the relevant bonding authority. Ive looked 
at the guidance that was being provided by ABTA at the time and this said consumers 
needed to contact the CAA. So it wasnt unreasonable for MBNA to say Mr C needed to 
contact the CAA first before it could consider the chargeback claim.
I can see that MBNA did later process the chargeback claim twice, but each time T defended 
the claim on the basis there was no evidence the CAA had declined the claim. Im conscious 
Mr C hasnt provided anything in writing to show the CAA had declined the claim. However, 
he has provided detailed testimony for why it was declined  i.e. that he didnt have a 
booking reference. 
MBNA decided to not continue with the claim because of Ts response. But Im not 
persuaded this was fair given Mr Cs testimony  which Ive found to be plausible and 
persuasive. So I think MBNA should have given stronger consideration to continuing this 
claim. But I dont need to make a finding on this, because I think MBNA should have upheld 
Mr Cs Section 75 claim. And, had it done so, there would have been no requirement to 
continue with the chargeback claim. Ill now explain why.
Section 75
Mr C paid for the holiday on his MBNA credit card. SECTION 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, MBNA is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
MBNA doesnt believe theres anything to show that the amount Mr C paid was for a holiday 
 it suggested it could equally have been extras for the holiday he was on at the time. 
While I accept that Mr C hasnt provided an invoice or booking confirmation for the holiday, I 
dont think this is necessarily fair grounds to decline the claim. I would expect MBNA to 
consider all evidence provided  including Mr Cs testimony  in assessing whether Mr C has 
done enough to show T has breached the terms of the contract and that he has suffered a 
loss as a result of this. I dont think MBNA has done this in this case. 
Ive found Mr Cs testimony to be plausible and persuasive in this case. Hes been consistent with what hes told MBNA and this service and I find its supported by the evidence hes 
provided. Mr C has said he bought the holiday on the telephone while he was on holiday at 
the time. Hes told us the holiday cost around £1,400 and he paid a deposit of £564, with the 
balance to pay shortly before the holiday. Hes also provided a copy of the insurance policy 
he took out to cover that holiday. This is issued on the same date he paid for the alleged 
holiday and is for 16 days travelling in Europe. Its also on T branded paperwork. So, taking 
everything into consideration, Im satisfied the transaction in question was for a holiday 
where T was the supplier.
T went into administration and Im satisfied the contract was cancelled and I havent seen 
anything to show Mr C has received a refund of what he paid for the holiday. So I think Mr C 
has reasonably shown T breached the terms of the contract. As I said, MBNA is liable for 
any breach of contract by T. So I think its liable for the losses Mr C has suffered and I think 
it should do the following to put things right:
Reconstruct Mr Cs credit card as if the transaction had never taken place; and
If Mr C is out of pocket as a result of the transaction, MBNA should refund this*. 
* It should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from when Mr C paid them 
until he gets them back. If MBNA thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
Mr C has told us he didnt pay the remaining balance of the holiday, so MBNA doesnt need 
to refund anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require MBNA Limited to compensate Mr C in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman