DRN-3176784
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc removed money from his account to 
repay a business loan causing distress.
What happened
Mr M arranged to sell a business asset that was used as security for a loan from NatWest. 
He is unhappy that on 11 August 2021 NatWest took over £75,000 from his current account 
to repay the loan. And he didnt receive all the net proceeds due to him until later that day.
NatWest said that it had been in contact with his solicitors about the sale of the asset and 
repayment of the borrowing. The solicitor had wanted the legal charge to be released. The 
business manager had seen that funds of over £90,000 had been credited to Mr Ms current 
account from the solicitor on 9 August 2021. And so, part of these funds were utilised to 
repay the borrowing. Later that day the solicitor had forward just under £72,000 into his 
account. But this wouldnt have been sufficient to repay the borrowing. It said that it appears 
that there was a level of confusion between your solicitors and the bank. And it offered to 
pay Mr M £200 in compensation which it stated it knew was lower than he expected.
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything further. He said that NatWest 
had been contacted on 9 August 2021 by the solicitors for the account details for redemption 
of the loan. It had provided this the next day. Mr Ms account didnt go overdrawn as a result 
of the repayment and there was no significant effect for Mr Ms business  although he 
recognised the distress caused during the day. But in order to release the charge the loan 
had to be repaid. He said that we were only looking at the circumstances of this complaint 
and not the compensation that had been paid to Mr M in any other complaints. And we could 
only look at the role of NatWest here and not the solicitors. He thought that the 
compensation was fair.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the compensation 
was derisory. NatWest did make an error and the serious aspect of this hasnt been 
recognised. This wouldnt stop this happening in other cases. This was malpractice and he 
thought that it had acted illegally. It had broken the terms and conditions of the loan and had 
no authority to move the money. This may be a victimless crime, but it is a crime, 
nonetheless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal resolution and we arent a court. If Mr M doesnt accept my 
decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant limits. So, I wouldnt 
be in a position to decide if the actions of NatWest were illegal, but I will take into account 
everything Mr M has said in making my assessment.
I agree with Mr M that he would reasonably expect this to be dealt with correctly between 
NatWest and his solicitors. Its clear he intended that the borrowing be repaid. As NatWest 
had a legal charge it had first call on the proceeds to do this.
As our investigator says we can only assess the actions of NatWest in this complaint. It 
wrote to the solicitors on 10 August 2021 with the loan account details for repayment. It 
didnt seem that an earlier redemption statement had confirmed those details.
I dont doubt that Mr M thought that the money hed already been sent was the residual 
amount he was due after repaying his borrowing. That wasnt quite right as the amount still 
held by the solicitors was insufficient to repay the loan. But he clearly wasnt expecting 
money to be taken out of his account and he wasnt told about that before it happened.
Mr M was though put into the position he ought to have been in during 11 August 2021. 
Technically NatWest shouldnt have needed to remove the money from his account; but it 
did that to repay the loan. And this allowed the legal charge to be removed as his solicitors 
required. The related entry on his statement reflects a transfer to the loan account. Mr M 
received the remaining funds from his solicitors. And I dont think that Mr M could for more 
that a short period reasonably worry he was going to be out of pocket or money had gone 
missing. And that wasnt what happened.
Mr M has though been caused distress and inconvenience by NatWests actions. We dont 
make punitive awards and each case is judged on its merits. Ive taken into account our 
published guidance about compensation. And having done so I consider that the amount 
offered by NatWest is reasonable to reflect the impact of what happened and to resolve the 
complaint. I know Mr M will be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more than this.
My final decision
NatWest has made an offer to pay Mr M £200 to settle this complaint which I think is fair in 
all the circumstances. So, my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc pay Mr M 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael CreweOmbudsman