DRN-1540630
 
Complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So, the adjudicator sent out his view with 
the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its insurance 
business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up against 
AXA.
So, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mr H took out a store card in 2002. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr H £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr H was off 
work sick or lost his job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mr H was eligible for the PPI based on his age and employment at the time of 
the sale. 
AXA had to make it clear to Mr H that the PPI was optional and needed Mr Hs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr H says he wasnt aware he had been sold PPI 
and as such it was sold without his consent.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr H 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. This document has a section for 
PPI. I can see that in order for PPI to be applied to the account, Mr H would have had to sign 
separately for it. I note that Mr H did sign to take PPI. If Mr H hadnt signed to take PPI then I 
cant see that PPI would have been applied to his account at this time.
So, while I appreciate what Mr H has told us, based on what Ive seen, I cant say that its 
more likely that PPI wasnt presented as optional or that it was added without his knowledge 
or consent.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mr H to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr H. So, for example, they didnt have to ask 
about or consider Mr Hs existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mr H.
But AXA did have to give Mr H clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mr H all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr H off taking the 
policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
I note what Mr H has told us about his employee sick pay entitlement and more 
recently about his savings. I havent seen any evidence of this sick pay entitlement or 
savings. However, as mentioned earlier, it wouldnt have been AXAs responsibility to 
take into account Mr Hs existing repayment provisions. And, in any event, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr H may have received and potentially 
for a longer period of time. It wouldve covered 15% of his repayments every month 
until the outstanding balance had been paid off or he returned to work. And it 
wouldve provided the same cover if Mr H lost his job. 
 
Mr H didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy 
such as those relating to preexisting medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements. So, it seems like Mr H could have made a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
 
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr H.
 
Mr H couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
thought he could no longer afford it or no longer wanted it.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr H was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman