DRN-4365048
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc repeatedly sent him letters and other 
communications in small print despite having assured him that he had a marker on his 
accounts for all communications to be sent in large print.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr W had cause to complain to Santander as he had received letters in 
small print size when he had specifically requested, and it was marked on his account, that 
he should receive letters in large print. He also complained about waiting times in the bank. 
Santander apologised and agreed to pay him £150 compensation. 
However Mr W continued to receive letters in small print. Santander paid him a further £50 
and assured him his accounts had been marked and updated. But he continued to receive 
letters in small print. Santander paid him a further £400 on 10 March 2023 after Mr W 
received communications in small print following the setting up of an ISA, and a further £75 
on 29 March after he received two further letters in small print. He was also paid £100 (in 
March 2023) following a communication breakdown in dealing with his complaint 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator recognised that Santander 
had apologised for its errors and paid Mr W compensation. He noted also that Santander 
had placed a marker on its system to ensure that its staff were all aware of Mr W's need to 
have large print documents.
Mr W did not feel that was sufficient as Santander had previously told him that it had placed 
a marker on his accounts but had failed to ensure that was done effectively. He felt he 
needed a cast iron guarantee that there would be no future errors. He also thought that a 
meeting should be set up between Santander and the RNIB (Royal National Institute for the 
Blind) and that Santanders breaches of the law should be reported to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). He also said that in respect of the last payment of compensation this should 
be £75 per letter so Santander should pay a further £75.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the 
Courts. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for the 
Courts to say whether or not Santander has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to 
take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the Equality Act a business must make reasonable adjustments for someone with a 
disability, in Mr W's case, sight impairment. He required documents and other 
communications to be sent in large print. I think that was a reasonable request to make and 
something Santander could easily have made adjustments to carry out. 
Santander has admitted errors, and that it did not comply with Mr Ws request on a number 
of occasions. This was even after it was drawn to its attention and had assured Mr W that 
markers had been placed on his account. It appears that just happened through human 
error. For instance when he set up an ISA, the bank adviser did not use the correct 
procedure in getting the information sent out to him in the right format. 
In respect of all the errors, I think it was appropriate for Santander to pay compensation, and 
when the error was repeated a number of times, for it to pay increased compensation. 
Having said that I have noted that, in respect of failing to send documents out in large print, 
Santander has paid Mr W total compensation of £675. We think it fair to make that sort of 
award where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused considerable distress, upset 
and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to 
sort out. In Mr Ws case the period over which things occurred this was about seven months. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Santander to award Mr W £675. I should add that in 
such cases we don't use a tariff or make awards per failure, such as in respect of each 
incorrectly formatted letter.
With regard to Mr W's wider concerns, we operate as an alternative dispute resolution 
service. Our function is to resolve complaints informally and I can't make directions requiring 
Santander to liaise with any other body. And, as I have set above, it is not for me to say 
whether Santander acted unlawfully or not. And it is a matter for Mr W if he wants to contact 
the FCA. 
Finally I can't ask Santander to give a cast iron guarantee that this sort of error will not 
happen in the future. I don't think any member of its staff is in a position to do that. We would 
expect it to make reasonable adjustments to its systems and I would hope that as it has had 
to pay Mr W a large amount of compensation to date, it will ensure that he continues to 
receive documents in the manner requested.
My final decision
As I think Santander UK Plc has paid a reasonable amount of compensation I wont require it 
to pay anything more in respect of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman