DRN-3251363
The complaint
Miss M complains that Temple Finance Limited, trading as Perfecthome irresponsibly gave 
her three hire purchase agreements she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss M took out three hire purchase agreements through Temple Finance in order to acquire 
some household goods. Agreement one was taken out in 2013 and the total repayable was 
£1,244.88. Agreement two was taken out in 2014 with a total repayable of £1,355.64. 
Agreement three was taken out in 2016 with a total repayable of £3,230.24. Miss M was 
required to make weekly payments towards each agreement. 
Miss M complained to Temple Finance to say that the agreements had been unaffordable to 
her and that had appropriate affordability checks been completed then it ought to have seen 
this was the case. Temple Finance didnt agree it had done anything wrong. However, 
separate to this complaint Temple Finance reviewed Miss Ms agreements under a redress 
scheme it had agreed with the regulator. The result of this was that it decided to write off the 
outstanding balance of agreement three and transferred ownership of the goods under that 
agreement to Miss M. Temple Finance said that Miss M had only paid £381.30 towards the 
original cash price of £1,205.49, meaning as well as writing off all of the interest and charges 
it applied, it also wrote off £824.19 of capital, meaning she has received the goods at a 
significant discount. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought Temple 
Finance had already done more than we would have recommended if we had upheld 
agreement three. This is because Temple Finance had agreed to write off a large amount of 
the capital owed. He wasnt persuaded that Temple Finance had acted unfairly in approving 
agreement one. In relation to agreement two, he said that even if he were satisfied it should 
be upheld, the total amount Temple Finance had already agreed to write off on agreement 
three meant that Miss M had received more back in total than if he upheld the complaint 
about agreements two and three.
Miss M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to approving finance for Miss M, Temple Finance were required to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Temple Finance has been unable to provide any 
information about what checks it completed prior to Miss M entering into agreement one. I 
therefore cant be satisfied it did complete proportionate affordability checks. However, 
Miss M hasnt been able to demonstrate satisfactorily that proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown Temple Finance that the agreement was likely to be unaffordable. 
Im not persuaded therefore that Temple Finance made an unfair lending decision relating to 
agreement one. 
As set out above, Temple Finance has transferred ownership of the goods under agreement 
three to Miss M and written off the outstanding balance. That write off included all interest 
and charges as well an amount of £824.19 of capital. Generally, if I were to conclude an 
agreement was unaffordable and shouldnt have been granted, Id still say that a consumer 
ought to pay back the capital amount that was borrowed. Ive not seen any compelling 
reason why I would have reached a different conclusion in Miss Ms circumstances about her 
needing to repay all of the capital. She has therefore already received a larger refund in 
relation to agreement three than anything I would have awarded if I had upheld her 
complaint about that agreement. I dont therefore consider it necessary to consider whether 
Temple Finance did anything wrong in relation to agreement three. 
Lastly, the total amount of charges and interest applied under agreement two was £624.64. 
As Miss M has already received the benefit of a capital write off which is a larger amount 
than this interest charge, Im satisfied shes already been compensated to a greater extent to 
what I would have awarded had I concluded Temple Finance acted unfairly in approving 
agreements two and three. I therefore dont consider Temple Finance needs to do anything 
further to put things right. 
I understand Miss M still has an outstanding balance to pay on agreement two. I remind 
Temple Finance of its obligations to treat Miss M fairly and with forbearance if she is in 
financial difficulty and struggling to repay. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman