DRN-3044027
The complaint
Mr R has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then invested by 
another firm.
Mr R is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr R.
 
What happened
In late 2013 Mr R came into contact with an advisory firm (Firm C), who at that time was an 
appointed representative (AR) of a regulated business (Firm S). Firm S was authorised by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither Firm S nor 
Firm C were authorised to provide pension transfer advice. Mr R was introduced by Firm C 
to Portafina, who were authorised to provide pension transfer advice. Portafina had an 
established business arrangement with Firm C, whereby Portafina would provide the 
pension transfer advice before referring the client back to Firm C for investment advice on 
the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed for Mr R.
Portafina started advising Mr R of his options in late 2014. By this time he was aged 54, 
unemployed and receiving Jobseekers Allowance of £400 per month. He was divorced and 
had underlying health conditions and aside from personal belongings, he had no other 
assets beyond his OPS. Mr R was looking to release tax-free cash (TFC) from his OPS 
when he reached 55 to help him get back on his feet. Portafina noted Mr R wanted to retire 
at 67, which was later than his OPS normal retirement age of 65.
Mr Rs OPS had a transfer value of about £97,000. The revalued pension at this time was 
£4,734, which could be taken unreduced at age 60 and early retirement was allowed from 
age 55, without trustee consent, as long as the reduced pension due to early retirement was 
large enough to pay the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). There was also a maximum 
TFC of £9,588 plus potentially more TFC if some of the pension was commuted. Benefits on 
death were a 50% widows pension and also included a lump sum of five times the pension 
on death before retirement. It was assumed Mr R would receive a full State Pension and he 
had no other pension provision.
Portafina conducted an attitude to risk (ATR) assessment and concluded that Mr R had an 
adventurous ATR. A transfer value analysis (TVAS) calculated critical yields at age 67 of 
16.6% per year based on a full pension or 13.9% per year after taking TFC and receiving a 
reduced pension.
An advisor sent Mr R a suitability report (SR) which recommended he transfer his OPS to a 
SIPP in order to meet his objective of providing early access to his TFC and retire later than 
65. It said Firm C would provide investment advice, but based on Mr Rs adventurous ATR it 
estimated he could achieve an average gross return (before initial and on-going advice and 
plan charges) of 7.76%. As this was higher than the hurdle rate of 6.41%, it told Mr R he was 
likely to be able to increase the overall pension and TFC benefits available to him.
It said that Portafina would charge an initial advice fee of 5% of the transfer value, of which 
2% would go to Firm C as part of their introducer arrangement. It advised there may also be 
additional charges for the funds recommended by Firm C.
The transfer value quote expired and eight months later a new one was obtained. By this 
time the transfer value had increased to about £109,000 but the critical yield (assuming no 
TFC was taken) had increased from 16.6% to 17.2%. The transfer completed in 
November 2015, by which time the transfer value had again increased to about £115,000. In 
January 2016 Mr R took his maximum TFC entitlement of £27,288.75. Shortly after, the 
SIPP agency was transferred from Portafina to Firm C, who proceeded to invest his funds.
In the following two years Mr R withdrew a further £35,000 and in 2016 Portafina resumed 
as the servicing agent for his SIPP.
Firm C went into liquidation in 2017 and in 2018 Mr R complained to Portafina about the 
transfer advice and investment advice. In particular he complained that the transfer advice 
was negligent; he was wrongly classified as an adventurous investor; he didnt have the 
capacity to absorb the risks of the transfer and Portafina were responsible for the unsuitable 
investments made by Firm C.
Portafina rejected the complaint. It argued that the transfer advice was suitable because it 
met Mr Rs objectives and the FCA consultation paper from March 2018 confirmed that it 
was acceptable for two firms to act for a client in the way Portafina and Firm C did. It said it 
wasnt responsible for the investments made by Firm C, and the investments it had arranged 
for Mr R since it resumed as his servicing agent in 2016 were suitable for him.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service and an adjudicator upheld it. In particular he said 
that the transfer advice was unsuitable because the risks and the critical yield were too high. 
He said Mr Rs attitude to risk shouldve been assessed as cautious instead of adventurous 
and there was a lack of consideration of taking benefits early under the OPS. He added that 
as per an FSA alert from January 2013, Portafina were responsible for the investments 
made by Firm C, which included Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) that 
were high risk, illiquid and unsuitable for Mr R. The adjudicator recommended that Mr R be 
put back into the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice.
Portafina didnt agree. It said it had conducted appropriate due diligence on Firm C and it 
wasnt responsible for their investment advice. It said it set out in the SR what it believed to 
be the likely investment proposition based on Mr Rs attitude to risk and the advice was 
based on this. Portafina said taking benefits early from the OPS wouldnt have been suitable 
because of the reduction for early payment; and any monetary award to Mr R should 
consider any monetary award available from the FSCS following the liquidation of Firm C.
The investigator didnt change his mind. As no agreement could be reached, the case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
Before making my final decision I asked a case reviewer to explain to Portafina that it 
appeared that Firm C didnt invest Mr Rs SIPP fund in UCIS but that the transfer advice was 
unsuitable in any event. Portafina was given an opportunity to respond, but no response to 
these points was provided.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Portafina advised Mr R to transfer his OPS to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Rs underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money was made available 
for investment. I believe that as Mr Rs financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable, even though another regulated firm was involved. 
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. Portafina appeared to recognise this in its SR when, despite saying Firm C 
would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund asset 
classes Mr R should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a model 
portfolio for an adventurous investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mr R was. And its partly 
on the basis that Mr R invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the  
relevant targeted returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase his overall 
pension benefits and was therefore worthwhile. 
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers (...) are under the mistaken impression (...) they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating (...) If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. 
I acknowledge that the regulators statement makes specific reference to unregulated 
investments but Mr R doesnt appear to have invested in unregulated investments. 
Nonetheless, I think its clear that the statement applies to investments as a whole and isnt 
simply limited to unregulated investments. I also acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules in the 
sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its handbook. However, I think 
it is a relevant consideration when determining this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm that 
made the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an 
unregulated introducer. Whereas in Mr Rs case, Firm C was authorised to conduct 
investment business under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be 
pursued for compensation by a consumer within the financial services regulatory regime.
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Rs transaction 
from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mr R that it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying
investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful thought, 
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
As Ive said above, its clear to me that the alert isnt limited to just unregulated investments. 
And I can see it makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Rs case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension transfer cases, regard to the overall proposition was 
only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the assets contemplated 
included unregulated investments. 
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014 which stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will (...) transfer 
(...) to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (...), then the overall advice is not suitable. 
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer (...) at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.  
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS, the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. So, Portafinas 
advice on the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying  
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the 
matter.
Ive seen the SIPP transaction statement which shows that during the time that Firm C was 
the servicing agent there were numerous buys and sells of different investment funds. Because of this it isnt entirely clear how Firm C invested Mr Rs SIPP, but I dont think that is 
important here because Portafina still needed to be familiar with the intended investments, 
as the regulator has made clear.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr R under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mr Rs funds would be invested. I note that Portafina has 
said that it became the servicing agent for Mr Rs SIPP some years later and it has ensured 
that his investments from then on were suitable. But I dont think that means it isnt 
responsible for the investments made before then. And, as I will go on to explain, I dont 
think Portafinas assessment of Mr Rs ATR was correct, so I dont accept that the 
subsequent investments made on his behalf were necessarily suitable.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr R. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr R to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording: 
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.  
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mr Rs objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Rs funds were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr R would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible. 
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined 
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind. 
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Rs transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated  
and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw 
no issue with this. 
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within the SIPP, it 
shouldnt have offered advice on the pension transfer at all. So, in the absence of Portafina 
knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mr R, it couldnt in my view provide him with 
suitable advice to transfer his OPS. I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As  
Mr Rs appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Rs best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Rs funds would be invested. 
Portafina said that as part of its due diligence it carried out on Firm C, it requested details of 
the investment strategy it was likely to deploy for clients with an adventurous ATR, such as 
Mr R. And this was reflected in the SR where it set out what spread of investments it thought 
would be suitable for Mr R, as follows:
Cash 10%
Equities 75%
Secured Structured Bonds 15%
But I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in the alerts. The checks 
it made weren't specific to the investments envisaged for Mr R. So, I still think Portafina 
needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the expected 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr R. It needed, at the very least, to ask 
Firm C for an outline of that proposition. Portafina couldnt reasonably assess the suitability 
of the transfer it was recommending without doing so. 
Portafina says the asset allocation table outlined its expectations as to the types and blend 
of investments to be recommended by Firm C, so its advice to Mr R was not given in 
ignorance of the likely investments strategy. But I dont think it was sufficient for Portafina 
simply to recommend a broad spread of investments in its SR for Mr R in the expectation 
that that would bring about the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment 
recommendations. Further, I do not agree that broad references to investment classes, such 
as equities and secured structured bonds, would give consumers in the position of Mr R 
sufficient information to enable them to spot discrepancies. 
Further, I should add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess the 
suitability of the transfer by merely recommending potential investments into broad asset 
classes, with no further steps taken to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, 
I dont think the asset allocation set out in the table would in any event have been suitable 
for Mr R. I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 15% of the pension fund 
should be invested in secure structured bonds. These are described in the SR as asset 
backed debt securities that are issued for a fix term. The SR goes on to explain that these 
are not covered by the FSCS. And that there are credit risks  due to the possibility of the 
company borrowing the money going into default  and liquidity risks. 
In my view, this puts the secure structured bonds at the higher end of the risk spectrum and 
would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 15% of 
Mr Rs pension fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a 
client in Mr Rs position in any event. 
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Rs ATR as adventurous  Ill explain why 
later  or its recommendation he invest 15% of his remaining funds in structured bonds in  
the SR. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr R. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and it transpired that the investment proposition of Firm C was unsuitable for Mr R, then I wouldve 
expected Portafina to have advised Mr R that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from 
his OPS in those circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr R against investing in line with 
Firm Cs proposal, I think its more likely than not that Mr R wouldve listened to it and not 
gone ahead with the transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr R when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer, meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the advice to transfer was suitable. And as a result of these 
shortcomings, it seems to me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to 
do as it wished with how Mr Rs SIPP was invested. 
The advice to transfer
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Rs funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mr R wouldve become vulnerable to unsuitable investment advice.
OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a  
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.  
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances. 
Portafina recommended that Mr Rs transfer out of his OPS to a SIPP for the following main 
reasons:
to access his TFC at age 55 to improve his financial situation;
to retire later than his OPSs normal retirement age of 65;
due to concerns with the OPS transfer value and funding position; and
to maximise death benefits.
But as per the above rules and guidance, the transfer needed to be in Mr Rs best interests 
and any advantages of transferring shouldve outweighed the disadvantages of giving up the 
guaranteed benefits.
When a firm considers recommending a client transfers out of a defined benefit scheme, the 
regulator requires it to carry out a calculation to establish the investment performance 
required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available from the transferring 
scheme. This is known as the critical yield.Portafina completed a pension transfer value analysis report which showed that a critical 
yield of 16.6% (which later increased to 17.2%) per year was required to match benefits from 
the OPS if Mr R retired at 60. This reduced to 13.9% if he took the maximum tax-free cash. 
And while it appears to take account of the initial and ongoing adviser charges, it does not 
make any allowance for the plan, fund or any other ongoing charges. This meant the growth 
needed just to match the benefits being given up was most likely understated. Furthermore, 
the critical yield noted was only to match the OPS benefits. To gain any advantage the 
actual growth rate would need to be higher. Like the adjudicator, I think the growth required 
to provide an increase in benefits for Mr R was too high to make the transfer viable. 
The advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time, the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even if the SIPP had achieved the highest maximum 
projected growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr R would receive a higher pension at 
retirement as a result of transferring. 
In the SR, Portafina gave its own estimates of growth that Mr R could expect, which it said 
was 7.76% per year. This was based on Mr Rs adventurous ATR, which I think was too high 
in any event, as I will explain later. 
Portafina instead based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate, which it said was 
6.41%, rather than the critical yield. It did this because it assumed Mr R wouldnt purchase 
an annuity with his fund and would instead take his benefits via income drawdown. The 
guidance under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portafina should:
1. take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
Having considered this carefully, Im not satisfied that using the hurdle rate was appropriate 
in Mr Rs case. Firstly, the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth required to match the 
starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without a spouses pension being 
included. Mr Rs OPS provided a 50% dependants pension and a childrens pension  the 
amount paid would depend on how many children and whether or not a dependents pension 
was also payable  and each of those benefits escalated in retirement. So the hurdle rate 
didnt replicate the benefits Mr R was giving up, which, as can be seen from the above 
guidance, was what the regulator wanted businesses to do when comparing schemes.
Mr R was aged 54 at the time the advice was given, so he had around 13 years before he 
thought he wanted to retire, which according to the SR was age 67. I dont think Portafina, or 
Mr R, could say with any certainty 13 years before he planned to retire that he was definitely 
going to take his benefits via income drawdown. Mr Rs financial situation was poor at the 
time of the advice; he had health issues, he was unemployed, he was living off state benefits 
and had no savings. So, I think in those circumstances a secure guaranteed income in 
retirement wouldve been more suitable for him than placing his entire retirement funds at 
risk. Im therefore satisfied that the appropriate growth rate to use was the critical yield figure 
of 13.9% at the pension age of 60, as I think its clear Mr R wouldve wanted to take TFC 
rather than the full pension. And given his finances, there was little confidence of him not accessing additional funds beyond the next five or so years. So, it seems unreasonable to 
use the hurdle rate when comparing the OPS benefits with the SIPP.
In the SR Portafina stated Firm C would provide its investment recommendations. But 
without having an understanding of Mr Rs proposed investment strategy, I dont think 
Portafina were in a position to know whether the transfer advice was suitable. But even 
without knowing Firm Cs proposed investments, the critical yield was far above the growth 
Portafina said Mr R could expect if he invested in line with the suggested model portfolio in 
its SR. And as explained above, it was also greater than the highest of the regulators 
assumed future growth rates. For this reason, I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the OPS at retirement, as a result of transferring his 
OPS. And I dont think that was at all made clear to Mr R in the SR, which actually gave him 
the impression he would obtain increased pension benefits as a result of transferring. 
The critical yield isnt the only factor that needed to be taken into account when assessing 
whether Mr R should transfer his benefits. Consideration also had to be given to his ATR, 
which was assessed as being adventurous. This assessment was arrived at following 
completion of a risk attitude profiling questionnaire (RPQ). Having considered the 
information provided, I dont think Mr Rs ATR could be fairly described as being 
adventurous. 
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 2011 about assessing suitability, about how firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish their clients ATR. The FCA said that firms should have a robust process 
for assessing the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes assessing their 
capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer responses to questions and not 
attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for purpose 
with any limitations recognised and mitigated. 
Ive reviewed the information gathered by Portafina at the time. This includes the fact-find, 
the RPQ, the call recording of the discussion between Mr R and the Portafina paraplanner 
and the SR. But it seems to me that Portafinas assessment of his ATR was mostly based on 
the outcome of the RPQ giving him a score of 76, which equated to adventurous. 
I dont think that was reasonable or in line with the FCAs guidance. As my starting point, the 
RPQ confirmed that Mr R had little experience (if any) of investing in stocks and shares, yet 
he felt comfortable investing in the stockmarket, he was willing to take substantial financial 
risk to earn substantial rewards, he associated the word risk with the idea of opportunity 
and he found investment matters easy to understand. Yet in the call with the paraplanner, 
which Ive listened to, he said that he wanted safety, he was unwilling to accept any 
reduction in benefits, and he didnt want his pension to run out. Furthermore, the fact-find 
stated that he wasnt willing to accept a reduction in his pension in order to gain control of it. 
In Portafinas SR, an adventurous investor was described as follows:
Adventurous investors typically have high levels of financial knowledge and keep up to date 
on financial issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who have used a range on 
investment products in the past, and who may take an active approach to managing their 
investments. 
In general. Adventurous investors are happy to take on investment risk and understand that 
this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are willing to take risk with most 
of their available assets. Adventurous investors will readily take gambles where they see the potential rewards as 
being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds on financial matters 
quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions turn out badly, they are able 
to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment.
Mr Rs background, preferences and lack of experience were clearly at odds with an 
adventurous ATR. In my view, I think his ATR was at most low. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me that Mr Rs OPS benefits constituted the vast majority of his assets and he 
wouldve been reliant on them for his future retirement. A loss to those benefits wouldve had 
a big impact on his future income. As Ive said above, Mr R wasnt working and was 
receiving state benefits, he had health issues, had no savings and his only other pension 
provision was his state pension, but this was assumed. Its clear to me that given Mr Rs 
circumstances, his capacity for loss was extremely limited. And this shouldve played a 
significant role in determining his ATR, which in my view, could be no more than low.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Portafina to recommend Mr R transfer his OPS 
benefits. He wouldve needed to take substantially more risk than he was prepared to take or 
was able to absorb by transferring, and the unreasonably high critical yield meant that he 
was most likely going to be substantially financially worse off. This ought to have been made 
clear to him.
I also think Mr Rs objectives have been exaggerated. Portafina says that Mr R wanted to 
access his TFC to get back on his feet. But Portafina gave no credible analysis of how this 
would be achieved  it didnt seek to quantify or understand his capital and income needs. 
Based on what I know, Mr R seemed to be getting by and Ive seen no evidence of any 
debts that needed to be repaid. Mr R has also told us that at the time he was actively 
seeking a new job. As such, his financial difficulties may have been short-lived. And I think 
the adviser ought to have borne this in mind before considering recommending Mr R transfer 
his OPS benefits, which would have a lasting impact on his future retirement. So, overall, Im 
not persuaded that Mr R needed access to the TFC. Instead, I think this was a nice to have 
facilitated by Portafinas advice. 
Portafina also didnt explore alternatives to how Mr Rs objectives could be met, for instance, 
by taking early retirement from the OPS, which was available from age 55 without consent. 
Portafina dismissed this option by saying that the penalties would be high, but didnt 
substantiate this. But, although we dont know because Portafina didnt explore it, this 
couldve been a suitable alternative to Mr R. Portafina shouldnt have said that he would be 
penalised without checking how his pension would be affected and how this compared with 
the benefit of Mr R receiving his pension income five years early. It shouldve also explored 
how this wouldve affected his State benefits and his finances, but it didnt. 
Mr R has said that his state benefits were reduced because of taking money from his SIPP. 
Portafina knew this was a potential problem because the declaration it asked Mr R to sign 
said that he should discuss this with his benefits office. But I dont think this was good 
enough. Portafina had an overriding duty to act in Mr Rs best interests, so I think it 
shouldve clarified the situation here and explained the implications to Mr R.
Portafina also says that the funding position of the OPS had to be taken into consideration, 
as this was a concern to Mr R. But Ive seen nothing credible that raised sufficient concern 
about the schemes security that would justify such a loss of guarantees and high probability 
of financial loss by transferring the OPS benefits.
Portafina says that Mr R wanted to improve his death benefits. I acknowledge Mr R was in 
ill-health, but he was divorced with no apparent dependants. And during the call with the paraplanner, Mr R said he wasnt bothered if death benefits would be better by transferring. 
So, I dont think this objective was of particular importance to him. And even if it was, the 
OPS offered a dependants pension that wasnt limited to a legal spouse but again, this 
wasnt made clear to him. So, I dont think Mr R wanting enhanced death benefits was a 
genuine objective that needed to be addressed.
For the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded the advice to transfer his OPS was 
suitable for Mr R. And if suitable advice had been provided, Im persuaded he wouldve 
remained in his OPS. Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina, 
Mr R would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would have. While Mr R did appear to want 
access to the TFC, he was withdrawing the funds on the understanding that he would not be 
any worse off in retirement by doing so. It was even implied that by taking his TFC at that 
point he would still have a larger pension fund in retirement. 
Had Mr R been appropriately advised and made aware of how much he stood to lose by 
transferring, I think its more likely that he would have chosen to stay with his OPS. As a 
professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr R from proceeding with the transfer and withdrawing TFC. I accept its 
possible Mr R may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against this, that would have made him think about things.
Ive thought about the fact that Firm C provided Mr R with investment advice. Although Mr R 
didnt invest in UCIS, I agree with the adjudicators view that it is fair to hold Portafina fully 
responsible for his loss. I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in 
a business relationship in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to 
bring about a single outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because 
Firm C wasnt authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr R to Portafina.
Portafina advised Mr R to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing 
pension benefits to be transferred. Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit its 
advice to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed 
investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr R on them. It was only as a result of 
Portafinas involvement that Mr R transferred the funds held in his OPS to the SIPP. 
Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds 
being transferred first; if that hadnt happened, Mr R couldnt have invested as he 
did. So, in my view, the entirety of his loss stems from Portafinas unsuitable advice to 
transfer away from his OPS.
Portafina argues that any redress awarded to Mr R should take account of the compensation 
Mr R could obtain from the FSCS by complaining about Firm Cs investment 
recommendations. It doesnt appear Mr R has approached the FSCS. But I am aware that, 
as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on claims where it is aware that another firm 
was involved in the transaction, and it considers that firm might also be responsible for a 
consumers losses. This means that apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina could 
risk leaving Mr R out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying 
Portafina is wholly responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in 
liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is 
responsible for the losses Mr R suffered in transferring his existing benefits to the SIPP and 
investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of 
the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R could 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision. 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  
Portafina to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portafina should pay Mr R £300 for disruption to his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr R the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr R the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr R may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman