DRN-2180320
The complaint
Mrs B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1997 Mrs B bought PPI during a meeting, at the same time as she applied for a mortgage. 
The policy gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. She paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to take 
it out. Mrs B says she took the mortgage out at a young age and felt pressured to take PPI, 
she paid not knowing what it was or that it was optional. The bank disputes this, saying its 
more likely than not that the features of the cover and the optional nature were verbally 
explained in good time before the sale concluded. I cant know what was said in the meeting 
and Halifax no longer has Mrs Bs paperwork from the sale, or any sample documents. But 
thats not surprising as it was over 20 years ago. Ive thought carefully about Mrs Bs 
comments, but I also have to take into account how long ago the meeting was and how that 
might affect what she recalls. I havent been able to find any other evidence to support her 
claim that she was pressured.
Overall, without stronger evidence I cant fairly uphold Mrs Bs complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs B and I think it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs B was entitled to around three 
months pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits 
for up to 12 months for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave her up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. 
Mrs B was borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on her home. Given how 
serious the effects of not keeping up with her mortgage repayments could have been, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mrs B if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job. 
And as she was paying monthly, she could cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it 
without incurring any further cost. I note she wrote to cancel the policy and it seems the last 
premium was paid in 1998. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs B all the information she needed before she decided to 
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical 
conditions or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better 
information wouldve changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman