DRN-4474422
The complaint
Mr D complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined his motor 
warranty claim. 
What happened
Mr Ds car developed a fault. It required a replacement engine. He claimed against his Red 
Sands motor warranty. After considering the evidence and opinion of its engineer Red Sands 
declined the claim. It felt the loss was caused by wear and tear  something excluded by the 
policy.   
In April 2023 Mr D complained. He didnt accept the breakdown to be the result of wear and 
tear. He felt this was supported by the car having mileage of only 18,000 and a 
comprehensive service history. Red Sands responded to Mr Ds complaint that the 
breakdown was the result of wear and tear. It said there was insufficient evidence of a 
sudden mechanical failure  as required for the policy to pay out. So it continued to decline 
the claim. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He doesnt accept the cause to be wear and 
tear. He says this isnt supported by the cars regular, manufacturing servicing and low 
mileage. To resolve his complaint he would like his claim to be paid. 
Our Investigator was more persuaded by comments from Mr Ds repairing garage, the 
service history and low mileage than Red Sands engineer. So he was of the opinion there 
was a sudden mechanical breakdown  rather than the cause being wear and tear. So he 
recommended Red Sands accept the claim in line with the policy terms. He also felt it should 
pay Mr D £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
M D accepted that outcome. Red Sands didnt. It didnt accept there had been a mechanical 
breakdown. So the complaint was passed to me, as an Ombudsman, for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr D or Red Sands provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
The terms for the warranty provided by Red Sands state it covers all mechanical and 
electrical parts (including labour costs to fit them) against mechanical breakdown. 
Mechanical breakdown is defined by the warranty as  the failure of a part, causing it to 
suddenly stop working, for a reason other than negligence. 
Mr Ds repairer diagnosed the problem as a big end bearing failure on the crankshaft. So Im 
satisfied there was failure of a part. And having considered the evidence I think its most 
likely the failure caused the part to suddenly stop working, for a reason other than 
negligence.
Mr D described the car as running perfectly. Then when driven a few miles a couple of days 
later it suddenly made a very loud noise. That prompted him to have it recovered to a 
garage. 
The car, although ten years old, had less than 20,000 miles on the clock. I wouldnt expect a 
big end bearing, on this model, to fail due to wear at such low mileage. Theres nothing to 
support poor maintenance, or negligence, being the cause of the part failing earlier than 
expected. Instead records show the car being regularly serviced.
Ive considered Red Sands engineers description of pitting and scoring on bearing shells. 
But Im persuaded by Mr Ds repairers comments. He described the breakdown as a 
mechanical failure. He said, as an experienced repairer of the cars manufacturers engines, 
he ruled out wear and tear. 
Those comments, along with the low mileage and service history, make me think there was 
most likely a mechanical breakdown, as defined by the warranty, rather than the cause being 
wear and tear. 
Red Sands hasnt referred to any other policy term to refuse the claim. So, rather than 
require it to reconsider, Im going to require it to settle. 
The policy has a claim limit of £10,000. Mr D says the repairs cost him more than that. So on 
evidence of Mr D having paid for the repairs Red Sands will need to reimburse him £10,000. 
I havent seen evidence of a policy excess. But if there is one Red Sands can apply it the 
total paid for repairs. It shouldnt apply it to the policys claim limit.    
As Mr Ds been without funds because of Red Sands failure to settle his claim fairly it will 
need to apply simple interest at 8%. This will be applied from the date he paid the invoice to 
date of settlement.
It will also need to pay him £100 compensation. Thats in recognition of the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. That includes having to sell items to fund the 
repairs and deal with this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must:
on receipt of evidence Mr D paid for the repairs reimburse him £10,000. It will need to 
add simple interest at 8% - applicable from the date the invoice was paid until the 
date of settlement* and
pay him £100 compensation.
*If Red Sands considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman