DRN-2735279
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the way shes been treated by Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) 
and its decision to decline her claim.
What happened
Miss S is a member of her employers group income protection policy. The policy pays a 
proportion of her income, if she is incapacitated and unable to work. 
In June 2019 Miss S was signed off from her role as an Analyst. She was diagnosed with 
anxiety and she remains absent from work. Miss S medical records show she was 
prescribed sertraline a few months before her absence, which she continues to take. And 
she is seen regularly by her GP who says she is not fit for work. Miss S also undertakes 
regular talking therapy sessions with a psychologist. 
Following advice from her employer, in November Miss S made her claim on her policy for 
her loss of earnings. But she was understandably concerned about the prospect of her 
medical notes being shared with her employer, so initially she didnt provide consent on her 
claim form. 
As her employer is the policy holder this meant AGS declined the claim. So Miss S went on 
to provide her consent and AGS assessed her claim for incapacity. 
AGS declined the claim again because it said the medical evidence said Miss S was 
suffering from work related stress and this was preventing her from working, rather than an 
illness. So, Miss S didnt meet the definition of incapacity. 
 
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at 
what had happened. He said the medical evidence provided suggested work was the only 
trigger of Miss S symptoms, so it wasnt enough to show Miss S was unable to work due to 
an illness. Therefore, it was fair for AGS to decline the claim on that basis.
Miss S disagreed with his findings. She said she had been actively encouraged by her 
employer to submit a claim under its income protection policy so she must be eligible. She 
also argued AGS had unfairly declined her claim because she has been diagnosed with 
anxiety, which is a recognised illness. 
AGS said Miss S anxiety is caused by the workplace stress. And the medical evidence 
suggests she is still functionally capable of performing her occupation. 
The case has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AGS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a
claim unreasonably. 
It is for Miss S to demonstrate that she meets the definition of incapacity in order to make a 
successful claim. The policy defines incapacity as;
As a result of illness or injury the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other work or
occupation.
Miss S was concerned about the prospect of her medical notes being shared with her 
employer, so initially she didnt provide consent on her claim form. I can understand why 
Miss S wanted to seek clarification on whether it was just HR who would have access to her 
private and sensitive personal information. But I think it was reasonable for AGS to be 
unable to move forward with the claim on that basis because this is a group policy which was 
arranged and administered through Miss Ss employer who is the policy holder.
Miss S feelings toward her work are well documented throughout her medical records since 
2019. She regularly reports feeling significantly stressed, overworked and unsupported by 
her manager. And I note Miss S received a low performance rating and was asked to attend 
a capability meeting, shortly before she became absent from work.
Im persuaded that the problems Miss S experienced at work are what caused her to feel 
unwell and ultimately led her to need to take time off, rather than a health related illness. Ill 
explain why. 
Miss Ss first occupational health report explains the previous year has been 
particularly busy for Miss S and shes found herself becoming tense at work. She 
also reports experiencing physical symptoms such as headache, nausea, stomach 
upset and palpitations on the way to work. And she started suffering work-related 
nightmares. 
By September, whilst off work, Miss S reported experiencing panic attacks when 
having to deal with any work emails or travel into the City near her place of work. And 
she was still troubled by work-related nightmares which get worse as she thinks 
about a return to work. Miss S has said her greatest fear is to go back to work and 
the same stress related issues starting again. And I can see from the medical notes 
Miss S herself often refers to her condition as work -related stress. 
Miss S says she often was often left on her own to cover and frequently worked 
beyond contracted hours. I can appreciate this would have been stressful and is 
likely what caused her to feel so fatigued. 
On all the occupational health reports, the recorded medical opinion states Miss S is 
suffering from anxiety triggered by work-related stress.
The vocational rehabilitation consultant refers to the primary barrier to Miss S return 
to work is her stressful work environment. So they were requesting options to work in 
a different environment for the same employer. 
So I think it was reasonable for AGS to say that the work-related issues have caused Miss S 
to become unwell and decline the claim, because theres no benefit payable for that reason.
 AGS also disagreed Miss S is unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her 
insured occupation. This is because the medical evidence shows a change in Miss S 
working environment would improve her condition which suggests she is still functionally 
capable of performing her insured occupation at her current employer, but would require 
adjustments to alleviate some of the stress she is put under.  
In addition, I also note there isnt any medical evidence to show that if Miss S worked for a 
different employer as an Analyst, she would still be unable to work. The medical evidence is 
persuasive enough to suggest her symptoms are triggered and amplified by the stress and 
management issues in her current workplace  but not beyond that. As this policy isnt 
specific to Miss S occupation with her current employer, Miss S would need to demonstrate 
she is unable to work in her role as an Analyst for any employer, due to illness. And she 
hasnt done that in this claim. 
I note Miss S comments in relation to her employer actively encouraging her to submit a 
claim. But it doesnt follow that those claims will be automatically accepted by the insurer. It 
is the insurers role to assess all the medical evidence to establish if the claim mis covered by 
the terms of their policy. And in this case Miss S didnt fulfil the definition of incapacity. 
In summary, Im persuaded its most likely Miss S would be capable of working and fulfilling 
the material duties of her occupation, should she not feel so over worked and unsupported 
by her management, because her anxiety wouldnt be triggered. And therefore, Im satisfied 
AGS has declined this claim fairly because Miss S does not meet the policy terms.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman