DRN-3223666
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds decision to reject 
a claim he made for storm damage under his home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr K made a claim to his insurer, RSA for damage to his home which he said 
was caused by a storm. The damage being claimed for was to walls and flooring from an 
ingress of water from rear patio doors. Mr K said heavy snow in storm conditions had 
built up and caused water damage when thawing. 
RSA declined Mr Ks claim. In October 2019 this service issued a final decision as Mr K 
brought his complaint to us. The ombudsman considered the three questions we ask 
when looking at storm damage claims. They decided that storm conditions had occurred 
and that the damage was consistent with what storm conditions might cause. But they 
didnt find there was sufficient evidence to say that the main cause of the damage Mr K 
claimed for was caused by a storm. So Mr Ks complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr K obtained further reports and sent these to RSA to reconsider his claim. RSA 
maintained its decision to decline Mr Ks claim. And so Mr K asked us to look at his new 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt find the new evidence persuasive in showing storm conditions 
were the main cause of the damage to Mr Ks home. So he didnt recommend Mr Ks 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr K didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions when considering a claim for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
The ombudsman in their final decision dated 4 October 2019 said the answer was yes 
to the first two questions. But they said there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the 
damage to the flooring and walls Mr K was claiming for was caused by a storm. So in 
response to the final question we ask; were storm conditions the main cause of 
damage?  the answer was no. For this reason the ombudsman didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. 
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether RSAs decision to reject Mr Ks claim 
for storm damage based on new evidence since October 2019 was reasonable. In doing 
so, I wont reconsider whether storm conditions occurred at the time  or whether the 
damage being claimed for is consistent with what a storm typically causes  as a final 
decision on these two points has already been made. 
So Ive looked at the new evidence Mr K has provided by way of a specialist report from 
May 2021 following a site inspection by a surveyor. This  along with a builders report 
from November 2019 is the information RSA has considered when deciding whether 
storm conditions were the main cause of damage. And Ive taken into account the 
original findings of the Loss Adjuster (LA) who inspected Mr Ks home in May 2018. 
In May 2018 the LA found that the damage to the flooring showed significant rot which 
they said had occurred over a prolonged period of time and not as a result of a one off 
insured event such as a storm. Photos provided by the LA support their view. 
In May 2021 a surveyor reported that damage to the property at ground floor level had 
been caused by an ingress of water from a storm. They reported that the thawing of 
heavy snow against the patio doors had caused sufficient hydrostatic pressure to 
penetrate the property below the patio doors.
The surveyor went to say that cause of cracking and debonding of cementitious render 
to both reveals of the rear patio door wasnt related to storm damage and instead 
caused by poor detailing in the render.
In response, RSA sought advice from an in house chartered builder. RSA said:
a film of water simply cannot have any hydrostatic pressure as it consists of 
water molecules that, by the nature of a film of water, very thin. Pressure comes 
from a body of water such that may build up behind an inadequately drained 
retaining wall.
Melting snow will generate no such pressure and melt water would dissipate 
vertically under gravity rather than laterally . Even if we divorced ourselves from 
reality for one moment and accepted that what has been described were 
possible, a one off ingress of water would simply not cause the issues seen. A 
one off ingress of a film of water even less so. The maintenance issues are 
consistent with long standing defects and we remain convinced that this claim 
has no merit.
Our investigator discussed the report with the surveyor who wrote it. The surveyor 
advised that he was instructed to investigate the render at both reveals  and was 
advised by Mr K that the claim for internal damage to the flooring had been accepted by 
RSA. This is supported by the surveyors confirmation of this within their report. So the surveyor didnt make a finding that the main cause of damage to the flooring was 
caused by a storm. He understood this had already been determined.
Mr K says the surveyor has now retired and so he cant ask him to provide further 
information to assist with his claim. He feels RSA should reimburse him for the cost of 
obtaining the report for the poor service Mr K feels it provided.
But based on what Ive seen, the new information isnt enough to demonstrate that the 
main cause of the damage to Mr Ks home was due to a one off storm event in 2018. 
The information available from the LAs report in 2018 shows that the severity and extent 
of the rotting to the flooring occurred over a prolonged period of time and not as a result 
of an insured event. As Mr Ks policy with RSA excludes cover for damage caused by 
rot, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably in maintaining its decision to decline his 
claim. I dont think the surveyor report provided in May 2021 supports Mr Ks claim. And 
so I dont think RSA needs to reimburse Mr K for the costs of the report. 
I understand Mr K will be disappointed. But having considered the new information, Im 
not asking RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman