DRN-1556048
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with his declined home 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C held a home insurance policy with Aviva. The policy terms explained the policy would 
cover:
5. Water escaping from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating systems.
The policy also said it would not cover damage which happens gradually faulty or 
unsuitable materials or design or workmanship. 
In August 2019 Mr C contacted Aviva following a leak in his bathroom. The surveyor 
informed Mr C that his claim wouldnt be covered due to the defects present and the 
damage occurring over a period of time.
Mr C contacted the surveyor to discuss this outcome. The surveyors call notes recorded PH 
called back went through P&S but little point as he wants it to go through FOS. 
Mr C contacted Aviva to discuss his claim on 29 August. During this call the case handler 
apologised for Mr Cs disappointment with the outcome of his claim. She also explained I do 
agree with the decline of the claim but not necessarily on basis [surveyor] has put to me 
the reason the claim should be declined is because it doesnt fall within the cover on the 
policy, what we cover is leak from fixed pipe.., say a water tank we dont deal with it if it 
goes through a seal 
Mr C asked for his complaint about the declined claim to be escalated to a manager. Mr C 
received a final response letter dated 11 September saying that the claim had been declined 
as the policy didnt cover damage which happens gradually faulty or unsuitable materials 
or design or workmanship. Mr C complained to Aviva about this letter as it also said Aviva 
had tried to contact him, but this attempt hadnt been made. 
Mr C spoke to an Aviva rep on 24 September. He was told the wording about trying to 
contact him in the final response letter had been included in error. The Aviva rep apologised 
for this. Mr C was also told that his claim had been correctly declined, and he was provided 
with referral rights for the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mr C contacted this service unhappy with the way Aviva had dealt with his claim. Mr C said 
the surveyor had laughed at him, and the reason for the claim being declined hadnt been 
clearly explained. Mr C also referred to the incorrect information provided in the final 
response letter which suggested Aviva had tried to contact him, when they hadnt. The 
investigator didnt think that the surveyor was as professional as wed expect when 
communicating the decline outcome, and recommended Aviva apologise for the way Mr C 
was spoken to.I wrote to both parties on 5 March 2020 saying that on balance there wasnt enough 
evidence to say that the surveyor had been unprofessional, based on the call note. Mr C 
responded to these findings saying that there were other errors in the way the claim had 
been handled. Mr C referred to the call with the Aviva rep on 24 September, and the error in 
the letter sent to him before this. Ive considered these points, but my decision on the 
outcome remains unchanged. Ive responded to the further comments made by Mr C in this 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Aviva need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Communication from surveyor
Mr C is unhappy with the way the surveyor spoke to him when the outcome of his clam was 
communicated. Mr C says the surveyor laughed at him. As this call took place with the 
surveyor on his mobile, Aviva have been unable to provide a call recording. The notes 
recorded by the surveyor show PH [policyholder] called back went through P&S but little 
point as he wants it to go to FOS.
Although I accept that its likely this conversation didnt go the way Mr C was hoping for, I 
dont think theres enough evidence to say that the surveyor was unprofessional. I 
understand Mr C feels strongly that the surveyor laughed at him. I can appreciate this 
wouldve caused upset to Mr C, in addition to the anxiety he mustve already been feeling 
waiting for the outcome of his claim. But with the evidence available I dont think it would be 
fair to say that Aviva have done something wrong. So I dont think it would be fair to ask 
them to apologise for this complaint.
Error in final response letter 
Mr C says that he received a letter dated 11 September 2019 which said I have tried to 
contact you today by telephone. But when he questioned the Aviva rep on 24 September, 
the Aviva rep confirmed this information had been added in error. The Aviva rep went on to 
say That is an error, and I apologise for that, I do apologise for sending that out to you, I 
shouldve taken that out
I dont doubt that it mustve been frustrating for Mr C to receive a response to his complaint, 
with the opening paragraph including an error. But I think the apology from the Aviva rep was 
a fair response to this error. So I dont think Aviva need to do anything more in settlement of 
this complaint.
Communication of the declined claim
Theres no dispute that the damage claimed by Mr C wasnt covered by his home insurance 
policy. Mr C is unhappy with the information given to him by Aviva about the reason for his 
claim being declined. I accept Mr Cs comments that he was provided with conflicting 
information about why his claim had been declined.The surveyor indicated that the damage wouldnt be covered as it had occurred over a 
period of time. However the case handler on 29 August 2019 explained that the reason for 
the claim being declined was because it doesnt fall within the cover on the policy. Soon 
after this Mr C received a letter saying that the claim had been declined as the policy didnt 
cover damage which happens gradually
When Mr C spoke to an Aviva rep on 24 September, he tried to explain the inconsistencies 
in what hed been told about the reason for his claim being declined. He said I had someone 
from Aviva saying the reason I was given for the rejection of my claim was incorrect. 
However the Aviva rep told Mr C Theres certainly no notes on file that that information was 
given to you, the damage has been on-going for a period of time and unfortunately thats not 
covered by your policy.
I can appreciate that Mr C wouldve been caused confusion about why his claim had been 
declined. Ive checked Mr Cs policy terms, and I can see that both terms are included within 
the policy. And the outcome for Mr Cs claim wouldve been the same regardless of the 
policy term relied on by Aviva when declining the claim. However I would expect Aviva to 
provide consistent information about the reason for a claim being declined. 
In this case although I agree Aviva couldve done more to ensure their communication with 
Mr C was clear, but I think the apologies offered by Aviva during the claims process go far 
enough in recognising that they couldve handled things better. 
During the call with the case handler on 29 August, the case handler apologised to Mr C in 
excess of nine times over a 24 minute call. The Aviva call rep on 24 September also 
apologised for the incorrect information in the letter. Theres no doubt that the 
communication with Mr C throughout his claim couldve been clearer. But Ive also 
considered that both reasons for declining the claim were in line with Mr Cs policy terms. 
From everything Ive seen, I dont think its an appropriate outcome in the circumstances to 
ask Aviva to issue a formal apology to Mr C at this time. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman