DRN-3896250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited [RSA] 
handled a claim they made on their buildings insurance policy following a leak under their 
driveway.
What happened
Mr S has led the complaint with this Service so Ive mainly referred to him throughout. 
RSA is the underwriter of the buildings insurance policy i.e. it is the insurer. Part of the 
complaint concerns the actions of its agents which RSA has accepted accountability for. 
References I make to RSA includes the actions of its agent. 
Mr S owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
RSA. 
Mr S noticed his driveway was waterlogged and initially reported this under his home 
emergency insurance but the contractor was unable to deal with the problem. So, 
Mr S reported it to RSA to make a claim on his buildings insurance policy.
RSA explained the policy included cover for drainage issues but it would need to 
appoint a specialist to investigate the cause of damage before it could confirm the 
claim was covered under one of the insured perils.
RSA appointed a specialist agent and it investigated the cause of the damage. It 
concluded it was as a result of wear and tear to pipework with signs repairs had been 
completed previously and the pipes were at the end of their lifespan. It declined the 
claim as damage caused by wear and tear was excluded under the policy terms.
When the claim was declined, Mr S says he asked the contractors not to do anything 
further. The contractors said they undertook the repairs to the drains and Mr S paid 
privately but he disputed this and said they had undertaken the repairs without his 
consent and he hadnt paid them. 
The contractors refilled the hole but Mr S wasnt happy they did so with the original 
soil which he said was still waterlogged. Because of this, the final repairs to the 
driveway were left unfinished while the dispute was ongoing. 
Mr S complained to RSA about the decline of the claim and said hed been told it 
would be covered. RSA said it had explained in the claim call it would need to 
appoint experts to consider the claim before confirming it was covered under the 
policy. It maintained the decline of the claim due to the wear and tear exclusion. 
So, Mr S raised a complaint with this Service. He broadly accepted the claim wasnt 
covered under the policy terms but was unhappy as he said he was led to believe it 
was. He said hed only agreed to the drive being dug up because of this belief and he 
was unhappy with how it had been dealt with by RSAs contractor. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as she said RSA had been clear it 
would need to investigate before confirming the claim was covered. She 
acknowledged Mr Ss concerns about the way the repairs had been undertaken but 
she was satisfied RSA confirmed its contractor wouldnt undertake work which would 
damage the pipes. 
She said if Mr S was unhappy with the proposals to complete the repairs to the drive, 
he could ask RSA to settle for what the contractor costs were. 
Mr S asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During his initial call to this Service, Mr S accepts the claim was not covered under the policy 
terms due to the wear and tear exclusion. He explained his main concerns were about 
RSAs misinformation about claim coverage and the investigation and work undertaken 
during and after this and so this is the focus of my decision.
The claim decline
Ive listened very carefully to the first call Mr S had with RSA when making the claim 
on the buildings insurance policy. RSA confirms there is cover under the policy for 
drainage issues but clearly explains that as its such a specialist area, it would need 
to appoint a drainage expert to investigate and confirm if the damage was covered 
under the policy. 
RSA has confirmed it has no prior calls relating to the buildings claim and this is 
consistent with the nature of the call I listened to.
Mr S has said he wouldnt have allowed RSAs contractor to dig up his driveway if he 
had known the claim wouldnt be covered. Given RSAs explanation it would need to 
investigate to confirm coverage, it seems to me, on balance, its more likely than not 
Mr S would have agreed as it was the only way he would know if he would receive 
settlement of his claim. 
Overall, I didnt hear anything which led me to believe RSA provided misleading 
information about whether the claim would be covered.
The investigation work
While reviewing this part of the complaint, Ive kept in mind, as theres no cover 
under the policy for this claim, RSA isnt under an obligation to repair the cause of the 
leak or the subsequent damage and its responsibilities are not as extensive as they 
would be if the claim was covered.
The leak has been repaired and theres some disagreement about whether Mr S paid 
the contractor privately to do this or not  he said he didnt pay; the contractor said he 
did. From the evidence Ive seen its not clear to me exactly what happened but for 
the purposes of this decision Im not persuaded that makes a material difference 
anyway. I say that as what is clear is that the repairs werent undertaken under the 
contract of insurance at the heart of this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained 
previously. 
Mr S says the contractor undertook a poor quality, quick fix repair of the leak which 
wont last and theres no guarantee he wont have problems again in the future but Ive not seen anything to support this. And as Mr S wasnt entitled to any repair under 
the policy its not something I would find RSA responsible for anyway as any repair 
that happened was outside the contract of insurance and Mr S would always have 
been responsible for its cost.
Mr S was unhappy with the way RSA filled in the hole after the investigations were 
complete. He said it shouldnt have refilled the hole with the soil it had initially 
removed as this was waterlogged. I see from the evidence, the contractor noted they 
would need to return once the ground had dried out to complete the reinstatement of 
the driveway. So, Im satisfied the contractor was cognisant of its responsibilities 
when refilling the hole before re-laying the concrete surface. RSA has confirmed its 
contractor wouldnt undertake any work that could cause damage to the pipework 
and Ive not been given any evidence to suggest its approach would do so. 
Our Investigator suggested Mr S could ask RSA for a cash settlement to the extent of 
the contractors costs if he remained unhappy with its proposed approach to this. 
Mr S may wish to follow up this suggestion directly with RSA if he chooses. 
In summary, Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking RSA to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman