DRN-3370917
The complaint
Mr L says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) was responsible for giving 
him incorrect information about the processing time for taking benefits from his pension and 
handled his application too slowly. He says this means hes incurred a higher tax liability.
What happened
Mr L had been withdrawing benefits from his HL Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) for 
several years. Hed taken these through the Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum 
(UFPLS) mechanism. 
On 24 February 2021 Mr L rang HL to enquire about withdrawing benefits in the 2020/21 tax 
year. He asked about the turnaround time for processing his application. The adviser told 
him it should be turned around within 5-10 working days. She noted the heavy workload 
towards the end of the year and suggested he should send his paperwork by 12/13 March to 
be sure it was received and dealt with in time.
Mr Ls application was received by HL on 18 March 2021. It didnt review this until 30 March. 
When it did it noted he held protection safeguarding an entitlement to a higher lifetime 
allowance (LTA). As such it required him to provide further information. Mr L tried to ring HL 
but he couldnt get through. So he sent a secure message the same day, which HL 
confirmed it received. 
The tax-year for 2020/21 ended on Sunday 4 April 2021. Aware of this Mr L tried to contact 
HL on Friday 2 April to make sure his payment was made in time. He couldnt get through 
and when he did on Saturday 3 April he was told no-one was available to process payments 
that day. Mr Ls pension payment was made the following week into the 2021/22 tax year.
Mr L had a number of concerns about what happened, he said:
I requested a withdrawal of £28,320 calculated so that my total income in tax year 2020/21 
remained taxed at 20%. I applied for this with more than the 5-10 days before the tax year 
end, as advised by HL. However funds were not received in 2020/2021 as expected but on 7 
April 2021 in tax year 2021/2022. This means that my withdrawal will now be taxed at 40% 
rather than 20%, as I need to make a similar withdrawal in 2021/2022 for day to day living as 
part of my pension. HL also advised me to withdraw income each year from my SIPP, to 
avoid further taxation at 55% at a lifetime event, which will happen when I reach age 75, on 
the fund amount above my lifetime allowance at that time.
So Mr L was concerned not only about the effects of what he saw as HL failings on his 
immediate income tax liability, but also with regard to managing his future LTA position.
HL rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said its aim was to process UFPLS payments within 10 
working days of receipt of applications. His had been considered within this timeframe, but 
further information had been required. Effectively, receipt of this additional data wouldve 
started its clock again. So it was satisfied it had delivered on its service levels. Further it 
noted Mr L shouldve been aware of its requirements which had been clearly set out on the 
application form.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls case. She didnt think HL had done anything wrong. Mr 
L disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the regulation around transactions like those performed by HL for Mr L. The 
FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental 
obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to have due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
I think theres some merit in Mr Ls arguments. And I recognise his frustration about what 
happened. In terms of the service HL provided, I can see why the information he was 
provided in February 2021 gave him the impression his application would be turned around 
in 5-10 days.
However, HL told us:
the requirement for the LTA questions to be answered is usually picked up during the 
processing of the application which is completed by our Drawdown team. Our Pensions 
Helpdesk, who initiate sending the applications and do not process them, would not typically 
identify this requirement unless they decided to look through all of the clients 
communications with us previously to see that these questions had been required before. 
This is not standard process for agents speaking to clients by telephone.
While it wouldve been helpful to Mr L for HLs adviser to have pointed out that a person in 
his circumstances would need to provide additional information, I recognise the argument 
that its pension helpdesk wasnt there to provide tailored information to all callers. It appears to have been more of a transactional service. Decisions about service standards offered and 
process design are operational judgements for firms to make
Ive reviewed the application form HL sent Mr L on 26 February 2021. Clearly set out on the 
front page in the short Questions and Answers section it said:
Lifetime Allowance (£1,073,100). 
Once weve got your application, well need you to fill in an extra lifetime allowance form 
before proceeding with your application if youve confirmed any of the following:
-Theres a possibility that the total value of all your pensionswill exceed the lifetime 
allowance.
-You have registered for pension protection against the lifetime allowance
So if any of these points apply to you, please call us on and well arrange for a form to be 
sent out to you.
I think the application form, which Mr L received in good time, was clear that in his 
circumstances further information would be required.
Im also mindful that this was not the first time Mr L had made an application for a UFPLS. I 
can see for example that in 2020 and 2019 he had sought to withdraw pension benefits in 
the same way. On each occasion there was a follow-up request from HL for further 
information related to his LTA. 
I note that in 2020 the period between HL receiving the LTA information it required and 
payment being made was six days. If it had met that timescale in 2021 Mr L wouldve again 
missed the tax year he was targeting.
Turning to the period between when Mr L had provided the further information HL required 
on 30 March 2021 and when it processed his application. Given it knew matters were time 
sensitive, I can understand why Mr L thought it shouldve been watching for his further 
submission and then have prioritised his application. There still seemed plenty of time for it 
to be actioned for the 2020/21 tax year.
HL says Mr L signed to say he was aware of the Drawdown Key Features on his application 
form. And in this it clearly stated that: 
Assuming there are no outstanding requirements, your drawdown account will usually be 
set up, and any tax-free cash paid, within 10 working days from the date we receive your 
application.
I appreciate Mr L is frustrated by the service he received from HL. Ive no doubt he wanted 
the pension payment he applied for to register in the 2020/21 tax year. And that he now 
faces a tax bill which is higher than it might otherwise have been. But the service HL holds 
out to customers is a matter for it.
Im mindful that HL didnt guarantee something to Mr L that it failed to deliver. The events 
complained about happened as the end of the tax year was approaching  clearly a busy 
time of the year. HL had obligations not only towards Mr L but also all its other customers. 
HL provided Mr L with clear information on its application form about its requirements. And I 
cant see it operated outside its service standard. Mr L also had prior experience of these 
matters. 
On balance, I cant reasonably conclude from the evidence available to me in this case that 
HL has done something wrong for which it needs to compensate Mr L.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman