DRN-3700199
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, didnt give him support when he found 
his credit card unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B held an Aqua credit card between July 2014 and August 2019. Mr B says he found it 
difficult to make his monthly repayments from the start and, as he couldnt afford to make his 
monthly repayments, he found it necessary to take out his first payday loan in 2015. 
Mr B says he started to get further and further behind, and his annual interest and fees 
became higher than his £900 credit limit. In addition, he struggled for four years and, in that 
period, received overlimit reminders, arrears letters and overdue payment reminders.
Mr B managed to pay off his account in full and close it in 2019. However, he complained to 
Aqua that he wasnt offered any support in the above-mentioned four-year period, such as 
freezing interest and charges or a repayment plan, as this would have helped him get back 
within the limit of the account. Mr B requested Aqua refund all interest and charges incurred 
from September 2014, plus 8% interest. Aqua couldnt see they had done anything wrong 
and declined Mr Bs request.  
Mr B complained to our service and our investigators view was that Aqua had acted fairly 
and reasonably in both approving credit and applying the charges. 
As Mr B remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, so Ill explain why. 
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were no credit limit increases, only the initial limit of £900 approved on application. I 
have looked at the information gathered through the application process and this shows Mr 
B as having an annual income of £17,000 and other unsecured debt of £9,500. But the credit 
search undertaken didnt show any accounts in arrears, adverse public records or payment 
arrangements. So, noting this and the relatively low limit of £900 I dont think the credit 
results meant that further checks were required. I think the checks were reasonable and I 
havent seen anything else to suggest the lending was unfair for any other reason.  
I think it likely that Mr Bs personal circumstances changed after the credit card was taken 
out, but I cant fairly hold Aqua responsible for that. When a customer is in financial difficulty, 
there is industry guidance as to what a firm might do to help. Businesses have an obligation 
to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) says that businesses like Aqua should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. So  Ive considered Mr Bs complaint in this light.
As Mr Bs account was never in substantial arrears triggering a referral and support action, I 
looked closely at Aquas communications with Mr B. 
I could see Aqua sent letters to Mr B which supports their assertion that they contact 
customers who miss payments or exceed credit limits, asking customers to call them if they 
have difficulties paying and signposting customers to support organisations. 
However, I couldnt see any evidence which shows Mr B informed Aqua that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
I considered the following two comments from Mr B:
 Mr B said he received electronic account balances and default and overlimit fee 
notifications via email from New Day and didnt open letters sent to me 
 Mr B said he was receiving harassing phone calls multiple times a day demanding 
payment to which left me feeling completely panicked and full of anxiety leaving me in a 
position where I felt too anxious to approach the lender for help because on occasions 
where I would call I was being demanded for bank details requesting that the outstanding 
balance would be withdrawn from my account. This made me completely evade reaching out 
for help as I would be under the impression I wouldnt get support but just credit controllers 
Although I can understand Mr Bs comments and am sympathetic to his feelings, I consider 
Aquas awareness and support correspondence to be fair and reasonable. Despite sending 
this correspondence, Aqua were not made aware of Mr Bs financial difficulties. 
Mr B had a signed credit agreement in which he accepted their terms and conditions, which 
included the charges on interest. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aqua to 
refund the interest and charges.
So, while I do understand Mr Bs strength of feeling, I havent seen anything which suggests 
Aqua have acted unreasonably or unfairly and it follows that I dont think they need to do 
anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman