DRN-4029570
The complaint
Mr S complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds service under his dental insurance poilcy. 
What happened
Mr S had group dental insurance through his employer, insured by BUPA. He sent us a 
leaflet which said BUPA dental insurance members were entitled to a discount of up to 20% 
on general dental treatments if they went to dental practices within the BUPA network.
Mr S complains about the service he received when he went to a BUPA dental practice for 
treatment. In summary he said:
BUPA failed to give adequate training to the dental practice on how to apply the 20% 
discount for his treatment which led to the practice submitting a wrong claim to BUPA 
for this treatment. That led to the practice requiring an upfront payment from him 
which should never have happened.
BUPAs leaflet about its dental insurance promises no fuss claiming but his 
experience had been very different as hed spent hours correcting the dental 
practices mistakes with no help from BUPA. It took him over two months to get the 
overcharge refunded to him.
He wants BUPA to take responsibility for its lack of training to the dental practice to 
ensure accurate claims are made. He also wants compensation for his 
inconvenience.
BUPA said:
It was the dental practices responsibility to apply the discount appropriately and 
ensure the practice staff were trained how to do that, not BUPAs responsibility. 
BUPA was the insurer and the dental practice was BUPAs agent only for the 
purposes of forwarding claims. BUPA was responsible for paying the cost of Mr S 
eligible treatment in line with the policy benefits and when the claim was submitted 
the dental practice should have already applied the discount. 
The dental practice was responsible for Mr S poor customer experience, not BUPA.
Our investigator said BUPA had met its obligations to handle claims promptly and fairly as  
the regulators rules required. She said BUPA wasnt responsible for the dental practices 
failure to apply the discount or train the practices staff about the discount and BUPA made 
reasonable effort to assist Mr S in recovering the amount he was overcharged.
Mr S wants an ombudmans decision. He said if an ombudsman decided BUPA wasnt 
responsible for his poor service he would show the decision to the dental practice who 
wasnt accepting responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen documentation, which is commercially sensitive and confidential, about the service 
agreement between BUPA and participating dental practices and I dont think BUPA is 
responsible for providing training to the dental practice about how to apply the discount.
Also, the rules this service operates under say we can only consider complaints about 
businesses and activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
Providing training isnt a regulated activity. That means even if I did think BUPA was 
responsible for the training I wouldnt have the statutory power to consider whether BUPA 
had adequately trained the dental practice.
I can consider how BUPA handled and settled claims. The FCAs rules say that insurers 
must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
The dental practice acted as BUPAs agent when forwarding the claim to BUPA. So the  
practice was required to submit the claim directly to BUPA on Mr S behalf, which it did.
BUPA settled the claim up to the policy limit, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I think BUPA could have reasonably assumed that the dental practice would have applied 
any eligible discounts to the cost of the treatment before sending the claim on behalf of Mr S. 
The dental practice not applying the discount had no impact on the amount BUPA paid and it 
was for the dental practice to pay the overcharge to Mr S.
I can see from BUPAs internal notes that when Mr S told BUPA about the problems hed 
been having with the discount BUPA contacted the dental practice to try to help resolve the 
issue for Mr S, which was reasonable for it to do. I dont think BUPA was responsible for any 
delay in the dental practice refunding Mr S the overcharge.
In the circumstances Ive no basis to fairly say that BUPA should pay any compensation for 
Mr S inconvenience caused by the discount not initially being applied by the dental practice.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman