DRN-2818792
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1997 to
protect a mortgage. Ms C says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold
her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case.
BoS had to make Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
the policy to her mortgage. Ms C has told us she wasnt aware the PPI had been added to 
her mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time the PPI was sold, and there is 
limited information available from both BoS and Ms C. But this isnt unusual considering how 
long ago the sale took place, and that BoS arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. With the information available I dont have enough to find that BoS didnt present 
the policy as optional, or that Ms C didnt choose to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms C, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. Ms C 
has told us she would have been entitled to generous sick pay when she took the PPI, so 
she didnt need the policy. Ms C also had savings and could have relied on her parents
to help if she was unable to make her repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Ms Cs sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. The policy 
would also have protected Ms Cs savings so they could be used towards other expenses 
she may have had at the time. While I appreciate Ms Cs parents would have wanted to help, 
their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could 
have changed.
Based on what Ive seen of Ms Cs circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and she seems to have had a need for the 
cover. So, I think it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think Ms C chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for Ms C if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI
would have put Ms C off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said, including that she wasnt aware she had the 
policy, and if she had been given a choice, she would not have taken it out. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above, these comments dont change my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman