DRN-3821832
The complaint
Mr D complains about interest applied to his credit card by MBNA Limited. 
What happened
Mr D opened a credit card with MBNA on 2 March 2020. The credit card had a promotional 
interest rate of 0% for 26 months for balance transfers. Mr D went on to transfer balances to 
the credit card. 
MBNA issued monthly statements that showed the end date of the balance transfer 
promotion. MBNA says it sent Mr D a text message in April 2022 to advise his promotional 
interest rate was due to come to an end. Mr Ds advised he didnt receive the text message. 
In May 2022 MBNA started to apply interest to Mr Ds credit card. 
A few months later, Mr D contacted MBNA after he noticed he was being charged interest 
and complained. MBNA didnt agree it had unfairly added interest to Mr Ds credit card but 
offered him £20 for the inconvenience of calling it to discuss his account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. They though MBNA had dealt with 
Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D didnt realise the promotional interest rate was due to end in May 2022 
and that he feels MBNA shouldve done more to notify him. Ive looked at the information 
MBNA gave Mr D about his promotional interest rate and when it ended. 
When Mr D opened his credit card MBNA sent him a credit agreement. The credit 
agreement and associated terms set out how the credit card would operate, including when 
the promotional interest rate was due to end. The credit agreement confirmed the 
promotional interest rate would last for 26 months. Mr D transferred balances from other 
credit cards. 
MBNA also sent Mr D monthly statements. They gave details of the different interest rates 
MBNA applied to Mr Ds credit card, including the promotional balance transfer. The 
statements all confirmed the expiry of the promotional interest rate was the beginning of May 
2022. 
MBNAs provided systems evidence to show it also sent a text message to Mr Ds mobile in 
April 2022 advising the promotional interest rate was due to end the following month. Mr Ds 
told us he didnt receive the text message. But the evidence shows it was sent to the same 
number we have on file for Mr D. Im satisfied the evidence shows the text message was 
sent as MBNA claims. 
Im understand Mr D feels MBNA couldve done more, but Im satisfied MBNA has correctly 
applied interest, in line with the credit agreement he accepted. And Im satisfied the credit 
agreement and following up statements made the end date of the promotional interest rate 
clear. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent found grounds to tell MBNA to refund the 
interest he paid. 
MBNA offered Mr D £20 to apologise for any inconvenience caused by having to call it. As 
Im satisfied MBNA treated Mr D fairly, I havent been persuaded to increase the award or 
take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that MBNA Limited has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman