DRN-3555675
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC are reporting to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
that his account is arrears.
What happened
Mr H had a loan with Lloyds with a repayment term that was due to end in March 2022. Mr H 
fell into financially difficulty, and after discussing matters with Lloyds, the term of his loan 
was extended to July 2022. Mr H later noticed that Lloyds were reporting that his account 
was in arrears, which given that loan term had been extended, Mr H didnt feel was the case. 
Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Hs complaint. But they felt that they were making accurate reports to 
the CRAs, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Lloyds 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Lloyds were 
acting unfairly towards Mr H in how they were reporting the account to the CRAs, and so 
they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its evident that when Lloyds attempted to take the loan repayment that was 
due on 1 July 2021 by direct debit, their attempt was unsuccessful. This was because there 
werent sufficient funds in Mr Hs current account to allow the direct debit payment to be 
taken.
Lloyds wrote to Mr H about the missed payment and advised that theyd attempt to take the 
payment again in seven days. But when Lloyds did attempt to retake the due payment, that 
attempt was also unsuccessful for the same reason. As such, Im satisfied that Mr Hs 
account did fall into arrears in July 2021, and that it was therefore reasonable for Lloyds to 
have subsequently reported the account as being in arrears to the CRAs.
A similar thing happened the next month, in August 2021, with the attempt that Lloyds made 
to take the payment by direct debit not being successful because sufficient funds werent 
present in Mr Hs current account to enable that payment to be made. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr H on 14 August 2021 and explained that because the July and August 
payments had now been missed that the account was considered to be two months in 
arrears and asking Mr H to resolve the situation or to get in touch. And after two weeks, 
when Mr H didnt make any arrears payment or contact Lloyds to discuss the status of his 
account, Lloyds issued a further letter which explained to Mr H that he needed to contact 
Lloyds by 11 September 2021 or that Lloyds may issue a default notice on the account.
Mr H did then contact Lloyds by telephone on 2 September 2021, at which time he explained 
his financial difficulties to Lloyds. In response, Lloyds agreed to a 30-day hold on the 
account. Importantly, Lloyds confirmed that while they would freeze interest on the account 
and wouldnt pursue Mr H for the outstanding arrears during that 30-day period, the account 
was still considered to be in the position of being two months in arrears, and that these 
arrears still needed to be cleared. It was also confirmed the scheduled loan repayment due 
in September would also need to be made.
Following this, Lloyds were able to successfully take the September 2021 loan payment by 
direct debit, but the next payment after the 30-day hold period ended  the October 2021 
payment  couldnt be taken by Lloyds, again because there werent sufficient funds in Mr 
Hs current account to enable that payment to be taken. Additionally, given that Mr H didnt 
make any payments to clear the outstanding arrears that were present on his account from 
July and August, Mr Hs account was considered to still be in a position of multiple arrears.
Im aware that Mr H believes that a payment holiday was agreed between Lloyds and 
himself when he spoke with them in September 2021, and that this meant that the missed 
payments for July and August 2021 were added to the end of his loan and the term of the 
loan extended accordingly. However, as per the letter that Lloyds sent to Mr H, as 
referenced above, this clearly wasnt the case.
It also must be noted that a payment holiday is a concession thats agreed between an 
account holder and a credit provider in advance of any potential repayment issues, and 
before a payment is missed. But in this instance Mr H was already in arrears on his account 
when he spoke with Lloyds. In such circumstances, it would be highly irregular for a payment 
holiday to be agreed on the terms that Mr H believes was the case. And, as explained, the 
letter that Lloyds sent to Mr H about the 30-day interest freeze clearly confirms that the 
account was still considered as being in arrears and that those arrears needed to be repaid.
Im aware that Mr H feels that because the term of his loan was extended, that this must 
mean that his account wasnt in arrears as Lloyds have reported. However, Lloyds explained 
in their complaint response letter to Mr H, dated 3 February 2022, that while the end date for 
the loan term was extended to July 2022, this was as a result of payment holidays that Mr H 
had taken previously, before the events under consideration here took place. 
As such, while Mr H is correct that his end date for his loan had moved from March 2022 to 
July 2022, the loan end date of July 2022 was already in place when Mr H wasnt able to 
make the monthly repayments that were due in July and August 2021. And as explained 
previously, that the loan term end date wasnt extended as a result of the conversation that 
Mr H had with Lloyds in September 2021 was confirmed by Lloyds in their letter to Mr H that 
followed that conversation, and which confirmed that the account was still considered as 
being in a position of arrears that needed to be cleared.
Finally, Mr H has stated that he didnt receive notification from Lloyds by text that his July 
and August payments had been missed as he would have expected, and that if he had 
received such notifications that he would have ensured there was money present in his 
current account for the payments to be taken. Mr H has also stated that he didnt read 
several of the correspondence sent to him electronically by Lloyds, and so was unable to act 
upon them.But as the account holder, it was Mr Hs responsibility to monitor and maintain the account, 
including ensuring that there was sufficient money available for scheduled loan repayments 
to be taken. Additionally, Lloyds have confirmed that they dont provide a text service in the 
manner that Mr H has referred to, and neither are they obliged to. And I wouldnt consider 
Lloyds to bear any accountability for Mr H not reading the correspondence that was sent to 
him by Lloyds.
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that Lloyds have acted unreasonably 
or unfairly towards Mr H in how theyve reported arrears to his credit file. And this is because 
Im satisfied that Mr Hs account was in arrears, and that therefore the reports that Lloyds 
have made to the CRAs about those arrears are accurate and correct.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I trust that Mr H will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman