DRN-1694052
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy a claim made under their home insurance policy has 
been declined by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
In September 2019 the ceiling in Mr and Mrs Ps dining room collapsed when they 
were changing a lightbulb. They contacted QIC, the provider of their home insurance, to 
make a claim under their policy.
Mr and Mrs P said that they tried to use their home emergency cover they thought they 
had taken out, but were told they didn't have this. So they had to pay for a builder to make 
the ceiling safe until QICs surveyor could attend.
QIC carried out an inspection but declined the claim for damage to the ceiling. They said 
the plaster had gradually deteriorated over time, which had resulted in it collapsing. Whilst 
they noted that Mr and Mrs P said they had pulled on a light cord, they said the cause of 
damage was gradual damage, and wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with the claims decision and raised a complaint with QIC. 
The claims decision remained the same, so they approached this service.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He also thought the damage was the result 
of wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy. He also said that whilst QIC 
hadn't provided call recordings, it was unlikely they would say Mr and Mrs P didn't have 
home emergency cover when they in fact did have this.
Mr and Mrs P didn't agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided to issue a 
provisional decision before I make my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment 
on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair  
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should note that QIC has paid for Mr and Mrs Ps contents items that were 
damaged when the ceiling collapsed. As this isn't in dispute, I wont comment on this 
part of the claim further.As there are two remaining parts in dispute, whether QIC should have provided 
home emergency cover, and whether declining the claim for the ceiling damage was   
reasonable, Ill consider these separately below.
Home emergency cover
Mr and Mrs P say they contacted QIC following the collapse of the ceiling and were 
told that they didn't have home emergency cover. They subsequently paid £180 for a 
builder to make the ceiling safe until QICs surveyor could attend. They would like 
reimbursement for this sum.
Our investigator asked for call recordings, but QIC hasnt provide these. But they 
concluded it would be unlikely that Mr and Mrs P would be told this as they do have 
that cover.
Ive not been able to listen to the calls, so I cant say exactly what Mr and Mrs P were 
told. But Ive still looked to see whether Mr and Mrs P could have successfully used 
this part of their policy.
Ive reviewed a copy of the policy terms. Whilst Mr and Mrs P do have home 
emergency cover, this only includes cover for emergencies relating to plumbing and 
drainage and heating systems.
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs P were told by QIC they didn't have a home 
emergency policy or not. Or whether they were told they didn't have cover under it for 
this particular issue. But, either way, Mr and Mrs P didn't have cover for the ceiling 
collapsing and having it temporarily secured. They would always have had to pay for a 
temporary repair themselves.
So, Im not going to ask QIC to reimburse the £180 Mr and Mrs P paid to have the 
ceiling temporarily secured.
The ceiling collapse
Following the collapse of the ceiling, QIC inspected and said that the cause of the 
collapse was gradual deterioration, rather than an insured one-off event. The surveyor 
said the plaster had de-bonded from the lathes and the ceiling had come to the end of 
its natural lifespan.
Having looked at the photos of the damage, it does appear that the ceiling is suffering 
from some age-related deterioration. So if it had just fallen, without any external force 
or involvement, then potentially it may be have been reasonable to rely on this 
condition.
But the ceiling didn't just collapse. Mr and Mrs P say that when changing a light bulb, 
they held onto a light cable, and a hook and the ceiling came down.
 
 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover for accidental damage. And this is defined as, 
sudden, unexpected physical damage which happens at a specific time, wasn't 
deliberate and was caused by something external and identifiable. So holding onto a light cable and hook, this pulling from the ceiling, and the ceiling subsequently 
collapsing, falls within what QIC would define as accidental damage.
Ive seen photos of the ceiling, the length of cable, dropped light and the hook no 
longer attached, and the damaged ceiling where the hook was  which is on the edge 
of where the ceiling had fallen from. I find Mr and Mrs Ps description of what 
happened plausible and consistent with accidental damage. So I dont think it's 
reasonable for QIC to decline the claim in full on the basis of wear and tear and 
gradual damage, as Im persuaded it was this event which ultimately caused the 
ceiling to collapse.
However, I dont think this means that QIC should cover the entire cost of the ceiling 
repair and I'll explain why.
As Ive noted above, the ceiling does appear to be suffering from some age-
related deterioration. So whilst I accept that it was the action of pulling on the cable 
and the hook coming from the ceiling which caused the ceiling to collapse, I need to 
take into account that if the ceiling wasn't suffering from age-related wear and tear and 
was well maintained, it's unlikely such a large section would've fallen. And a localised 
repair may have been possible.
But saying exactly how much would've fallen had it been well maintained and not 
suffering age-related wear and tear isn't possible. So I think a contribution towards the 
repair by QIC would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P paid to have the ceiling repaired when the claim was declined, at a cost 
of £1,980. So whilst I cant say exactly how much would have come down, my view is 
that a fair contribution would be 50% towards the repair. Interest at a rate of 8% simple 
per annum should also be added to this from the date Mr and Mrs P paid for the 
repair.
But Mr and Mrs P would need to pay any applicable excess under their policy.
Whilst I dont think the claim should have been accepted in full for the reasons 
outlined, declining it in full has caused Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience. So, 
Im also of the view that Mr and Mrs P should be compensated £150 for this.
On that basis, I said I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in part. I said that I 
didnt think QIC should have declined the claim in full, and felt a 50% contribution towards 
repair costs would be reasonable in the circumstances (with 8% simple interest added). I 
also said that QIC should compensate Mr and Mrs P £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P responded and agreed with my provisional decision.
QIC also responded agreeing with my provisional decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyAlthough both parties responded accepting my provisional decision, Ive considered again all 
the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Im still satisfied that QIC should reimburse 50% of the ceiling 
repair costs, and 8% simple interest should be added to this from the date Mr and Mrs P 
paid £1,980 for the repair. And my view on the appropriate compensation, £150, remains 
unchanged.
But as outlined in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs P would still need to pay the 
applicable excess under their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs P's 
complaint in part.
QIC Europe Ltd must:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs P 50% of the cost of repairing their ceiling 
Add interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum calculated from the date Mr and Mrs P 
paid for the repair*
Pay Mr and Mrs P £150 compensation
 
*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman