DRN-3193123
The complaint
Mr P complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc (CIS) did not seek his 
instructions for a rights issue. He says CIS knew it held an incorrect email address for him 
but that it failed to contact him by other means.
What happened
CIS administers a holding of shares for Mr P. Ill refer to the shareholding as A. In 
September 2020, A announced a rights issue. But Mr P didnt receive any communication 
about it from CIS. When he contacted CIS, it was too late for him to provide instructions.
CIS said it sent information to Mr P at the email address hed provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr P didnt agree so 
the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint and I set out my reasons why. I said:
CIS said that in May 2012, when it tried to email Mr P notice of an AGM, it was 
notified by the email provider that the email was undeliverable. CIS wrote to Mr P to 
ask for an up to date email address, but it didnt hear back from him.
In CISs 2020 final response letter to Mr P, it quoted Article 5(1)(d) of the GDPR. This 
says:
1. Personal data shall be:
(d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; every reasonable step 
must be taken to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate, having regard 
to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or rectified without 
delay (accuracy)
CIS was aware in 2012 that it did not hold a valid email address for Mr P; in other 
words, the personal data it held about him was inaccurate. It tried to put this right by 
writing to Mr P and asking for his up to date email address. Mr P says he didnt 
receive this letter.
CIS didnt receive a reply from Mr P and so it kept the existing email address in its 
records.
I think CIS should have done more to try to put this right. It could have reasonably 
tried to contact Mr P again when it didnt receive a reply to its letter.
And, because it couldnt put things right within a reasonable period, I think it should 
have arranged to delete the email address from its records - it knew its records were, 
in all likelihood, inaccurate.
CIS told us that it sent information about the rights issue by A in 2020 by email where 
it had an email registered, or by post where there was no email address recorded. It 
hadnt deleted Mr Ps email address  even though it knew it was wrong  so it sent 
the information about the rights issue to that email address. It told us that, where an 
email address wasnt registered, it sent the information by post. So, if it had treated 
Mr P fairly, it wouldnt have had an email address registered for him and it would 
have contacted him about the rights issue by post.
Had it done so, it seems most likely that Mr P would have been able to give 
instructions in time for the deadline date of 21 September 2020. It follows that it 
seems fair CIS should compensate Mr P for the loss he made in not being able to 
give his instructions.
In my provisional decision I also set out what I thought CIS needed to do to put things right. 
I said:
It seems clear from what Mr P has told us that he would have taken up the rights. 
CIS should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if it had given instructions to take 
up the rights in full, including compensating him for any dividends he would have 
received on those shares since September 2020.
CISs mistake has caused Mr P some distress and inconvenience for which he 
should be compensated. I think £75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
CIS said it had no further comments to make.
Mr P said CIS had been in contact with him to make arrangements to pay him £75. But it did 
not mention the compensation for him not being able to take up the rights. He said this 
demonstrates how hes been treated by CIS and that I may want to consider whether £75 is 
enough to compensate him for CISs conduct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said in response to my provisional decision. Its 
disappointing that CIS doesnt seem to have taken care to read my provisional decision and 
understand the award I said I was minded to make. And I sympathise with Mr P that CISs 
service has not been what he should reasonably expect. But my role is to decide what 
compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience Mr P has been caused, not to punish 
or fine a business. Having re-considered this, I still find £75 to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And I dont find any reason to depart from my earlier conclusion.
Putting things right
CIS needs to compensate Mr P as set out in my provisional decision. As it seems to have 
misunderstood this, I will repeat it again here.
1. CIS should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if it had given instructions to take up 
the rights in full, including compensating him for any dividends he would have received 
on those shares since September 2020.2. CIS should pay Mr P £75 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
To avoid further dispute, CIS should provide Mr P with its calculations for the compensation 
award under 1 above.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Computershare Investor Services Plc should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman