DRN-1586902
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Santander UK PLC has charged her a fee for her account being 
overdrawn.
What happened
In mid-May 2019, Mrs S made a £12.50 transaction which caused her Everyday current 
account with Santander to fall into its overdraft. On the same day, Mrs S on seeing she had 
done this made a transfer to her account of £12.50. But Mrs S said the transfer didnt credit 
her account until the following day. And Santander charged her £1 because of this.
She complained to Santander who said the transfer was made after 4pm on the day and it 
was  too late to be credited to Mrs S account to prevent the overdraft fee. But, offered to pay 
Mrs S £10, not as a refund, but as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S wasnt happy with Santanders response as she had made payments later than 4pm 
before to her Everyday current account that had credited her account the same day. She 
said shed accept the £10 offer but that Santander should also refund her the £1 fee. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Santanders terms and conditions said payments after 4pm couldnt be 
guaranteed to credit an account the same day. So didnt ask Santander to do anything more.
Mrs S said Santanders terms and conditions were inconsistent and didnt fit with their 24/7 
banking model. She has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Mrs S has an agreed overdraft with Santander and hadnt been charged a fee 
before the transaction she made in mid- May 2019. So I can understand her frustration in 
being charged a fee, no matter how small. And she transferred funds to her account on the 
same day as the transaction that took her into her overdraft was made.
I know Mrs S feels with todays banking model, her account should have been credited on 
the day she made it no matter what time this was. Its not for me to instruct Santander to 
change or implement processes, but to look at whether they have followed their processes 
correctly. In making my decision I have to determine whether Santander has acted fairly and 
reasonably in what they have done.
The Santander Everyday current account terms and conditions, say customers will be 
charged for using an agreed overdraft facility. And go on to say: We allow you time to manage your account so, if you should use an Arranged or 
Unarranged Overdraft, you will have until 4pm that day (Monday to Saturday) to pay money 
back into your account, with cleared funds, and move your balance back to an Arranged 
Overdraft or credit position
 Mrs S didnt transfer the funds she needed to move her balance back into a credit position 
until after 11pm on the day she went into her overdraft. As this was after 4pm I cant say 
Santander has done anything wrong by applying the fee.
So, I think Santander have acted fairly and reasonably in relying on their terms and 
conditions to not refund the overdraft fee.
I can see that Santander has paid Mrs S £10, which she has accepted. And I think 
Santander has been clear that this payment wasnt a refund for an error. But an 
acknowledgement of Mrs S being a valued customer of theirs.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons outlined above, Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
  My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman