DRN-3293637
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group downgraded his motor 
insurance cover on three separate occasions.
What happened
On 18 December 2018, Mr B took out a motor insurance policy with Adrian Flux. As part of 
this policy, Mr B was required to have a telematics device (sometimes known as a black box) 
fitted to the car. And the policy was limited to 2,000 miles a year. Adrian Flux supplied Mr B 
with the telematics device. But it didnt work correctly, and Mr B struggled to keep it charged. 
When the device wasnt working correctly, Adrian Flux sent Mr B emails telling him this. 
These were automatically generated based on the signals Adrian Flux were receiving or 
failing to receive. And, on occasions, the cover on the policy was also temporarily 
downgraded to third-party only
Mr B wasnt happy with what had happened, and he complained to Adrian Flux. Adrian Flux 
said that theyd acted in line with the terms of Mr Bs policy, but they offered him £100 as a 
goodwill gesture to cover the costs Mr B said hed incurred while his cover had been 
temporarily downgraded. But Mr B was still unhappy, so brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said the policy Mr B had with Adrian Flux required the car to be fitted with a 
working telematics device. And, if it wasnt, then the cover on the policy would be restricted 
to third party only. She said it was clear there was an issue with the telematics device but, it 
wasnt possible to say exactly what the issue was. But she thought it was likely to be as a 
result of the incorrect fitting of the device or the low mileage that was done.
The investigator thought Adrian Flux couldve told Mr B that the low mileage may cause 
problems with keeping the telematics device charged. But she said theyd acted within the 
terms of the policy and warned Mr B on a number of occasions before downgrading the 
cover. So, she thought the £100 they offered was reasonable, and she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said shed repeatedly misinterpreted the 
evidence presented by both myself and Adrian Flux and he wasnt happy with how his 
complaint had been investigated. Mr B was provided with details of how to complain about 
our service and this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen that Adrian Flux wrote to Mr B on 18 December 2018, providing him with copies of 
his insurance documents. The cover letter clearly stated your insurance cover will be 
restricted to Third Party Only and ultimately cancelled if your [telematics device] is not fitted 
and activated within 72 hours of the policy starting. You must also make sure it is kept 
charged in order to avoid restrictions to your insurance cover.
Under the heading Awareness of policy terms, the policy documents stated when a policy 
is issued, you are strongly advised to read it carefully  if you are in doubt on any of the 
policy terms and conditions, please contact us promptly.
And, under the heading Telematic Device, the policy documents stated it is a condition of 
your insurance that the telematics device supplied at the start of your policy (or a 
replacement supplied by us) is correctly fitted, working and kept charged while your vehicle 
is in use or parked. The telematics device must be fitted within 72 hours of the policy start 
time. If it is not fitted, cover will be restricted to the minimum required by law.
Mr B was also given a 14-day cooling off period, in which to cancel his policy. So, if he didnt 
agree with the requirements of having the telematics device, or the potential consequences 
of not complying with these requirements, then he couldve withdrawn from the agreement. 
But he didnt do this.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr B was made reasonably aware of what could happen if 
he failed to ensure the telematics device remained charged. And by not contacting Adrian 
Flux about the telematics device, and/or cancelling the policy, within the 14-day cooling off 
period, he agreed to be bound by these terms.
Ive seen that Adrian Flux contacted Mr B with a battery power warning on 52 occasions 
between 2 February and 16 December 2019. And, on some of these occasions, they also let 
him know that the battery needed recalibrating, providing him with the instructions for this. 
They also told him that the device needed to be kept on charge until it was fully charged.
Adrian Flux also contacted Mr B on 9 September 2019 to let him know that the telematics 
box wasnt transmitting any data. And to ask him to plug it in urgently, as failure to do so may 
result in cancellation of the policy.
On 23 April, 8 October, and 27 November 2019, Adrian Flux wrote to Mr B, telling him that 
the telematics device fitted to his car had no battery power. They explained that, because of 
this, the policy had been restricted to third-party only cover, and that, if he failed to charge 
the device, this could lead to the cancellation of his policy. On 4 May, 11 November and 2 
December 2019, Adrian Flux also confirmed to Mr B that the telematics device was now 
sufficiently charged, and that fully comprehensive cover had been re-instated.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Adrian Flux were acting within the terms of the 
policy when they restricted Mr Bs cover. And I think they acted reasonably by giving Mr B 
sufficient notice of this by way of multiple battery power warnings.
In response to the battery warning emails, over the course of a string of emails between 
February and July 2019, Mr B told Adrian Flux that the charging and/or recalibration of the 
battery didnt work correctly. Given this, he thought the device was faulty.
Adrian Flux asked Mr B to return the telematics device for testing, and to establish if it was 
faulty. This email confirmed that Mr B would receive a replacement device. But Adrian Flux also told Mr B that, if the device wasnt faulty then hed be charged £165 for the cost of the 
replacement device.
However, Mr B refused to return the telematics device to Adrian Flux. And Ive seen that, on 
one occasion when he was asked to do so, Mr B also refused to provide Adrian Flux with 
photographs of the device so they could try and establish if there was a fault.
Whats more, between January and April 2019, Adrian Flux corresponded with Mr B on 
several occasions about the telematics box being incorrectly installed in the car.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its clear that something was wrong. This may have been 
an issue with the telematics device itself. It may have been an issue with the fitting, or that 
Mr B wasnt charging or recalibrating the device correctly. Or it could also have been an 
issue with the battery life as a result of Mr Bs limited use of the car. However, because Mr B 
refused to send the device back to Adrian Flux for testing, and because the device hasnt 
been tested independently; its not possible to say what the problem actually was. So I cant 
say, either conclusively or on the balance of probabilities, that Adrian Flux supplied Mr B with 
a faulty telematics device.
As this is the case, and because Adrian Flux have already offered £100 compensation, I 
dont think they need to take any further action. Its now for Mr B to decide whether to accept 
this compensation or not. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Adrian Flux 
Insurance Services Group.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman