DRN-2737705
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont accept that he was the victim of identity theft 
and so wasnt responsible for accounts opened in his name.
What happened
Mr P says that hes been contacted by other financial businesses about borrowing on current 
account and credit card that had been sold on to them by HSBC. He says he never opened 
any account with HSBC and that he had lost his identity card in 2008 when he came to this 
country.
HSBC said it opened accounts for Mr P after it had verified his identity. In 2008 it checked 
his passport and identity card. And in 2009 it checked his UK driving licence. It didnt accept 
that the accounts were opened by a fraudster. In 2017 it sold overdraft and credit card 
borrowing to third parties.
Our investigator said that she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Shed seen 
copies of the photographic identification provided to HSBC in 2008 and 2009. Mr P had 
mentioned losing his identity card in his wallet in 2008 and then going back to his original 
home country to report and renew this. But he hadnt mentioned losing his passport. HSBC 
said that the applications were made in branch meaning that a member of staff would have 
checked the identity documents and that the person making the application matched the 
photographs. She thought it unlikely a fraudster would come back a year later with a fake 
driving licence.
She reviewed the current account statement from the time it was opened in 2008 to the time 
it was closed, and the debt then sold to a third party. The entries were consistent with 
household use for a number of years with salary payments, child tax credit and normal 
patterns of spending. Mr P said he hadnt opened an account until 2014 and was paid cash 
in hand. But she thought it unlikely that he hadnt been operating the accounts at HSBC.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he was very unhappy with what our investigator said. He had 
seen fake identification documents before and he said that these were very easy to obtain in 
his home country. He had never lived at the address that statements were being sent to for 
the accounts. And he finds the contact hes had about this borrowing distressing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has been able to provide copies of the identification documents used to verify Mr P. 
As our investigator has explained an identification card and passport were provided in 2008 
when the current account was opened. And a UK driving licence in 2009.
Mr P maintains that these documents were either ones he lost or fake ones. As our 
investigator has said he hadnt reported his passport being lost at this time. I dont find that 
Mr P was the victim of identity theft. I say this taking account of the following:
- Original documents were presented to HSBC staff and checked on two occasions.
- It would be unusual for a fraudster to create and then provide further documentation 
in 2009.
- Mr Ps position is that this fraudster was living a seemingly normal life in this country 
during a time when none of Mr Ps real information was checked - or for example any 
issue arose with there being a driving licence in his name. Mr Ps position is that the 
fraudster was creating a lot of evidence of financial activity and receiving payment to 
an account for salary and benefits. While until 2014 he has no record of any account 
and cant substantiate what he was doing and where he was living. To me his 
description of what happened seems highly unlikely.
- The pattern of payments on the current account looked normal and not that likely 
carried out by a third party. At times a significant overdraft balance was built up but 
was repaid. It was only nine years after the account was opened that borrowing that 
wasnt repaid was taken and then collection activity followed for this and credit card 
borrowing
In my view the evidence that these were genuine accounts most likely taken and used by   
Mr P is persuasive. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman