DRN-3238712
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with a claim she made under a home insurance policy which she held jointly with the late Mr 
H.
What happened
Mrs H made a claim to her insurer RSA for damage to a carpet. RSA appointed an agent to 
arrange for a replacement carpet to be fitted. Mrs H asked for a quote for the replacement of 
other carpets in their home to be done at the same time as the carpet which was covered 
under the claim. 
Mrs H received a discounted rate under the quote and decided to pay for the other carpets 
including fitting to be done at the same time as the carpet covered under the claim. 
When the contractor advised her of a fitting date, she said this was when she discovered 
that the carpet fitter wouldnt be local. Mrs H was unhappy about this as she says it was 
agreed that the fitter would be local. So Mrs H says she was misled. She was also unhappy 
that the carpets would be fitted over two days. Mrs H says her husband was living with a 
health condition which she needed to consider while having work done in the home. Mrs H 
wanted the fitting to be done over four days. 
Mrs H cancelled the fitting of the carpets. RSAs agent said Mrs H owed the supplier a 
cancellation fee. 
Mrs H complained to UKI. In May 2021 RSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it couldnt 
verify what was discussed between the agent and Mrs H about the carpet fitter being local. 
But it said it had used the agent for a number of years and this has always been the way it 
deals with claims. So RSA believed there may have been a misunderstanding. 
RSA said the fitter looked to fit the carpets over two days to minimise the disruption for Mr 
and Mrs H. It says Mrs H signed a contract with the fitter when she paid for the additional 
carpets. As she wanted the fitting to take four days rather than two and the fitter didnt agree, 
Mrs H cancelled and is therefore subject to a cancellation fee. So RSA said it couldnt ask 
the fitter to waive this. 
Although RSA didnt uphold the complaint, it provided Mrs H with the option of either paying 
the extra for fitters to take four days rather than two: or it could arrange delivery of the 
carpets and Mrs H could make her own arrangements for the fitting.
Mrs H remained unhappy and in June 2021 she asked us to look at her complaint. Our 
Investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She says RSAs agent misled her that the supplier and fitter would be 
local. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has told us that sadly her husband Mr H passed away in December 2021. Im very 
sorry to read this. 
I appreciate that Mrs H doesnt accept there was a misunderstanding in what was discussed 
about the fitter being local. Where there is a dispute about a conversation and there is no 
evidence of what was discussed, we have to take a balanced view as to what most likely 
happened. We also take into account what the policy says RSA will do in the event of a 
claim. 
Under the section; preferred supplier; RSA says;
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Our philosophy is to 
repair or replace lost or damaged property where we consider it appropriate and we 
have developed a network of contractors, repairers and product suppliers dedicated 
to providing claim solutions. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a 
preferred supplier but we agree to pay a cash settlement, then payment will normally 
not exceed the amount we would have paid our preferred supplier.
We dont think its unreasonable for an insurer to use their own preferred suppliers. So I 
dont find this term under the policy to be unfair. 
I appreciate Mrs H doesnt agree and is clear about what was discussed. But in light of what 
the policy says, I think its possible there was a misunderstanding about whether the fitter 
would be local. 
As Mrs H made arrangements for the supply and fitting of other carpets, any cancellation fee 
owed due to Mrs Hs decision to cancel the carpets and fitting is a matter between Mrs H 
and the fitter and supplier. 
I understand the reasons why Mrs H wanted the fitting to be done over a longer period. And I 
think the fitter reasonably offered to do this, but not without a charge  due to the business 
impact the adjustment would have. 
I think RSA as the insurer liable for the carpet replacement and fitting under the claim has 
acted in a fair and reasonable way by offering to put Mrs H back in the position they were in 
before the damage occurred. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs H. But based on the information available, Im not asking 
RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman