DRN-3942334
The complaint
A, a sole trader business, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt allowed it more time to 
repay or refinance its borrowing.
What happened
A took out a business loan backed by security on its leasehold property registered in 2007. It 
also has had an overdraft and credit card. A explains that since 2017 it has been affected by 
serious flooding of its property on several occasions. And then the pandemic. A is 
represented in this complaint and its representative was unhappy to be told by Lloyds that it 
had to repay all its borrowing by 31 July 2022 or Law of Property Act Receivers would be 
appointed. A wanted more time to pursue a lease extension of the property and then to 
refinance the borrowing. It pointed out that it had made significant repayments in the past 12 
to 18 months. 
Lloyds said it hadnt made any mistake. A formal demand had been made for the borrowing 
in March 2018. And the borrowing had been passed to recoveries in April 2018. It stressed 
the time that had since passed, and that A had by then had four years to repay outstanding 
borrowing. It hadnt done so, and Lloyds wanted things to be brought to a conclusion.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He noted that the 
recoveries team had been in contact with A since 2018. And that Lloyds had requested 
repayment proposals on a number of occasions since then. In July 2019 A had been told by 
Lloyds that Receivers may be appointed. And it repeated this in November 2019 and 
February 2020. He couldnt see that any firm proposals had been made by A. He considered 
that A had been provided with sufficient time even taking its difficulties into account. And that 
Lloyds hadnt made any error or acted unreasonably.
He clarified with A that we wouldnt be able to look at the circumstances in which its 
borrowing had been made subject to formal demand and passed to recoveries. Those 
matters had been addressed by Lloyds in a final response letter dated 31 July 2018 and A 
hadnt referred that to this service within the six-month time limit allowed. An ombudsman 
colleague issued a decision about jurisdiction on 2 February 2022 and said that we couldnt 
consider those matters.
A provided further information to support its complaint. These included emails with its then 
relationship manager from 2017 and 2018. And explained that he had suddenly retired and 
that it had been misled and hadnt expected its borrowing to be placed with the recoveries 
team. It said that it had a third flood and by then no insurance. During the pandemic the 
owner of A had become seriously unwell and the representative attributes this to the actions 
of Lloyds. He is a vulnerable customer. 
A letter from Lloyds in March 2022 had said it was here to help and wanted to agree an 
affordable way to repay. And the representative had written and explained the position 
including an unavoidable delay in extending the lease and the efforts made to reduce the 
borrowing in the previous 12 months. The options being pursued including refinancing were 
set out. And it said that the letter from Lloyds of 13 April 2022 didnt explicitly say it needed 
to refinance and the period of three months allowed was unachievable. This lacked integrity 
as it expected Lloyds to say what it meant. The terms of extension of the lease had now 
been agreed. There were six refinancing options on the table subject to the imminent 
extension of the lease. The representative said that its complaint that it had been the victim 
of financial crime in 2018 had been ignored by Lloyds. 
A quoted published material by Lloyds about the support it offered to customers and that it 
had a binding charter which should apply to all. It didnt think it had been supported 
including through the pandemic. And it also quoted from what the Chair and Chief Executive 
of Lloyds said in the 2021 Annual Report and that it hadnt benefitted from the promises that 
it could have a sustainable and inclusive future. A said it was financially viable and in a 
sector that had been identified as being particularly badly affected in the pandemic. There 
had been a lack of empathy to its circumstances, vulnerability and the issues faced. This 
matter had diverted A and its representative from business activity. Lloyds wasnt at any risk, 
but A could lose everything, and the family of the owner was reliant on it. A said it reserved 
the right to claim compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that as our investigator said, an ombudsman colleague has decided we wont be 
able to look at the events before the first final response from Lloyds dated 15 July 2018. I 
have summarised comments A has made about that above and I understand the context, but 
I wont be able to consider a complaint about this.
Ive looked at the detailed case notes made over time by the recoveries department. And its 
clear to me that the focus since 2018 has been on A coming up with proposals to repay the 
borrowing. Our investigators already referred to certain of those instances as set out above. 
And reference to the appointment of Receivers was first made before the pandemic. I 
appreciate that three floods had affected the business and that the owner has had health 
problems. And also, that A has made repayments to the borrowing when its been able to 
and has evidenced attempts to refinance the borrowing.
In my assessment those matters have all contributed to the period of time that Lloyds has 
given A to make and firm up proposals. I take As point that it expected to have further time. 
But I think that Lloyds reasonably wanted the matter to be resolved. I also note that Lloyds 
said it had put matters on hold during the currency of this complaint although had issued a 
further final demand in October 2022. 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds has been generally unclear in its requirements. And I note that 
in its letter of 23 March 2022 it asked A to contact it within seven days to agree a way 
forward or it may start legal action. And then in its letter of 13 April 2022 it said that it had 
paused any action until 31 July 2022 allowing time for refinance. It wanted details of the 
refinance by 31 May 2022.
I appreciate that this was very unwelcome for A, which had received and understandably 
had become used to past extensions. But Lloyds has the commercial discretion to decide 
how to pursue any recovery action. And I think the past time allowed has been reasonable 
even taking into account what A says and refers to about Lloyds public commitments to 
support and help businesses and vulnerable customers. Ive noted relevant industry 
guidance including from the Lending Standards Board.So, I dont have a basis to say that its made any mistake or on balance acted unfairly. Or 
that its not dealt with A and its representative here positively and sympathetically.
In conclusion Im afraid I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint. If A doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this in court subject to 
any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman