DRN-3097071
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with what she says is maladministration of her claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) by Society of Lloyds. 
Where I refer to Lloyds, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
Miss G has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by Lloyds. 
In 2020 she made a claim as she wanted to pursue legal action against a third party. Lloyds 
accepted the claim to pursue a breach of contract and a panel solicitor B was appointed. 
The claim continued but Miss G was unhappy with its progress and she raised a complaint. 
She wanted to appoint her own solicitor to represent her. Lloyds considered the complaint 
and issued a response in May 2020. In summary it offered £100 compensation for avoidable 
delays, but it maintained that Miss G wasnt yet entitled to freedom to choose her own 
solicitor under her policy at that stage. 
This complaint was referred to our service but it wasnt upheld. Miss G also raised a further 
complaint about maladministration of her claim and the ongoing failure to allow her to 
choose her own solicitor. Our investigator considered this between May 2020 (when the 
previous complaint had been responded to) and 1 April 2021 when Lloyds issued their 
further complaint response. 
Our investigator said she couldnt comment on Miss Gs dissatisfaction with B. And in 
relation to Lloyds, she maintained that Miss G still wasnt entitled to freedom of choice and 
she didnt think the claim had been mismanaged. Miss G still disagrees and has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss G, so Ill explain why.  
In line with our investigators considerations this decision covers Lloyds actions between 
May 2020 and April 2021. Id like to start by echoing what our investigator has already said. I 
cant comment on the action of solicitors. Im pleased to see that our investigator has 
appropriately signposted Miss G in relation to her options should she remain dissatisfied with 
the conduct of legal professionals. 
Under the title of Policy Conditions Miss Gs policy says:
2. Freedom to choose an appointed advisor
a) In certain circumstances as set out in 2.b) below the insured may choose an 
appointed advisor. In all other cases no such right exists and we shall choose the 
appointed advisor. 
b) If:
i) We agree to start proceedings or proceedings are issued against an insured, 
or 
ii) There is a conflict of interest
The insured may choose a qualified appointed advisor
This term is commonly found in policies like Miss Gs and it isnt something I think is 
inherently unfair. Im also satisfied that its in line with the relevant law and standard industry 
practice.
Generally, an insured person is only entitled to choose their own solicitor at the time it 
becomes necessary to start court proceedings or when there is a conflict of interest. Im 
satisfied that at the relevant time, Miss Gs claim hadnt yet reached that point. And it wasnt 
for Lloyds to assess whether B were conflicted or not. B would be obliged to report a conflict 
of interests and I cant say Lloyds are at fault if they didnt report one when they ought to 
have.  
Miss G has explained that the crux of her complaint is that she feels B werent qualified to 
deal with her case. She says all she wanted was a solicitor with relevant experience to best 
represent her. Miss G says that she hasnt been provided with evidence to show that B had 
the relevant experience. She also says that when B reported a conflict it was because they 
only had one member of staff that could deal with her claim who she had by then complained 
about. She feels this speaks to a lack of overall experience within the firm for her type of 
claim. She is also particularly frustrated as she says alternative panel solicitors have far 
greater experience. 
I can see that Lloyds considered this. Lloyds obligation as an insurer is to provide suitably 
qualified legal representation. But B were happy they were able to deal with the claim, and I 
dont think Lloyds accepting this was unreasonable. I know Miss G feels that Lloyds should 
have probed further about the experience within B. I agree with our investigator that, as a 
professional firm, its likely B would have reported to Lloyds if they felt unable to efficiently 
deal with the claim including working with suitable experts to do so. And Im not persuaded 
the case was so unusual or complex that a panel solicitor couldnt be used. 
Miss G is also concerned about the level of costs incurred by B before a claim was even 
issued. I can see that Lloyds discussed the costs with B in late 2020 and this resulted in 
them highlighting certain parts of the policy terms to Miss G about her obligations. It is 
common practice for costs to be considered and assessed at the conclusion of a claim. 
There isnt anything which makes me think that in this case Lloyds should have done so 
sooner. Miss Gs policy covers her for reasonably and proportionately incurred costs. If 
Miss G is concerned that costs beyond this have been billed, then they wouldnt generally be 
taken from her limit of indemnity. But I cant comment on an assessment of costs that 
doesnt form part of this complaint and which may well be yet to take place. 
I also dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in highlighting part of the policy terms to Miss G. 
I know Miss G feels this was her being blamed for the costs B had incurred. But Lloyds didnt 
make any judgement, accusation or invoke any of the terms  they simply highlighted them.Lloyds, as the insurer, arent responsible for the day to day management of the legal claim. 
As above, I cannot comment on the actions of B, but Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
mishandled the claim during the period relevant to this complaint. 
Where a solicitor is appointed under an insurance policy and the policyholder complains to 
the insurer about the solicitor, Id expect the insurer to pass that complaint on or to refer the 
policyholder to the solicitor directly. Broadly speaking, I can see that this is what has 
happened. 
Miss G feels Lloyds should support her in complaining to B as a reasonable adjustment due 
to her personal circumstances. Generally, Id expect a business to make reasonable 
adjustments to assist their customers where they can. But I dont think this would extend to 
Lloyds being a representative for Miss G or complaining to B on her behalf. And whilst Im of 
course sympathetic to the difficulties Miss G has experienced, I dont think I can fairly 
criticise Lloyds for not having done more. 
Prior to issuing my decision I spoke to Miss G. Im grateful to her for taking the time to 
explain her complaint. I acknowledge that being involved in any legal dispute will be a 
difficult and stressful time. And I can quite understand Miss Gs frustrations with the process. 
But I can only consider the actions of Lloyds and their handling of matters. Lloyds simply 
arent responsible for the service, advice and management of the legal claim by B. It does 
seem that the majority of Miss Gs dissatisfaction sits with B and overall, Im not persuaded 
that Lloyds have treated her unfairly. I dont think there are any service failings which warrant 
a compensation award or that Lloyds were unreasonable in not allowing Miss G to choose 
her own solicitor or change between panel solicitors at the times material to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman