DRN-2961618
The complaint
Mr H complains that the advice The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
gave him to transfer his existing Prudential Personal Pension plan to a Flexi-access 
drawdown plan was unsuitable. 
Mr H is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr H has held a personal pension plan with Prudential since 1992. He received an 
unexpected tax bill for £3,600, £1,600 of which was due straight away. The remaining 
amount was due in 6 months time. He wanted to raise funds to pay this. 
Mr H had recently received a letter from Prudential advertising their advice service. So he 
contacted Prudential to ask for a meeting. And met with an adviser on 28 December 2015 to 
discuss releasing money from his pension. His partner was also present at the meeting. 
Prudential said they thought Mr Hs entire tax bill was due immediately. They said that their 
records indicate that the tax bill was due in full. And that their adviser could only go by what 
Mr H told him. So their advice was based on that.
At the time of the advice Mr H was self-employed. The Prudential personal pension plan was 
his only pension plan and was worth around £85,000. 
Mr H said that he thought the advice he was getting was free as hed been a Prudential 
customer for a long time.
A fact find was conducted during the initial meeting. This covered Mr Hs assets. These were 
a mortgaged buy-to-let property which he rented out. And a cash ISA with a value of £3,000. 
No other personally held assets were listed in the fact find. 
The fact find also noted that the £3,000 Mr H had in savings was lower than he wanted. It 
said he wanted to have at least £6,000 just in case he had another unexpected bill. It also 
noted that Mr H had a monthly disposable income of around £180. But that he tended to use 
this to cover work expenses. 
A second meeting between Mr H and the Prudential adviser took place on 18 February 
2016. The adviser wrote to Mr H on 24 February 2016, enclosing a copy of the Suitability 
Report. This stated that Mr Hs main objective was to access a capital sum of £7,000 from 
his pension to pay off his tax bill and to add to his emergency funds.
Mr H was advised to transfer his existing pension to a Flexible Retirement Plan. And then
crystallise £28,000 of his fund so that he could take £7,000 of tax-free cash. He was also 
advised to take £6,800 of income from the plan to pay contributions back into the Flexible 
Retirement Plan over the next three years to build another tax-free lump sum at retirement.
Mr H went ahead with the advice.
In October 2019, Mr H complained to Prudential through his representative. Amongst other 
things, Mr H said:
1. He felt the standard of advice was unreasonable and the pension drawdown was 
inappropriate. 
2. He was under the impression the advice hed been given was free of charge as he 
was a long-term customer of Prudential.
3. He felt the adviser should have recommended contributions to his pension should 
have ceased to allow a chance for reserves to build up for the next tax bill.
4. He shouldnt have been moved to a completely different investment fund.
5. He should be treated as a vulnerable client, as he is illiterate, and therefore relied 
very heavily on the advice given verbally by Prudential.
Prudential issued their final response letter on 25 November 2019. They didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said:
1. The recommendation their adviser had made was suitable.
2. The initial meeting had been free of charge. And there was no charge for receiving 
the recommendation. But a product charge had been payable. Prudential also said 
they could evidence that Mr H had been made fully aware of the Initial Advice Charge 
at the initial meeting.
3. Theyd considered other options, for example existing savings or taking a loan. But 
that the alternatives hadnt been acceptable to Mr H. 
4. Theyd determined Mr Hs attitude to risk at the time of the sale as low to medium 
risk. And that the fund theyd recommended met his requirements. They said the 
previous investment fund was no longer suitable for him.
5. They said that theyd never been made aware that Mr H was illiterate. They noted 
that his partner had attended both meetings.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator felt 
that his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that the advice Prudential had given 
him was suitable. She felt that if Prudential had advised him to leave his pension alone and 
use money from his savings and disposable income to pay his tax bill he wouldve done so. 
To put things right, she recommended that Prudential put Mr H as close as possible to the 
position he would have been in if he had been given suitable advice. She said that she felt 
Mr H wouldve remained in his existing funds within his Prudential personal pension. 
Prudential didnt agree. They said that from the information their adviser had been given, the 
most viable option Mr H had to meet his objectives was to take the tax-free cash. They said 
that his existing pension wouldnt have met his needs and objectives.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this case has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When we look at a complaint about the suitability of advice we consider if the recommended 
actions were suitable for the consumer at the time of the advice, in light of the information we 
know about the consumer and the product. Prudential say that their advice was suitable. But 
Mr H says it wasnt.
We dont only need to consider whether the recommended actions were suitable for the 
consumer's circumstances at the time. We also need to ensure that businesses act in the 
best interests of the consumer.
From the information Ive seen, I consider that Prudential did take reasonable steps to 
establish Mr Hs financial situation and investment objectives. But Im not persuaded that 
they then used this information to recommend the most suitable course of action for Mr H to 
meet his objectives. This is because Im not persuaded that the advice they gave Mr H was 
cost effective compared with other options that mightve been available to him. So I dont 
believe the advice was in Mr Hs best interests. Im also not satisfied that Mr H was aware of 
the charges, although I acknowledge that Prudential did cover charges in their written 
communications with him. 
What other options did Mr H have to meet his objectives?
Prudential said that Mr H wanted to increase his emergency savings by around £3,000. And 
pay his £3,600 tax bill. So I understand why they felt that Mr H needed to access around 
£7,000 in cash. But I dont agree that there werent other more suitable options for Mr H than 
the recommended course of action they recommended. The advice recommended to Mr H 
had an initial cost of around £4,000. On the face of it, it seems entirely inappropriate to 
recommend a course of action to free up £7,000 that costs a customer £4,000. 
Prudential disagree. They said: While the main objective is to raise £7K of TFC the advice is 
much wider than this. The client has been provided with holistic pension advice on his full 
fund of circa £85K and also his existing pension contributions because the existing product 
did not offer a Drawdown option. They also said that further vesting advice would be 
provided without additional charge if it were needed in the next two years. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H said he needed to build up his emergency fund 
immediately. So I asked Prudential why their adviser didnt consider cheaper alternative 
ways of building it up. Prudential said: the advice is wider than simply providing £3,600 for 
an emergency fund. He would need to stop pension contributions for 18 months before he 
had the required emergency fund amount. We would not think it good advice for someone to 
be left for this length of time without an adequate emergency fund and to lose out on tax 
relief contributions for 18 months. But Im not persuaded by this argument given the cost of 
the advice. I consider that if Mr H had been fully aware that the recommended course of 
action would cost him around £4,000 he wouldnt have agreed to it.
In reality, only £1,600 of the tax bill was due straightaway, with a further £2,000 due six 
months later. So from what Ive seen, Mr H couldve temporarily paused his pension 
contributions, saved some of his disposable income or taken a small loan to cover the £600 
shortfall. But Prudential said that Mr H told them his whole tax bill of £3,600 needed to be 
paid immediately. They said that this meant pausing his pension contributions wasnt a 
viable solution as it wouldnt have resolved the problem in time. Prudential also said that Mr 
H was uncomfortable getting a loan to pay part of his tax bill. And they said: It would not 
necessarily be cheaper to take a loan as the client would require advice to access his 
pensions at some point in the future, as a result he would have to pay the advice charges at 
that point anyway, so taking a loan out would actually work out more expensive in the long run as he would have the loan charges plus the advice charges which if the fund value 
increased in the interim period would be even higher. So, from what Ive seen, Prudential 
didnt make it clear to Mr H that getting a loan could be considerably cheaper than the 
course of action they were recommending. Or that the other alternative options may be more 
cost effective. On balance, I dont consider that Mr H would necessarily have needed to take 
advice to access his pensions, so Im not persuaded by Prudentials argument. 
Based on what Ive seen, I consider that Prudential placed too much emphasis on Mr Hs 
stated need for additional emergency funds. And not enough emphasis on other methods of 
accessing the additional funds he needed to pay his tax bill. So Im not persuaded that the 
advice they gave was suitable. I consider that he had other viable options that wouldve been 
suitable.
Ill now consider whether the charges for the recommended course of action were made 
clear. 
Were the charges clear?
Mr H has literacy issues. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Prudential werent made 
aware of this. I also note that Mr H had his partner present at both meetings with Prudential. 
As no one made Prudential aware of these issues, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold 
them responsible for not knowing.
However, Mr H said he believed that the advice he was getting was free because he was a 
long-term customer of Prudential. Prudential said: Charges are clearly documented on 
several documents including the illustration and at the end of the SR. It is a mandatory part 
of the sales process to go over and explain these documents to the client. But Ive seen no 
evidence that it was verbally made clear to Mr H exactly what fees he would be charged for 
accepting the recommended advice. I acknowledge that I cant know for certain what was or 
wasnt said during the two meetings. 
I asked Prudential if their adviser ever explicitly stated the total £ amount of the initial 
charges. They said this was a mandatory part of any advice process. And that disclosure 
documents which confirmed the charging structure wouldve been provided at the initial 
meeting. They said: We are not required to have clients sign these documents and we do 
not make recordings of face to face meetings with clients  there would however have been 
an FRP application which should have included details of charges and been signed, 
although this appears to be disputed.
Prudential also explained why two different Summary of Advisor Charges documents (both 
undated) had been produced for Mr H. One stated that the total advice charge payable was 
£4,087.86. The other stated that the total advice charge payable was £3,611.86. 
Mr H shared with this service a copy of Prudentials 1 March 2016 letter confirming theyd 
received the application form from his adviser for the Flexible Retirement Plan. It says: We 
contacted your Financial Adviser regarding some additional information we needed. [Name] 
at Prudential Financial Planning has now confirmed the following information-
 Adviser charges for the Personal Pension Transfer Plan option were missing from the 
application form. Adviser charges will apply; a set-up adviser charge of 3.5% will be 
deducted from your plan and paid to your financial adviser and an ongoing charge of 0.5% 
per year paid monthly.
Please take this letter as formal confirmation of the change we have made to the details on 
your application form Your plan will be set up to reflect this amendment. If any of this information is incorrect, please contact us and your Financial Adviser immediately.
Prudential said it appeared that thered been an administrative error with regards to the 
charges. But that Mr H had all the other documents showing him the charges. So they felt he 
clearly knew he was being charged. They also said that they have nothing on record that Mr 
H was unhappy with the charges. 
From what Ive seen, the documentation wasnt as clear as it would normally be about the 
initial charges. There were two versions of the initial charging structure. And there was an 
error in the application form which meant that the set-up adviser charge of 3.5% was 
missing. Although I cant be sure how much verbal information Mr H was given about the 
charges at either of the meetings, on balance of probabilities I consider that he wasnt ever 
made explicitly aware of the charges. So, although I acknowledge that Prudential did provide 
charging information in the documentation to Mr H, Im not persuaded that it was made 
completely clear to him what he would be charged for the advice hed been given. And I 
consider that if hed been made aware of the initial charges, he wouldnt have decided to 
follow the recommended course of action. 
Ill now consider whether it was reasonable to move Mr H to a completely different 
investment fund. 
Was it reasonable to move Mr H to a completely different investment fund?
Mr H said that he shouldnt have been moved to a completely different investment fund. The 
Flexible Retirement Plan that hed been moved to was more expensive than his old plan. 
And didnt have the with-profits investment option Mr H had said he valued in his original 
pension plan. But it allowed the drawdown access Prudential felt Mr H required. And his old 
plan didnt. 
Prudential said that theyd determined Mr Hs attitude to risk as low to medium risk. And that 
the fund theyd recommended met his needs to access £7,000 of cash. They said their 
adviser looked at his other options but that none of them worked. And that his existing 
pension wouldnt have met his needs and objectives.
If I agreed that it was vital for Mr H to immediately access £7,000 of cash from his pension 
plan, I would consider that the move to the Flexible Retirement Plan was reasonable. But I 
dont agree. As Ive said, I consider that there were a number of more suitable options 
available to him. 
I consider that Mr H couldve left his funds as they were and built a tax-free cash lump sum 
at retirement without the additional charges. So I dont think this advice was suitable. 
Mr H had access to his ISA, his disposable income and potentially a loan. He couldve also 
temporarily paused his pension contributions in order to save more money. Although there 
wasnt quite enough money in his ISA to cover the full tax bill, he had a number of other 
options to pay the remainder of the bill when it was due. So I don't feel that taking out a more 
expensive policy in order to access cash from his pension plan was the best option for him at 
the time of the advice. And I dont consider that he wouldve inevitably needed advice in 
order to access his pension.
Taking all the evidence into account, Im satisfied that the advice Mr H received wasnt 
suitable for his needs. I consider that Mr H wouldve been much better advised to leave his 
pension where it was and find other ways to pay his tax bill.
Putting things rightFair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have remained invested in his existing funds within his 
Prudential personal pension. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
What should Prudential do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Prudential must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Prudential should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Prudential should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Prudential is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Prudential should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Flexible 
Retirement 
Planstill existsPrudential 
Personal 
Pension  With 
Profits Funddate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementNot applicableActual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Prudential totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because Im satisfied that Mr H wouldve 
remained in his original Prudential personal pension plan if it wasnt for the advice to 
transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to pay the amount calculated as set out above.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should provide the details of the calculation to 
Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman