DRN-3141696
The complaint
Mr L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr L was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go in August 2020. He borrowed £1,090 and 
agreed to repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr L has faced some problems repaying 
his loan and a balance remains outstanding.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Loans 2 Go had done sufficient checks before lending to Mr L. And he thought that better 
checks would have shown it was unlikely that Mr L would be able to afford to repay the loan 
in a sustainable manner. So he didnt think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr L 
and he asked the lender to pay Mr L some compensation.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ls complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr L required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In 
practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt 
cause Mr L undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr L.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical data 
to revise Mr Ls declared expenditure upwards. And it checked his credit file to assess how 
much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with Loans 2 Go. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that Loans 2 Go wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to decline a loan application outright.  Or, in some cases, the 
results might lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. And that is what I think should have happened in this case. 
The credit check results showed that Mr L had managed his credit relatively well in the past. 
The report showed no evidence of missing payments, or more serious issues such as 
defaults or bankruptcy. So that might have given Loans 2 Go some reassurance about 
lending to Mr L. But the credit check results also showed that Mr L was making extensive 
use of other credit facilities at that time. In total he owed over £7,000 across loans, credit 
cards, and a bank overdraft. And it showed that over the previous year Mr L had regularly 
made use of short-term lending. So I think those results should have put Loans 2 Go on 
notice that it was possible, or even likely, that Mr L was facing problems managing his 
money and led the lender to probe deeper into Mr Ls finances.
Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements, and what hes told us about his financial situation, to 
see what better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go. At this stage I want to be clear that 
I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that Loans 2 Go should have carried out. I do 
think Loans 2 Go needed further evidence about what was happening with Mr Ls finances. 
And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that although there are of course 
many other ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ls 
bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mr Ls bank statements show that he had not been in credit at all during the past two 
months. His overdraft was often far higher than had been shown on Loans 2 Gos credit 
check. And, most importantly, Mr L was making no progress in reducing that level of 
overdraft. His day to day spending was at least equal to the income he received. And the bank statements show that Mr L was regularly borrowing from other lenders  including 
taking a large short-term loan just a week before he asked to borrow from Loans 2 Go.
It is of course possible that Mr L could have used the proceeds of the loan from Loans 2 Go 
to reduce some of his other credit exposure. But the amount he asked to borrow on this loan 
was significantly less than his total debt. It doesnt seem to me that even using the entire 
loan to repay other borrowing would have made any material difference to the position Mr L 
found himself in.
On balance I think that better checks would have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr L had no 
capacity to take on any additional borrowing. His finances were already stretched, meaning it 
was unlikely hed be able to sustainably afford the repayments he would be required to 
make. So I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr L, and it needs to put 
things right.
  
Putting things right
I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to lend to Mr L in August 2020. So Loans 2 Go 
should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr L made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ls loan account as Ive directed results in Mr L effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ls loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Loans 2 Go that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr L
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman