DRN-2577020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Staffordshire Building
Society) mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in 1983 when they applied for a mortgage and again in 
1989 when they took out a further advance. Nationwide cant confirm where the 1983 sale 
took place, the 1989 sale took place in a branch. The policies were in Mr Bs sole name. The 
1983 policy protected him against unemployment and the 1989 policy against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI. They asked to 
increase the level of cover under the second policy in 1999, and again in 2005. At this time 
they also added Mrs B to the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
Mr and Mrs B say they did not deal with Nationwide, only Staffordshire Building
Society. The Staffordshire merged with the Portman Building Society in 2003 which then 
merged with Nationwide in 2007. So Nationwide has taken responsibility for the sale, and 
therefore this complaint. For simplicity, I will refer to Nationwide throughout this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B said the adjudicators view was one-sided and went with what Nationwide has 
said. But as an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of either 
financial businesses or consumers. Theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party 
over the other. As some of the evidence is incomplete here, Ive based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  so, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional  and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs B say they were pressured into taking out PPI and were told 
it was a condition of the mortgage. I cant know how the PPI was presented to them, but Ive 
looked at the paperwork available from the sales. For the 1983 policy Mr B completed a 
separate PPI application form. Theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably 
have led them to believe cover was mandatory. And it wasnt listed as condition in their 
mortgage offer. In 1989 they selected PPI for Mr B on the further advance application form, 
the cost was set out separately, and again theres nothing on the form that I think could 
reasonably have led them to believe the PPI was mandatory.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to take into account 
how long ago the sales were and how that might affect what they recall.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its most likely Nationwide made it
clear to Mr and Mrs B that the policies were optional, and they chose to take out cover for 
Mr B. And I havent found enough other evidence to support their recollection that they were 
pressured to do so. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI, so it didnt have to check the policies were right for 
Mr B. But it had to give Mr and Mrs B enough information so they could decide for
themselves whether they wanted to buy the policies. Its possible the information the society
gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think
they wouldve been put off taking out the PPI if they had received better information. I say
this because:
Mr B was eligible for the policies given his circumstances at the time and the policies 
terms and conditions.
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main benefits. As 
Mr B couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
B needed better information about the exclusions and limitations.
There is conflicting evidence as to whether Mr B was entitled to sick pay but even if 
he was, the 1989 PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay for up to 18 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It doesnt seem he had a 
work redundancy package and the 1983 policy would have given up to 24 months 
unemployment cover, and the 1989 policy up to 18 months cover. Mr and Mrs B had 
borrowed a large amount of money over a long period, secured against their home, 
and the consequences of not being able to make their mortgage repayments would 
have been serious. So I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if Mr 
B lost his job, or from 1989 if he was sick or unemployed.
I dont know when the cost of the PPI was first made clear, but the policies were 
reasonably priced for the benefit they offered, and Ive seen no evidence they were 
unaffordable.
In summary I think its most likely Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the policies and so appear
to have wanted this type of cover. I think its unlikely they wouldve made a different decision
if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the
policies.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman