DRN-2529969
The complaint
 Es complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) relates to the delay in closing her business 
account.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in any 
great detail. Mrs E was in business trading under the name of a limited company E. On 
behalf of E, Mrs S went into an HSBC branch in August 2019 asking to close Es account. 
She was asked to return with her ID documents which she did. She says these were sent off 
to HSBC headquarters by the branch but lost. In September 2019 she was asked by HSBC 
to complete an Unclaimed Balances Form which she did returning it on the 20 September. 
Following that Mrs S said she made several telephone calls to HSBC Customer relations 
without success and ultimately raised a complaint. 
HSBC accepted there had been problems in raising a cheque for the balance on Es account 
(the cheque) and on 15 October 2019 offered to compensate it by paying £300 and also 
promising that the cheque would be issued. HSBC say they sent out the cheque on 14 
October, but it never arrived. HSBC also say they sent the cheque to their branch for E to 
collect but it appears there were errors there as well. HSBC did say they tried to contact E to 
tell it the cheque was being sent to the branch, but E said it never received any contact. E 
then brought a complaint to this service. On 24 February HSBC said they would send the 
cheque as a matter of priority. E made further calls to HSBC and was told the cheque would 
be forthcoming. In frustration E sought help from the local MP. E finally received the cheque 
on 3 December 2020.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded there had poor service by HSBC 
and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. His view, which was issued prior to 
HSBC sending E the balance cheque, was that HSBC should issue the cheque to E, pay 
interest on the balance at the rate of 8% per annum, and pay her £500 for the trouble and 
upset they had caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accepted facts are that E requested its account be closed in August 2019. It did not 
receive the cheque for the balance until well over a year later. HSBC has accepted that it 
didnt get things right in some respects, and because of that it compensated E with £300. 
What is also very clear is that E repeatedly asked for its account to be closed and the funds 
paid out. The amount of money E had in its account was not insubstantial. 
As Mrs S initially attended the branch in August 2019 without any identification documents it 
was reasonable for HSBC to ask her to produce them before it released the money. But 
thereafter there were a series of failures on the part of HSBC in getting the money to E. In 
October 2019 E was told a cheque had been sent but it did not appear. I have seen no 
evidence from HSBC to show that it was sent, and as I have no reason to doubt E, I find on 
balance it is more likely than not that it was not sent out to E. E made calls to HSBC and was 
promised that it would be called back, but wasnt. This led to E making further complaints in 
early 2020 and being told that a cheque would be issued as a matter of priority, but it wasnt. 
In March E was assured the issue of the cheque would be escalated but this appears not to 
have happened either, since as a fact the cheque was not issued until December 2020. I 
have seen no explanation for these errors, only an indication that there were, prior to 
February 2020, some internal process errors. 
HSBC havent responded to our investigators view which was issued on the 21 September 
2020, although did indicate on 30 October that the matter was still being looked into. Nothing 
further has been forthcoming.
So, overall I do find there to have been significant failures here and I do think that HSBC 
should compensate E. Out investigators suggested resolution has partly been dealt with 
since E has now received a cheque for the balance on the account. But that does not reflect 
that it has been deprived of its money for a good while, and in my view it is reasonable that it 
be paid interest on that sum. Our investigator has said 8%, and I think that is fair. Mrs S has 
now retired and requires the money paid to E to fund, in part, her retirement. I think this 
should be paid on a simple interest basis and the rate I suggest reflects the current statutory 
interest rate on judgment debts.
In addition, I think HSBC should pay E compensation for the trouble and upset. It recognised 
this itself in October 2019 when it offered £300, but she did not receive her money for more 
than a year after that, and so I think this sum should be increased. I think the further £500 
suggested by our investigator is about right.
That leaves the final issue of a direct financial loss E believes it has incurred in the form of 
additional accountancy fees. E argues that had it received the cheque when initially asked 
for, E could have wound up the company at that point. By not being able to do so E has had 
to file further accounts and believes it will incur further expense from its accountant. E has 
provided a letter from an accountant who has been unable to say what the actual expense 
will be, although he has made an estimate of work undertaken involved in previous 
accounts. It is unclear what such work entailed and how it may have been caused by a delay 
in E receiving its cheque and so I am not satisfied this represents any direct financial loss.
  
Putting things right
 Given my findings above I shall endeavour to place E back in the position it would have 
been in but for the failure I have found above. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay E;
(1) £500 compensation within 28 days of the date of this my final decision. 
(2) Pay interest on the balance E had in her account as at 15 August 2019 (that being 
the mid point of the month E requested her funds) at the rate of 8% a year simple, to 
the 3 December 2020 being the date she received the funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman