DRN-3740550
The complaint
Ms J complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has continued to add 
delays with the handling and settlement of her buildings insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
Any reference to RSA includes the use of its agents appointed in the handling of this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
This is the fourth complaint made in relation to the handling of Ms Js claim. Ive not 
focused on the timeline as a whole as each complaint raised has focused on different 
points in time, although Im aware of the detail of each complaint.  This complaint is 
focused on RSA and its contractors actions from 29 September 2021 to 26 July 2022 
when RSA issued a final response. I understand subsequent complaints have been 
raised after this as issues continue.
There is no dispute from RSA that it has added delays to the claim, what is in 
question is the amount Ms J should be paid in recognition of these delays. Ms J 
doesnt believe the total award of £500 recommended by our investigator and 
accepted by RSA is fair.
Ms J has made it clear a number of times that she requires RSA to make reasonable 
adjustments with how it communicates with her when arranging the work on her 
property and it is clear this hasnt always happened. This has added to the distress 
and inconvenience of the claim beyond the point I think it is reasonable to expect.
Ms J at times requested that work was put on hold, but I think its fair to say this was 
through a necessity following RSAs delays over her actively choosing to pause work. 
I dont think it is reasonable to say Ms J had a significant impact on the progress of 
the claim. 
I think RSA has caused avoidable delays when work wasnt progressed as quickly as 
it could have been. While some delay can be attributed to external factors, Im not 
satisfied this can be relied on for all of the delays and the claim should have 
progressed sooner than it did.
The scaffolding in place at the property has impacted the use and enjoyment of 
Ms Js property and shes highlighted concerns about damage to her garden and 
plants, but RSA has confirmed it is happy to assess this damage once the claim is 
complete and the scaffold removed. This seems like a reasonable approach and I 
dont think it would be right to ask it to attempt to make an assessment in the interim.
I understand why, with such a history of issues with the handling of this claim that 
Ms J feels a further award is justified. The added delay to the claim being resolved 
meant shes needed to live with her house covered in scaffolding for longer than she 
should have and this has impacted her use and enjoyment of it. Im grateful for the 
information shes shared on this and it is clear this has caused inconvenience and 
distress. But I think the award of £500 is fair and reasonable when thinking about this 
for the period of time complained about. 
Although inconvenienced, Ms J still had use of her property with compromises made 
where the scaffold is in place. The concerns she has about the possibility of further 
damage being caused by water run off havent been substantiated so Im not 
persuaded this is the case. But if it was, RSA would need to assess the damage as 
part of the claim.
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA caused distress and inconvenience to Ms J when 
handling this claim throughout September 2021 to July 2022, with delays it added 
and with its failure to recognise the adjustments it needed to make when 
communicating with Ms J. 
Claims of this nature often take time to resolve and there is inconvenience and 
distress caused as repairs take place  often with an impact to the property and its 
use at the time. But this has gone beyond what is reasonable to expect and RSA 
should compensate Ms J in recognition of these delays. 
I feel £500 is a fair and reasonable award in these circumstances to reflect this. 
Putting things right
RSA should pay Ms J £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of its 
failings when handling this claim.
RSA offered £150 for these failings in its final response in July 2022, so if this has already 
been paid, it will need to pay an additional £350.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman