DRN-4094765
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for compensation for a package holiday on a 
cruise ship. He also complains that his address was reported incorrectly to a credit reference 
agency.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr S opened a credit card account with Virgin Money. He lives in a house, but 
his address was wrongly reported to a credit reference agency as a flat.
In June 2022 Mr S bought a two-week holiday on a cruise ship for his family and paid £5,450 
for it with his Virgin Money credit card. The holiday was not satisfactory. He complained 
about various issues, including:
Incompetent service at check-in, which resulted in hours of time wasted. He says he 
asked to cancel the holiday and leave the ship before disembarkation in exchange for 
a refund, but when this was not agreed to he persisted with the trip.
Five of the meals were of poor quality, including pink chicken, and two meals were 
not provided at all.
Staff were unable to provide accurate details about scheduled meal times, and 
sometimes conflicting times were given.
Covid-19 measures were not adhered to.
All drinks up to £13 were supposed to be included in the package at no extra charge, 
but he was charged separately for some of them.
Some other services that were supposed to be included were also charged 
separately, such as the spa.
The cabin was dirty.
Lifeguards left the swimming pools unattended.
Children were using the adults-only pool.
Teenagers were fighting in the corridors on one floor.
There was no or limited wi-fi, and the cruise providers mobile phone app didnt work 
properly or at all.
The cleaners vacuum cleaners had damaged electrical cords which had been 
patched up with insultation tape, and this presented a risk of electrocution to children.
Some vomit Mr S found on the floor outside his cabin was not cleaned up promptly.
Mr S raised these matters with staff on four occasions, but nothing meaningful was done, 
except that he was given some apology cards. On returning home, he complained to the 
cruise provider, but received no response. He then asked Virgin Money to refund him under 
section 75, alleging that the above matters amounted to breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the provider.
Virgin Money did not uphold his claim. It said that the cruise had been provided, and that 
meant there had not been a breach of contract. It did not agree that it was responsible for 
adding the word flat to the address on Mr Ss credit file.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr S brought this complaint to our service, but our 
investigator did not uphold it. He did not think there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the cruise provider. In particular, he noted that the terms and 
conditions about drinks being included stated that this would not apply in all bars, and some 
drinks would only qualify for a 25% discount. He thought that the mobile phone app was not 
part of the package holiday. He added that a chargeback dispute would not have succeeded, 
for the same reasons. The investigator also said he had seen evidence that when Mr S had 
applied for his credit card account, he had inadvertently entered his house number in the 
field for flat numbers.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his case. I wrote a provisional decision which read 
as follows.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently minded to uphold some of this complaint.
The section 75 claim
I have seen the complaint email which Mr S sent to the cruise provider detailing everything 
that went wrong with the cruise. A copy of that email was sent to our investigator by Virgin 
Money, and so I infer that Mr S must have also sent that same description to Virgin Money 
when he raised his section 75 claim. But Virgin Moneys response to his claim simply says 
that because the cruise had been provided and Mr S had been on it, this meant that the 
contract had been fulfilled and there had been no breach.
I cannot accept that this was the right approach. A contract to provide a package holiday can 
of course be breached by failing to provide it at all, but that is certainly not the only way it 
can be breached. It can also be breached by failing to provide the service with reasonable 
care and skill, which is a statutory implied term under section 49 of the Consumer Rights Act 
2015.1 And it can be breached by failing to comply with an express term of the contract, such 
as failing to provide a meal when it was a term that three meals would be provided each day, 
for example.
Virgin Moneys final response to Mr Ss complaint about the outcome of his claim was little 
better. It repeated what it had told him when it had denied his claim, and then added that 
some drinks may still be chargeable depending on circumstances; also the evidence Mr S 
had provided did not make it clear which drinks he had purchased.
I agree with Virgin Money about the drinks. The terms and conditions about the premium 
drinks package (see page 18 of the ticket) say that there are exceptions. Some venues are 
not included, and the minibar is not included, regardless of price. Also the deal is only valid 
for one drink per order, so extra drinks would still be charged. The evidence Mr S has 
provided is not enough for me to decide that these exceptions did not apply to the drinks he 
paid for, so I think that Virgin Money cannot be faulted for rejecting this part of his claim. And 
I currently think that similar problems also face Mr Ss claim about other services he was 
charged for.
1 There are further implied terms under Part 4 of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018, and I have had regard to these too.But there is nothing in either of Virgin Moneys letters, or in anything else it has provided our 
service with, to show that Virgin Money considered the other issues Mr S raised, which Ive 
listed above. Some of these issues are clearly not the holiday providers fault, such as the 
behaviour of children on the cruise, and so they would not be capable of amounting to a 
breach of contract. And a couple of issues are, I think, too trivial to qualify, such as vacuum 
cleaner power lines repaired with insulation tape. But some other issues (if I accept that they 
happened) are clear breaches of contract, such as the meals that were not provided or 
which were of a poor standard, the lack of wi-fi (the advertising had promised the fastest 
internet at sea), and the dirty cabin. Nothing Ive seen persuades me that Virgin Money 
considered these issues properly or at all.
I find that Mr Ss account of what happened is credible. Virgin Money was not obliged to take 
his word for everything, of course; it could reasonably ask him for evidence and then reject a 
claim about anything that was unsubstantiated. But since Virgin Money didnt do that, I am 
not going to adopt an excessively sceptical approach to Mr Ss evidence now. So my starting 
point will be to accept as true what Mr S said in his complaint email, except where there is a 
good reason to doubt him. (This does not apply to the premium drinks package, because Im 
satisfied that Virgin Money did consider that issue properly and reached a justifiable 
conclusion about it.)
I therefore accept that there were problems with wi-fi access, negligent lifeguards at the 
pools, poor quality food and on two occasions no food, incompetent and disorganised 
service at check-in, inconsistent information was given about meal times, the app didnt work 
properly, the cabin was dirty, and the cleaners failed to clean up the vomit promptly. I think 
that some (but not all) of these issues mean that Mr S was entitled to a price reduction, and 
that Virgin Money is liable for that under section 75.
I am not minded to award compensation for all of these issues. Im afraid that one of those is 
the vomit. I appreciate that finding vomit on the floor would not have been pleasant, but a 
cruise ship is very big and has lots of people, and so realistically it wont always be possible 
for the cleaning staff, however diligent, to get to everything within the timescale that a 
customer might normally be able to expect elsewhere. Rather than being a breach of 
contract, I think that it is just one of those things.
Mr S has provided photos showing that there was dust around the ceiling vent in his cabin. 
That does suggest to me that the cabins were not being cleaned as thoroughly as they 
should, but on the other hand, if other parts of the cabin had been dirty then I think he would 
have photographed those too. So I think that the cabin was probably not dirty all over.
I think that the other issues which I have found proved deserve some compensation. I am 
not going to consider them all separately and come up with a sum of money for each of 
them. Rather, I will consider them all together and reach a figure that reflects everything that 
happened in the round. I think that the most serious ones are the lack of internet (Ive seen 
Mr Ss screenshots confirming this), the chaotic start to the holiday at check-in, and the 
problems with the food. To put the last point in perspective, that was seven meals out of 42 
(three meals a day for 14 days), or one meal in six.
Balanced against all of that, Mr S and his family still went on a cruise together, so I have to 
take that into account to make sure that the total refund for what went wrong is 
proportionate. 
I currently think that a refund of £1,200 would be a fair resolution to this case.The address reported to the credit reference agency
Virgin Money has provided evidence from its systems showing that when Mr S applied for 
his credit card account, he entered his house number in the box for flat numbers by mistake. 
That adequately explains why his address showed up as a flat on his credit file, and it was 
not Virgin Moneys fault, so I dont uphold his complaint about that point. I understand that 
the record has now been corrected.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Clydesdale 
Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, to pay Mr S £1,200.
Responses to my provisional decision
Virgin Money accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr S £1,200.
Mr S said that the cruise provider recently agreed to refund him £37.20 for the drinks. Im 
pleased to hear that. I recommend that he obtains that refund from the cruise provider; it 
wont affect what Virgin Money has to pay him, and I think it is fair that that refund should be 
paid by the party actually responsible rather than by his credit card provider.
There is therefore no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm 
them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin 
Money, to pay Mr S £1,200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman