DRN-4206916
The complaint
Mr S complains about the handling of his account with Chetwood Financial Limited trading 
as Live Lend.
What happened
Mr S has a loan with Live Lend. He complained about difficulties he encountered getting his 
address updated which may have caused problems with his credit score. He also noticed 
payments he made to the loan werent reflected on his credit file and had trouble having a 
new direct debit set up after he switched banks.
Live Lend looked into his complaint. It said Mr S had contacted it asking to update his 
address and it wrote to him the following day explaining how to do so. As he had difficulty 
completing it, his address was later updated over the phone. Live Lend said his payments 
were being reported to the credit reference agencies but could take up to eight weeks to 
show. And it explained it couldnt set up a direct debit from his new account as it had been 
unable to verify it. Live Lend said it had made no errors and rejected Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with Live Lends response and referred his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said Live Lend had followed its 
procedures regarding Mr Ss change of address. He explained that Mr Ss credit file did 
reflect the payments made, and Live Lend had done what hed expect in this regard. 
Live Lend accepted what our investigator said, but Mr S didnt. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see Mr S has raised a number of other complaints about Live Lends 
handling of his account which are being considered as a separate complaint. To be clear, 
this decision relates only to the issues Ive outlined above.
I can see that Mr S asked Live Lend to change his address on 3 February 2022, and it 
replied with instructions the next day. Mr S complained as he was having trouble updating it. 
Ive listened to a call regarding the complaint. Mr S explained that as the property is a new 
build, it hadnt been registered on the Royal Mail post code finder which businesses use to 
check addresses. The advisor confirmed his new address and updated it on the system. 
I think Live Lend has done what Id expect here. It told Mr S in good time how he could 
update his address and when he couldnt do so, it updated the address itself. Its out of Live 
Lends control that Mr Ss new address wasnt available on post code finder. I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for that or any consequences of the address not being 
updated for a few days after he first requested the change.
Mr S has been making payments to his loan but says they havent been reflected on his 
credit file in good time. He says this has had a negative effect on his credit score and caused 
him problems obtaining credit elsewhere. Ive seen an extract of data supplied by Live Lend 
which it says was taken when he raised this element of his complaint in April 2022. It shows 
the loan was taken in November 2021, and four payments have been made on time since  
those due December to March. So I think Live Lend has updated the credit reference 
agencies, but, due to the way the process works, its not as quick as Mr S would like. 
Businesses generally report information to credit reference agencies on a set day each 
month and the data then needs to be processed by the agencies. In my experience, it can 
take up to eight weeks to appear on the individuals credit report. This isnt unusual and 
prospective lenders will be aware of the delay. 
Mr S closed the bank account hed used at the time he took the loan, due to fraud issues. He 
set up a new account with a challenger bank and wanted to use that to make his payments 
by direct debit. Live Lend explained to him that it was unable to set up direct debits on 
challenger bank accounts as its unable to verify details with them. 
Ive listened to a call where Mr S discussed this with Live Lend. He said that if Live Lend is 
unable to take direct debits from challenger banks, it should be mentioned on the website 
and consumers should be told before loans are taken. As the advisor said, there is an FAQ 
on the website which explains this. Ive thought about whether Mr S might have acted 
differently if hed been aware of this at the time and therefore, whether this lack of 
information led to a detriment. 
At the time he took the loan, he had an account with a high street bank. I think hed have 
taken the loan without thinking he may have to close that account. Even if he had been 
made aware sooner, I dont think his position would be any different. As far as Im aware, 
there is nothing to prevent him from obtaining an account with a traditional bank and setting 
up a direct debit to this loan if he wishes.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I cant see Live Lend have made any mistakes in the three 
points covered by this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before 27 July 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman