DRN-1744353
The complaint 
Mr B complains about the level of service he received from Connells Limited when applying 
for a new residential mortgage. Specifically, hes unhappy that:
The wrong mortgage offer was issued that did not include his porting details;
Connells did not communicate with him properly through the application process;
The delay to amend the offer caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience
What happened
In January 2019 Mr B enquired about a mortgage through Connells. Connells was aware 
that Mr B wanted to port a previous mortgage that he redeemed earlier that month. A key 
facts illustration with those details was issued on 5 February 2019.
A formal mortgage offer was produced on 6 March 2019. On 13 March 2019 Mr B called 
Connells to say the porting part was missing on his mortgage offer. Mr B says he was due to 
exchange contracts on 15 March 2019 and complete his purchase on 29 March 2020.
Connells looked into things and the correct offer was issued on 25 March 2019. Mr Bs 
purchased completed on time.
Dissatisfied with the service provided, Mr B raised a complaint with Connells. The complaint 
was upheld and £250 compensation was offered to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr B declined Connells offer and brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and felt Connells offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr B didnt agree. He didnt think the amount offered reflected the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him. Because an agreement has not been reached, the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Connells has admitted it got things 
wrong. So, the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things 
right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Connells should compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience 
caused during his mortgage application. However, I also think its important to explain that, 
as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.I appreciate the delays added to what was already a stressful time for Mr B and the matter is 
likely to have caused him some degree of frustration and inconvenience, so I sympathise 
with his position. 
But I think Connells acted on its mistake quickly and recognised the impact on Mr B which is 
reflected in the amount of compensation awarded. I say this because I can see from the 
contact notes that Connells was in regular contact with the lender to get the offer amended 
and to ensure the purchase completed on time  which it did. 
Connells apologised to Mr B for what happened and acknowledged that whilst it was in 
regular email contact with him, no call backs took place as requested by him. Connells 
offered to pay compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
Ive noted all the things Mr B has said about what could happen if the error was not picked 
up in time. But when considering everything, I think the compensation of £250 that has been 
offered to Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
I have decided that Connells has been reasonable in its attempt to put things right. So I do 
not require it to increase Mr Bs award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Connells Limited should pay Mr B the £250 offered for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman