DRN-2819916
The complaint
Mrs M complains, on behalf of her company that I will refer to as H, about how U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line for Business (UKI) handled its claim.
What happened
Mrs M is the director of H. H had a commercial property insurance policy with UKI to ensure 
its premises. In November 2019 someone in the neighbouring property caused a fire which 
damaged the roof of the property. Mrs M made a claim.
The claim was accepted and a loss adjuster attended the property to inspect the damage. 
They said only one pitch of the dual pitched roof had been damaged and this would need to 
be replaced.
Mrs M instructed a roofer to quote for the repair. The roofer advised that due to the age, the 
whole roof would need to be replaced. UKI agreed to pay 50% of this, just to cover the part 
affected by the fire damage. 
In the months that followed the roof suffered water damage and UKI agreed to increase its 
contribution to 70%.
During this time UKI told Mrs M that it would instruct solicitors to claim back its outlay from 
the neighbours insurer. It said it would use the solicitors to try and recover Hs uninsured 
losses too. However it later discovered the neighbours insurer was part of the same 
umbrella group as UKI so wouldnt need solicitors. However it didnt inform Mrs M until she 
enquired about this around a month later.
Mrs M made a complaint. She said she only accepted the 70% settlement because UKI had 
said it would help her recover Hs uninsured losses. She said as this was no longer being 
offered, it should pay for the total cost of replacing the roof.
UKI responded to her complaint and upheld it in part. It said its settlement offer was fair as 
only part of the roof had been damaged by the fire. And it said as the neighbours insurer 
was part of the same umbrella group, it wouldnt need a solicitor to recover its own outlay so 
hadnt acted unreasonably by withdrawing this for Hs losses too. However it accepted it 
should have told Mrs M earlier and offered £250 compensation to make up for this.
Mrs M didnt think this was fair, she said as asbestos had been found in the roof it wouldnt 
be possible to just replace part of it so thought UKI should pay for the full cost. She brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she agreed UKI 
should have informed Mrs M earlier that it wouldnt be offering legal support. And thought 
£250 compensation was enough to make up for this. However she said she thought the 70% 
contribution was fair as Mrs M is still able to try and recover her uninsured losses but this 
would never be guaranteed and isnt the insurers responsibility.
 
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for Hs complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has complained that UKI wont pay for the full cost of a replacement roof and that it 
withdrew its offer of legal support for recovering uninsured losses. Ive considered each of 
these in turn. 
Settlement
Insurance policies provide cover to put things right, where damage has occurred due to an 
insured peril  an issue listed as covered in the policy. To put things right we would expect 
an insurer to put the insured back in the position they were in before the insured event, or as 
close as possible. 
In this case the insured event was a fire. This caused damage to one half of the roof of the 
property. So at first UKI agreed to cover the cost of just the damaged part of the roof. This 
would put H back in the position it was in before the fire, so I agree this was reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Over the winter months, the roof suffered water ingress as a temporary covering had been in 
place and water had got under it. As this caused some additional damage, and was due to a 
temporary measure put in place by UKIs contractor, I think it was reasonable that UKI 
increased its contribution. It offered to pay for 70% of the cost of the whole roof and I think 
thats fair given the additional damage. 
Mrs M instructed a roofer who reported that the whole roof would need to be replaced due to 
its age. She says UKI should cover the full cost of this. However as the reason it needed to 
be replaced was its age, it would need to be replaced regardless of if there had been a fire 
or not. So I dont agree this would be the full responsibility of UKI. And it would put H in a 
better position than it was in before the fire  with a full new roof. So I dont think UKI acted 
unreasonably by only offering to cover the damaged part of the roof.
Mrs M has also said that as asbestos has been found in the roof, it wouldnt be possible to 
replace just half of it safely. So she thinks its reasonable for UKI to pay for the whole 
replacement, as this is the only possible safe solution. 
UKI has said there are specialist contractors who would be able to reattach half of the roof, 
without disturbing the asbestos in the other half. So Im not persuaded that it would be 
necessary to replace the whole roof rather than just the affected part. But regardless, the 
repairs are taking place as part of one job, with both UKI and H contributing to the cost. So I 
dont consider the fact asbestos has been found to be relevant to the final settlement thats 
been agreed. 
For these reasons Im satisfied that the settlement offered by UKI is fair, so I wont ask it to 
pay anything more.Legal support
Mrs M has said that she was told she would be able to claim back Hs uninsured losses 
through the use of UKIs solicitor. And as this was taken away, she thinks UKI should pay for 
these losses.
Where an insured event takes place that is as a result of a third party, it is usual that an 
insurer will try to claim back its outlay through the insurer for the third party. And sometimes 
will require the use of a solicitor when doing so. This isnt something that UKI provides to 
policyholders as part of the insurance, but UKI offered it to Mrs M due to the fact it was 
already pursuing the other 70% of the claim anyway. 
However as this wasnt required for its own losses, it was reasonable that the offer was 
withdrawn. I appreciate this would have been disappointing for Mrs M, and that it has meant 
she has had to pay for her own legal support. But as it isnt something thats provided under 
the policy cover, but was instead offered out of goodwill, it wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to pay 
for these costs. 
Further, when seeking to claim back an uninsured loss, it is never guaranteed that the full 
amount will be recovered. So even if UKI had needed to use a solicitor and extended this to 
Hs losses, there is no certainty that it would have received the full uninsured loss back. So it 
wouldnt be fair to ask UKI to reimburse this.
However I agree that UKI should have informed Mrs M that it wouldnt be using a solicitor, 
and therefore extending the service to her, as soon as it was aware. I can see that the fact 
Mrs M only found this out when she contacted UKI, caused her some distress. But I think the 
£250 compensation it has offered is enough to make up for this. So I wont ask UKI to do 
anything more.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman