DRN-2150986
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) for the way it calculated her 
claim settlement when her home suffered an escape of water. She believes that it under 
assessed her loss and she wants Tesco to reassess her compensation. 
i
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs B became aware of a flood to the bathroom in her home. The bathroom 
was situated above the kitchen and water had come through the ceiling, flooding the kitchen 
and under stairs cupboard. Water had penetrated the wall cupboards and had collected 
behind wallpaper, which she had to puncture to release it. Electrical items which had been in 
the kitchen were soaked and she thought them unusable. 
She contacted Tesco immediately and was given a claim reference number. Mrs B expected 
that Tesco would send a loss adjuster to her home. It soon became clear, however, that 
Tesco would not send a loss adjuster and would use a desk calculation tool to assess her 
loss, using information provided by Mrs B and based upon trade and material rates in her 
local area. 
Mrs B took photos of the damage and sent these to Tesco. 
Around 2 weeks after the escape of water, Mrs B spoke to an agent at Tesco. They 
discussed the items which had shown damage, and things like the type of flooring she had, 
size of room and materials used for flooring and work tops for example. 
The agent then entered the information obtained into the assessment tool and calculated a 
settlement offer to Mrs B of £2554.50. When the excesses for making a claim and the 
additional excess for escape of water were deducted, Mrs B was sent a cheque for 
£2154.50. 
Mrs B paid in the cheque to her account and commissioned some of the repair works. She 
later felt that the sum paid out was not sufficient to repair the kitchen to its pre-flood state 
and to replace all the kitchen units and items which had been deluged. 
She wrote an assessment of the costs she felt were not covered by the pay out and sent this 
to Tesco with a complaint in November 2019. She was concerned that the assessment tool 
was based on her postcode, rather than an in-person assessment of the damage and she 
considered that Tesco ought to pay her around a further £5500. 
Tesco sent Mrs B its final response to her complaint in November 2019. It did not uphold her 
complaint. It explained that the assessment tool used local information to calculate 
settlements, and that it would be happy to consider any additional works which she 
considered had not been covered, if she provided evidence of the damage being claimed for. 
Mrs B was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that Tesco had acted reasonably and in line with its policy terms when calculating 
its settlement offer. 
Mrs B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular, had regard to the photographs of damage provided by Mrs B to Tesco, 
and to the telephone call recordings available. 
In these call recordings the nature of the flood was discussed, and the agent took details of 
the damage which had occurred. He took rough measurements of the room and details of 
the plinth lengths and cupboards which Mrs B said had been affected. He then told Mrs B 
how much the settlement offer was, but advised that if any other areas of the property had 
been damaged then Mrs B could contact Tesco to have any further items considered. 
Mrs B and the agents also discussed that a toaster and carpet had been damaged, and the 
agent explained that if Mrs B was to claim for any contents then a further excess of £100 
wold apply. During that call Mrs B appeared to decide that she would not claim for contents 
as it would not be worthwhile. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and agree with my colleague that Tesco has acted in line 
with the policy requirements. Although I understand that Mrs B feels that by assessing her 
loss remotely and by reference to costs of repair in her area has resulted in a lesser 
settlement figure, I do not think that the manner of calculation was unfair. It is an industry 
standard approach where the business considers it disproportionate to appoint a loss 
adjuster. 
I also think that Tesco made plain that it would consider any further losses which could be 
evidenced, and that if Mrs B could show that repairs had cost her more than settled for, then 
they would consider making additional payments. 
Overall, I think Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in its process, and I do not ask it to do 
anything else (except that it should of course consider any additional losses which Mrs B can 
evidence, as it has offered to do). 
I appreciate that this decision may be disappointing for Mrs B but I hope that it makes clear 
why I have reached it.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman