DRN-3211009
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc have charged interest on her account.
What happened
Miss L noticed a transaction on her Capital One credit account which she felt was fraudulent 
and which resulted in Capital One seeking to recover the money for the transaction from the 
merchant. The merchant did eventually reimburse the disputed transaction amount back to 
Miss Ls account, but while the balance was outstanding on Miss Ls account, Capital One 
charged interest on it. This led to further charges of interest in subsequent months. Miss L 
wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Miss Ls complaint, but they felt that theyd charged interest to Miss 
Ls account fairly and in line with the terms of the account. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. Miss L wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Capital One 
had acted unreasonably by charging the interest to Miss Ls account that they had, and so 
they also didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Miss L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L referred a separate complaint to this service relating to Capital Ones handing of her 
claim for a reimbursement of the disputed account transaction. However, a decision was 
issued by one of my colleague ombudsman that this service wasnt able to consider the 
merits of that complaint because Miss L had referred the complaint to this service outside of 
the time limits by which this service must abide.
This means that Im also unable to consider the merits of this aspect of Miss Ls complaint, 
which in turn means that my review of this complaint about how Capital One have charged 
interest to Miss Ls account is limited to whether Capital One have applied the interest to the 
account fairly in regard to a reasonable process and also in my consideration of Miss Ls 
personal and financial circumstances at that time.
Before the disputed transaction took place, Miss Ls account had a zero balance. On 22 
March 2020, the disputed transaction occurred, which took the outstanding balance on Miss 
Ls account to approximately £250. This meant that when the next account statement was 
produced, which took place on 2 April 2020, this balance was showing as outstanding and a 
minimum monthly payment of £7.45 was required to be paid by Miss L to the account 
because of it. This minimum payment was due to be paid by 28 April 2020.
On 9 April 2020, upon receipt of the account statement, Miss L contacted Capital One and 
disputed the transaction. But the outstanding balance remained present on Miss Ls Capital 
One account up to and beyond 28 April 2020 - the date by which the minimum monthly 
payment was required on the account.
Capital One have stated that because the minimum monthly payment required on the 
account wasnt made by the due date, the terms of the credit account meant that interest 
became chargeable on the outstanding balance. Having reviewed the terms of the account, 
Im satisfied that Capital Ones position here is correct, and so I dont feel that Capital One 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in regard to following a process as dictated by the account 
terms and commencing charging interest against the balance of the account when they did.
Capital One have also confirmed that when a dispute transaction reimbursement attempt is 
successful, such as via a Section 75 claim, then its usually the case that any interest thats 
accrued on the disputed balance is reimbursed to the account by Capital One. This seems 
reasonable to me, because where a dispute has been resolved successfully in an account 
holders favour, then theres a tacit acknowledgement that the account holder doesnt bear 
any sizeable responsibility for what has taken place.
However, in this instance, while the disputed money was eventually reimbursed to Miss Ls 
Capital One account by the merchant in question, this reimbursement wasnt because of a 
dispute process initiated by Capital One but rather was at the discretion of the merchant 
themselves.
Capital One have confirmed they dont reimburse accrued interest in these circumstances. 
Again this seems reasonable to me, given that there are several reasons why the merchant 
would elect to reimburse the money and that not all of these reasons necessarily include that 
the account holder shouldnt be considered as responsible for what has taken place. An 
example of this may be that the money was reimbursed by the merchant as a gesture of 
goodwill, which includes no acceptance of responsibility on the merchants behalf but can be 
undertaken by the merchant in the interests of maintaining favourable customer relations.
As such, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable of Capital One to have not reimbursed 
the interest that accrued on Miss Ls account because of the disputed transaction in this 
instance. 
Miss L has explained to this service that she was experiencing very difficult and traumatic 
personal circumstances at that time, which she feels havent been sufficiently taken into 
account here. Having considered Miss Ls testimony in this regard I sympathise with the 
position that she faced at that time. But I dont feel that those circumstances, however 
difficult for Miss L, should have reasonably affected the process which Im satisfied Capital 
One fairly followed in regard to the account interest, as explained above.
Finally, in her correspondence with this service in regard to this complaint, Miss L has made 
repeated references to aspects of her other complaint which, as explained earlier, one of my 
colleague ombudsmen decided wasnt a complaint that this service could consider the merits 
of. Id therefore like to reiterate to Miss L that consequent to my colleagues decision, Im 
also am unable to consider the merits of Miss Ls other complaint and confirm again that my 
review of this complaint is limited to whether Capital One followed a fair process in regard to 
the interest charged on her account. 
As I hope Ive been able to explain clearly above, I do feel that Capital One have followed a 
fair and reasonable process in regard to the charging and non-reimbursement of the interest 
on Miss Ls account in this instance, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint.I realise this wont be the outcome Miss L was wanting, but I trust that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman