DRN-2877951
The complaint
Mr N complains about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (APS) and 
the way they handled his direct debit indemnity claim.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr N realised the pet insurance policy hed taken out with an insurer, who 
Ill refer to as T, had been set up in the wrong name. This meant if hed needed to claim on 
the policy, he wouldnt have been covered. Mr N was unhappy with this, and he wanted the 
premiums hed paid returned to him.
So, Mr N contacted APS to raise a direct debit indemnity claim. But initially, APS rejected the 
claim as they didnt think it was one that fell within the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme rules. 
They advised Mr N to return to T to arrange a refund.
But a few days later, Mr N provided APS with an email from T, which showed T admitting 
their fault and confirming they wouldnt dispute a direct debit indemnity claim from his bank 
when it was received. After receiving this, APS provided Mr N with a refund for the total 
premiums hed paid. But Mr N was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr N thought APS had acted unfairly by not processing the claim after hed made it initially. 
He thought APS failure to do so had meant hed needed to spend time chasing both 
themselves and T, which had impacted his mental health. So, he wanted to be compensated 
for this and the cost of the calls hed made. He was also unhappy with the way hed been 
spoken to by APS and wanted to be compensated for the upset hed been caused.
APS didnt agree. They thought theyd made the right decision when declining Mr Ns claim 
initially as the dispute was a service issue with Mr N and T. And they thought theyd acted 
fairly by refunding Mr N when he provided evidence to show T wouldnt challenge a claim 
made by them. They also thought theyd been polite and professional when they spoke to Mr 
N. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr N remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the upset Mr 
N wouldve felt when realising hed been paying for a policy that had been set up correctly. 
But she didnt think this was the fault of APS. She thought APS initial decision to decline the 
claim was fair. And she thought theyd acted reasonably when they agreed to refund the 
premiums Mr N had paid when he provided correspondence from T confirming they wouldnt 
challenge a claim. And she didnt think shed seen evidence to show APS had been rude to 
Mr N, or corresponded with him unreasonably. So, she didnt think APS needed to do 
anything more.
Mr N didnt agree. He maintained his view that his claim was covered by the Direct Debit 
Guarantee, so the claim shouldnt have been declined in the first place. And that Ns 
decision to decline meant hed needed to chase a refund himself, which had impacted his 
mental health. So, he wanted to be compensated for this. As Mr N didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr N. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been upsetting for Mr N to discover hed been paying monthly premiums for an 
insurance policy provided by T that was set up in the wrong name. I can understand Mr Ns 
concern about what wouldve happened if hed needed to claim on the policy during that 
time. So, I can appreciate why Mr N wanted a refund of these premiums and to seek 
alternative insurance with a different insurer. And as Mr Ns bank, I can understand why Mr 
N decided to turn to APS to secure a refund of his premiums.
But for me to say APS have done something wrong, Id need to see they failed to process 
his direct debit indemnity claim in line with the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme rules when 
they chose to decline it initially. Or, if they did, that they acted unfairly by doing so. And Id 
also need to see evidence to show their communication with Mr N was unreasonable. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the direct debit indemnity claim Mr N submitted to APS after a discussion with 
them. This explains that Mr N was aware T were taking payments for an insurance policy 
with them. But the policy was set up in the wrong name, meaning the policy wouldnt have 
been valid if Mr N had needed to make a claim. 
The Direct Debit Guarantee scheme rules explain that claims can be made if there are 
issues with the actual direct debit itself. For example, if the incorrect amount was taken or if 
it had been taken on the wrong day. The rules also explain the guarantee cannot be used to 
address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
In this situation, Mr N wasnt saying he was unaware of the direct debit. Or, that the amount 
being taken was incorrect. Mr N was unhappy that T had set up his policy incorrectly, using 
the wrong name. I think this was a dispute between Mr N and T, and so fell outside of the 
Direct Debit Guarantee. So, I think APS were correct to initially decline Mr Ns indemnity 
claim, and I cant say they did anything wrong when doing so.
But I can appreciate why Mr N may dispute this, as APS decided to process his claim 
following correspondence he sent them from T. But APS have explained they did this as T 
had confirmed they wouldnt challenge a claim made by APS, which Mr N had already told T 
hed made. APS have confirmed because of this, they decided to refund the premiums to 
prevent Mr N from having to chase T for a refund any further. APS didnt have to take this 
action and by doing so, I think it showed APS attempts to acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr T. 
I understand Mr T is unhappy he had to return to T to obtain the correspondence he 
provided APS. And I recognise it wouldve been stressful for Mr N, and the impact it wouldve 
had on his mental health as hes explained. But I dont think any error APS made led to Mr N 
having to spend more time chasing a refund. In fact, I think their actions led to Mr N 
receiving a refund sooner than may have been the case. Because of this, I dont think APS 
need to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.Ive then thought about the way APS communicated with Mr N. Ive seen the e-mails APS 
sent to Mr N, and notes of the calls he held with them. And having considered these, Ive 
seen no evidence to show APS were accusatory or personal attacking. I can understand why 
Mr N would be happy with the information provided, as APS were declining a claim he 
thought should be upheld, but I think the tone of the e-mails are polite and professional. So, I 
dont think APS need to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr N was hoping for. But as Ive explained, I dont think 
APS made an error in the way they handled Mr Ns claim. The actions of APS resulted in Mr 
N receiving a refund of his premiums in a timelier manner than may have been possible if 
hed continued directly with T. And APS arent at fault for the error T made. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman