DRN-3585674
The complaint
Mrs G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc are trying to force her to use technology she does
not wish to use in order to verify that her online transactions are genuine.
What happened
HSBC informed Mrs G that new payment regulations had been introduced to keep
customers money safe when they shop online using card payments. They said that
additional steps may be required to verify that it is the customer who is using their card,
through a process called Verified by Visa (VbV). So in order for Mrs G to verify a transaction
was made by herself, she may have to enter a code online when prompted.
HSBC initially explained that there were two ways to do this. One was to have the code sent
by a text message to a mobile phone, another method was to log onto the HSBC mobile
application to verify a payment. But Mrs G does not own a mobile phone, so she would be
unable to use these options. HSBC later introduced a third option - for her to use one of
HSBCs card reader devices, although HSBC said this option would not be available until
November 2021.
As Mrs G does not own a mobile phone then the first two options would not be available to
her and she did not want to get a mobile phone for this purpose. Mrs G does not want a card
reader either. As a temporary measure, HSBC said they would be able to verify her
transactions online via email for a limited number of transactions, until the card reader was
able to be sent to her.
Mrs G made a complaint to HSBC. She said she did not want to be forced to use technology
to verify herself and HSBC should not stop her using her money as she legitimately wanted
to use it.
Mrs G made a complaint to HSBC, but they did not uphold her complaint. They explained
again that she would have to verify herself via one of the three options they had told her. Mrs
G tried to communicate with HSBC further on this issue, but they referred her to Visa as
HSBC told her that they cant remove the verification process from her account or have any
control over this.
Mrs G contacted Visa, who told her that each Visa card issuer manages their own
cardholder registration, updates, unlocking, supported browsers, changes to enrolment
status for VbV, as well as all account related matters. This included the ongoing updates of
VbV. They also said that when activating VbV or using a password to shop online, the
cardholder is always interacting directly with their issuer, not Visa. Mrs G sent further emails
to HSBC about the matter, but she said they didnt respond to some of her emails, so she
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He explained to Mrs G the Payment
Service Regulations and he concluded that HSBC had not acted unfairly or unreasonable
towards Mrs G as they had followed the regulations by putting controls in place to verify that
their customer is the one genuinely making the transaction.
Mrs G asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said if HSBC were able to
offer her the solution to be verified via email permanently, then she would agree to this and
this would be the only acceptable solution for her.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial
business has failed their customer in any way.
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right
with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to
make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the
role of the regulator.
I want to be clear to Mrs G that I cant instruct HSBC to amend their processes for
verification online, as this is a business decision for HSBC, with what systems they choose
to use and how they operate them in order to follow the regulations they have to follow. So I
cant ask them to verify Mrs G by email, when this is not one of their permanent ways to
verify a customer. Only the regulator can make HSBC change the way they act in this
regard.
While I cant ask HSBC to change their systems, I have looked into whether they have
treated her fairly during the course of the events that unfolded. But Im not persuaded that
HSBC did treat Mrs G fairly and Ill explain why.
Mrs G was in contact with HSBC about the VbV process. But the member of staff she was
emailing, told her that HSBC had no control over this process and to contact Visa. This
inconvenienced Mrs G by contacting Visa, but Visa said that each Visa card issuer manages
their own updates, supported browsers, changes to enrolment status for VbV etc. So as Mrs
G had contacted HSBC about trying to get them to stop verifying her this way, she should
not have been referred to Visa when they would not be able to control how HSBC met their
regulations to verify their customers online transactions.
Because Mrs G was told this information by HSBC, this meant she had to send follow up
emails to HSBC, to try and find out who was responsible for the process, which were
sometimes not responded to. So not only was she inconvenienced by being referred to Visa
when there was no need to do this, but she would have also been distressed by the
incorrect/conflicting information HSBC had given her, as HSBC would flag the transactions
which needed further verification. She would have also been distressed by the lack of
response to some of her emails as this could appear that HSBC were not concerned about
her thoughts about the matter.
So, what I would have expected HSBC to do here, is to apologise to Mrs G for directing her
to Visa when Visa couldnt help with her query and for not responding to some of her emails.
While ultimately, this wouldnt have resulted in HSBC offering Mrs G the option she wanted 
the permanent email verification, it would have brought closure to the matter a lot soonerand Mrs G would not have been inconvenienced further or be distressed by the lack of
response or incorrect information.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. As Ive already explained,
Im unable to ask HSBC to change how their customers are verified. I asked HSBC if they
had sent Mrs G a card reader. They confirmed they hadnt done so as Mrs G indicated she
wouldnt use one. Looking at an email Mrs G sent HSBC in May 2021 she has said I am
only accepting your offer of a card reader because I have no choice, so HSBC should send
her a card reader, if they havent already done so. Im satisfied that HSBC should also pay
Mrs G compensation for the impact HSBCs poor customer service had on her. Im satisfied
that £200 would be reasonable compensation.
I say this as Mrs G had been directed to Visa, which would have inconvenienced her, who
wouldnt have been able to resolve her query, then she waited for responses from HSBC
which sometimes werent forthcoming, which would have been distressing for her. So it
follows I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mrs G.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs G said she had nothing to add to the provisional decision. HSBC did not reply 
to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask HSBC to send Mrs G a card reader if they 
havent already done so and to pay Mrs G £200 for distress and inconvenience. Im still 
satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should send Mrs G a card reader if they 
havent already done so and pay Mrs G £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman