DRN-1921008
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont refund the £9,800 she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs G agreed to buy a caravan shed seen listed on an internet auction site, so she went into 
a Bank of Ireland branch to make the payment for the purchase. Mrs G was signed up for 
internet banking while in the branch. And the payment was then made, via internet banking, 
from her current account to the bank account details the seller had given her.
As the caravan wasnt delivered when she was told it would be and she didnt get any 
response from the seller, Mrs G called Bank of Ireland a few days later to report the payment 
as a scam and ask that her money be refunded.
Bank of Ireland investigated but didnt think it could have done anything further to prevent 
the scam and didnt think it should be held responsible for Mrs G falling victim to it. It also 
said it had done all it could to help recover the money, but had been told by the bank the 
money was sent to that no funds remained. Mrs G wasnt happy with Bank of Irelands 
response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Bank of Ireland ought to have been 
concerned that Mrs G was at risk of financial harm, and so taken steps to look into things 
further. And that, if it had done this, the scam wouldve been prevented. So they 
recommended Bank of Ireland refund the payment, plus interest, and pay Mrs G £300 
compensation. Bank of Ireland disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. That was the case in May 2019, and remains so now, and I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
And its not in dispute that Mrs G authorised the payment. She says she made the payment 
and Bank of Irelands records show the payment was made via her internet banking. So 
while she didnt intend for the money to go to the scammers, the starting position is that 
Bank of Ireland acted correctly in processing the payment, Mrs G is liable for it and Bank of 
Ireland doesnt have to refund it to her.
But that is not the end of the story:  
Regulated firms like Bank of Ireland are also required to conduct their business with 
due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements.  In May 2019 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through customer 
due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of 
the relationship).   
The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty). I am mindful, however, that 
the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case and I am not suggesting Quincecare applies in 
this case, only to make the point that the broad legal position that a bank is expected 
to process payments that a customer authorises is not absolute and Quincecare (like 
the other matters I have referred to here) is an example of that. 
 
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in May 2019, I consider firms should in any 
event have taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
Some of this good industry practice has been codified into more formal reports or codes. 
And Bank of Ireland has said that, as it hasnt subscribed to all of these codes, it shouldnt 
be held to the standards in them. But I think these reports and codes simply set out what 
was already good industry practice, rather than created new standards. And so I dont think its unreasonable to consider whats set out in them when looking at what was good industry 
practice at the time.
Having looked at the evidence of the previous activity on Mrs Gs account, I think this 
payment of £9,800 was unusual and out of character. The payment was for a relatively large 
sum of money. The statements for Mrs Gs account show no other payments were made 
from the account in the previous twelve months and that the payments made before that 
were for relatively small amounts. And Mrs G had never made an online payment from her 
account before. So I think Bank of Ireland should have identified that this payment was 
unusual or out of character and so Mrs G was potentially as risk of fraud or a scam as a 
result.
I therefore think Bank of Ireland should have carried out additional checks, before 
processing the payment, to satisfy itself that Mrs G was not at risk.
I accept its not for this service to dictate the checks Bank of Ireland should do or the 
questions it should ask. But Bank of Ireland should take steps designed to help protect its 
customers from the risk of financial harm. Particularly given the size of this payment and how 
unusual it was, I think in these circumstances it would be reasonable to expect these checks 
to include questions about the purpose of the payment and whether the customer had seen 
the vehicle they were buying in person. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not 
satisfied Bank of Ireland asked questions like these. So Im not satisfied it took sufficient 
steps to check whether Mrs G was potentially at risk of financial harm from this payment.
Theres not been any suggestion that Mrs G had been coached on what to tell Bank of 
Ireland or was hiding the purpose of the payment in any way. So if it had asked further 
questions, I think Bank of Ireland wouldve found out that the payment was for the purchase 
of a caravan and that Mrs G hadnt seen it in person. On finding this out, I think Bank of 
Ireland should then reasonably have asked further questions, particularly around why Mrs G 
hadnt seen the caravan in person. And I think it should have warned her about the increase 
in scams of this type in recent years and the risks of sending money to someone she didnt 
know.
Mrs G told us she didnt have online banking before it was set up to make this payment, so 
she was clearly inexperienced with it. And from what shes said, I dont think she was 
confident sending money electronically. So I think warnings from Bank of Ireland about 
similar scams and the risks of sending money in this way would have carried a lot of weight 
with her. And so I dont think shed have gone ahead with the payment if shed been given 
these warnings.
Bank of Ireland has said Mrs G didnt follow guidance from the internet auction site, so it 
doesnt think any further warnings it gave would have stopped her making the payment 
either. But the guidance its mentioned is in a separate part of the auction website, so its not 
clear if Mrs G would have seen it when looking at the listing of the caravan. And in any 
event, I think warnings from Bank of Ireland wouldve carried more weight as they wouldve 
been more specific to Mrs Gs circumstances, delivered in person and from her bank  who I 
think Mrs G was more likely to trust about financial security. So I still think these warnings 
from Bank of Ireland would have meant Mrs G didnt go ahead with the payment.
I also dont agree with Bank of Ireland that Mrs G should bear some responsibility for her 
loss. This was a sophisticated scam with a vehicle listed on a genuine internet auction site. A 
bank transfer is a legitimate payment method for that type of purchase. And while Mrs G 
could have carried out more checks on the caravan or made sure to see it in person before 
agreeing to buy it, I dont think she acted unreasonably in not doing so.And so if Bank of Ireland had taken further steps to check whether Mrs G was at risk of 
financial harm, as I think it should have done, I dont think Mrs G would have lost the £9,800 
that she did. Bank of Ireland should therefore refund this £9,800 to her.
Mrs G has also now been without this money for some time. And so I also think Bank of 
Ireland should pay her compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year, from the date 
of the payment until the date it is refunded.
And if the payment had not been sent, Mrs G wouldnt have suffered the distress of losing 
her money and of not knowing whether she would get it back for some time. I appreciate 
Bank of Ireland wasnt responsible for the fraud itself. But if Bank of Ireland had carried out 
the checks I think it needed to, Mrs G wouldnt have gone on to suffer this distress. So I think 
Bank of Ireland should also pay her £300 as compensation for the distress shes been 
caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. My decision is that Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc should
Refund Mrs G the £9,800 she lost from the payment
Pay Mrs G 8% simple interest a year on that amount from the time of the payment 
until the time its repaid
Pay Mrs G £300 compensation
HM Revenue & Customs may require Bank of Ireland to deduct tax from the interest it pays 
Mrs G. If it does, and if Mrs G requests it, Bank of Ireland should provide her with a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman