DRN-2796496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd (TBFM) failed to
provide any advice or service after its Appointed Representative (AR) was deauthorised and
was not therefore entitled to take ongoing fees. They also dispute that it was entitled to
automatically inherit the contract they had signed with the AR.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C signed a contract with NFM in 2012. This guaranteed a dedicated advisor,
six-monthly valuations, six-monthly portfolio rebalancing (if agreed) and annual review
meetings of their objectives, portfolio etc. The fee was 1% of their investment holdings, with
a minimum of £1,500 each.
While the contract was clearly stated as being with NFM, there was a reference in the first
page footer stating that NFM was an appointed rep of TBFM.
In August 2017, fairly soon after Mr and Mrs Cs latest annual review, NFM was
deauthorised. They say that their advisor warned them of this but did not say that their
contract would be taken over by TBFM. They therefore assumed the fees would lapse.
In December 2017 TBFM sent a generic letter to NFMs former clients saying it had taken
over their contracts and was available for any queries. Mr and Mrs C say they did not receive
a copy of this letter.
In February 2018 TBFM sent Mr and Mrs C a six-monthly valuation. According to an
advisors note, he had tried calling Mr and Mrs C but got no reply.
From what I have read, there was no further contact or attempt at contact until TBFM sent
another valuation in February 2019.
Mr and Mrs C say that in May 2019 they were discussing their latest investment valuations
(sent by the provider) and noticed that TBFM were receiving ongoing advisory fees. They
assumed this was a mistake and contacted TBFM.
TBFM replied, stating that they were entitled to these as NFM had been an AR and so it was
entitled to inherit their contract.
Mr and Mrs C did not agree, and raised various objections which, in my view, clearly
constituted a complaint under the regulators definition of this term. TBFM did not
immediately recognise or acknowledge this; nor did it fully address Mr and Mrs Cs concerns.
It eventually replied, saying that Mr and Mrs C could complain to the Financial Conduct
Authority if they were unhappy.
In doing so, TBFM ignored its clear regulated requirement to provide Mr and Mrs C with a
Final Response Letter (FRL) in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority rules; it did
not explain that Mr and Mrs C needed to make their complaint to this service nor provide the
necessary information about how to contact this service (or the FCA).
After Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service, an investigator at this service
attempted a mediated solution. She felt that TBFM were entitled to inherit the contract Mr
and Mrs C had signed with NFM; that they had received an annual review shortly before the
takeover and that TBFM had sought to make contact and explain it was not their advisor.
She therefore felt it was entitled to the fees taken between August 2017 and August 2018.
But, she said, TBFM had then made no attempt to contact Mr and Mrs C, including to
arrange the annual review which they were contractually entitled to in August 2018.
She therefore proposed that TBFM should refund the fees from August 2018 onwards.
TBFM agreed but Mr and Mrs C did not, saying:
They never received any communication from TBFM beyond the valuations which 
were merely those provided by the provider
TBFM has not provided sufficient evidence to the contrary; why wasnt the crucial 
letter, informing that a business theyd had no previous contact with would now be 
taking fees from them, sent registered post and why is there no phone record of the 
alleged call? And why was there not further attempts to contact them?
Given the disgraceful way TBFM dealt with their complaint, they had no confidence in 
their evidence of the alleged letter and call
All their responses have been rude, aggressive an un-businesslike
TBFMs claim that it managed their investments was untrue; the provider did this and 
no alterations were made
Why didnt the investigator conclude that TBFM should pay 8% interest on the final 
years fees as this is what this service believes is appropriate?
Nor did she suggest any compensation for the way it breached the rules or for the 
way they had been treated
To settle the complaint they would accept £3,000
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
Firstly, I do not accept TBFMs argument that Mr and Mrs C ought to have been aware that
in signing a contract with NFM they were also becoming one of its clients. The contract
clearly stated they were agreeing to employ NFM as their advisors and what service was
guaranteed in return. I can see no reason why they would have read  or understood the
potential implications of - the one-line reference to NFM being as an AR of TBFM hidden in
the footer.
Given TBFM was the regulated company, it was responsible for NFMs contract and should
have ensured this was made clear. So, whether it was legally entitled to inherit NFMs
contracts or not, I am satisfied it did not give Mr and Mrs C sufficient information to make this
clear to them. I dont therefore accept that it was entitled to rely on this original document
when starting to take fees after NFMs demise, without Mr and Mrs Cs explicit consent.
Mr and Mrs C say that their advisor at NFM simply told them that the business was stopping
trading, making no mention of TBFM. I have no reason to doubt their evidence. Given that
NFM was just an Associated Rep of TBFM, it was TBFMs responsibility to ensure NFM
informed its clients that they would now be represented by TBFM and continue paying fees 
but to TBFM now on.
TBFM make reference to some problems surrounding this change and a difficulty in
obtaining full files from NFM. This made it even more important that it proactively wrote to
former NFM customers in August 2017, if not before, making clear what was happening. It
did not do so.Instead, it sent out a pro-forma letter to former NFM clients more than four months later,
merely stating it would take some time to get up to speed with things. As Mr and Mrs C were
paying for a dedicated advisor as part of their contract, TBFM should have allocated
someone to liaise directly with them from the date it began taking fees in August 2017; not to
do so by 21 December 2017 when it finally informed clients of the change is, in my view, a
breach of their contract.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs C received an annual review shortly before the August 2017
change. So I dont think they should be entitled to a refund of the entire fees from August
2017 on, as they have argued. But I do think, for the reasons I have referred to above, that
TBFM should refund the fees it took from 21 December 2017, the latest point at which it
ought to have allocated an advisor to them and instructed that advisor to make every effort
to contact Mr and Mrs C as a matter of urgency.
From what I have read, it probably had no meaningful information about Mr and Mrs Cs
investment needs and objectives, the suitability of their portfolio or whether they wished to
pay for ongoing advice; and so it could not safely assume their current portfolio was correctly
balanced. It was therefore not fair or reasonable to continue taking fees in the absence of
such information, knowledge and active consent.
After this services involvement, TBFM acknowledged that it did not meet the key
requirement to conduct an annual review in August 2018 and agreed to refund the 2018/19
fees. I agree with this. I also intend to instruct TBFM to pay 8% simple interest per annum on
all the fees it deducted from 21 December 2017 onwards. This interest should be applied
from the days each fee was taken to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Finally, as I explained in the background section, TBFM made it difficult for Mr and Mrs C to
bring their complaint to this service, ignoring all the regulatory requirements. I also think their
responses were far from satisfactory, ignoring various key points made by Mr and Mrs C. I
therefore intend to instruct it to pay an additional £200 in lieu of the poor service in this area.
Ignoring regulatory requirements and failing to provide clients with the correct information on
how to make a complaint is a serious issue and clearly damaged Mr and Mrs Cs ability to
pursue their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C accepted my provisional findings. TBFM did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, I am satisfied that this complaint should 
be upheld wit compensation as specified.
Putting things right
TBFM should refund the fees it took from 21 December 2017 and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to each fee from the date it was taken to the date of settlement of this complaint.
It should also pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused by its extremely poor customer 
service including a failure to inform Mr and Mrs C of their rights.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and instruct Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd to pay 
compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman