DRN-1739708
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the decision by Great Lakes Insurance SE when considering a claim 
for damage to her electric recliner chair. 
What happened
Mrs H purchased a sofa set in November 2017. She also bought a five year furniture guard 
insurance policy covering Upholstery leather stains, accidental damage and structure. 
The terms and conditions of the policy explained the policy would cover:
Structural defects to fabric or leather furniture caused by:
Lifting or peeling of the hide on leather furniture
 
The policy also explained:
We will not pay the claim costs arising from:
3. Stains and damage that is consistent with wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually;
The claims procedure stated In order to make a claim you must notify the service provider 
as soon as possible after the incident, and in any event no later than 7 working days after 
the occurrence. Any delay in notification may result in permanent damage and will invalidate 
your claim.
On 28 June 2019 Mrs H contacted Great Lakes about making a claim. It was recorded 
Don\'t know how the leather has started to peel off Same is on the armchairs.
On 10 July Great Lakes sent an engineer to inspect the damage. The engineer inspected an 
electric recliner chair. The environment was recorded as average; the condition of the 
electric recliner chair poor: and the maintenance good. 
The engineers report concluded On inspection I found that the front of the seat has lost the 
top colour. Customer uses cleaning kit provided by the retailers. Customer cannot remember 
any accidents or spillages. This has happened over the last month or so. The liability 
explanation was recorded as wear and tear, and the claim was declined.
Mrs H complained to Great Lakes about their decision to decline her claim. Great Lakes 
responded to Mrs Hs complaint on 22 October saying Whilst the policy does cover lifting or 
peeling of leather under the structural defects section, in this instance, as the technician has 
noted, the leather has not peeled or lifted, they have identified colour loss which is a 
separate issue, colour loss occurs when the tanning or pigment is affected however 
structurally there is no fault with the leather. Colour loss is not covered by the warranty.Mrs H was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to this service. The 
investigator found that Great Lakes hadnt acted fairly in applying the policy terms, and 
recommended that they arrange for repairs to take place in line with the engineers 
recommendations had the claim been allowed. Great Lakes didnt agree with these findings 
saying that the policy does not provide any cover for colour loss as a peril. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In the final response letter, Great Lakes commented on the claims process, and timescales 
for notifying Great Lakes of a claim. Mrs H contacted Great Lakes on 28 June 2019. The 
engineer carried out an inspection on 11 July. At the time of inspection Mrs H said the 
damage had happened in the last month or so. The policy terms say a claim must be 
reported to Great Lakes no later than 7 working days after the occurrence. In considering 
the date Mrs H contacted Great Lakes, I dont think this timescale was unreasonable, and 
should have an impact on Great Lakess decision on the outcome of the claim. 
When Mrs H reported the claim, she said the leather has started to peel. However instead 
of considering the claim under the policy term covering this type of damage, the engineer 
reached the conclusion that the damage was wear and tear. I wouldve expected the 
engineers findings to include comments on whether there was any evidence of the leather 
peeling, and why this insured event wasnt covered by what hed seen. Instead, the engineer 
concluded that the damage wouldnt be covered because of the exclusion relating to wear 
and tear- a term which Great Lakes have since said wasnt the main reason for declining the 
claim. 
In their final response letter, Great Lakes commented that colour loss is not covered by the 
warranty. So Ive considered whether Great Lakes have acted fairly in declining Mrs Hs 
claim for this reason. 
I accept that leather goods are often affected by colour loss over time. However if relying on 
this as a reason for declining a claim, I would expect Great Lakes to show clear evidence of 
the damage being caused by colour loss, as opposed to the insured event of lifting or 
peeling of the hide on leather furniture. Although the final response letter provides details 
about colour loss being the primary reason for the claim being declined, the engineers 
report doesnt provide any reasons to support this. 
As key evidence in determining the claim, I wouldve expected Great Lakes to have 
questioned the engineers findings for clarification on whether the damage showed any signs 
of lifting or peeling, as recorded by Great Lakes when they were notified of the claim. Also, 
there is evidence contrary to the engineers findings about colour loss which wasnt 
questioned by the engineer or Great Lakes- such as Mrs H only using the retailer provided 
cleaning products to maintain and care for the recliner chair, and whether colour loss was 
consistent with the age and specification of the recliner chair. 
Having considered the age of the recliner chair, its condition at the time of inspection, and 
what Mrs H had explained about how it had been cared for, I think more shouldve been 
done to question why colour loss wouldve occurred on this furniture purchased less than two years ago. Although the engineer determined that the likely cause of damage was wear 
and tear, for the reasons explained, I dont think this was properly investigated at the time. 
So I dont think Great Lakes acted fairly by relying on this as a reason for declining the claim. 
Great Lakes later clarified that the main reason for declining the claim was because colour 
loss is not an insured event. It is for a customer to show that what theyve purchased is 
damaged. Mrs H did this by reporting her claim. Although Great Lakes disagreed with the 
claim falling within whats covered by the policy, I dont think they did enough to support this 
reason for declining the claim. Because of this, I think a fair outcome is for Great Lakes to 
arrange for repairs to take place in line with the engineers recommendations had the claim 
been allowed.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should arrange for repairs to take place in line with the engineers 
recommendations had the claim been allowed.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Great Lakes Insurance SE Limited should arrange for repairs to take place in line with the 
engineers recommendations had Mrs Hs claim been allowed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman