DRN-3194649
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and then closed his account. 
He says this caused him financial problems and upset. He wants NatWest to pay him 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr K had a current account with NatWest.
In March 2020, NatWest decided to review Mr Ks account. Whilst it completed its review the 
bank restricted Mr Ks access to the account. This meant Mr K wasnt able to use the money 
in it. At the time Mr K had just over £15,000 in his account.
Following its review NatWest decided to close Mr Ks account and gave him 14 days notice 
that he needed to make other banking arrangements. NatWest released Mr Ks some of 
Mr Ks balance to him on 23 March 2020 and the remaining funds on 6 April 2020.
Mr K complained to NatWest. He said he hadnt done anything which wouldve caused the 
bank to block and then his account. And having to wait for his funds to be released made 
things very difficult for him. He says he had to ask friends for money so that he could pay 
bills and at the time he was suffering from a serious health condition, which was made worse 
due to the banks actions. So, he says he was caused a great deal of stress and worry by 
the block and having to wait for the bank to let him have him have access to his money. 
NatWest said it hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed Mr Ks account. The bank also 
said it had closed Mr Ks account in line with the terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. He said NatWest hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had reviewed and closed Mr Ks account. Mr K disagreed. He says 
NatWest treated him unfairly especially as hed responded to their request for information 
about the money in his account promptly. He said he wants the bank to explain why it 
blocked his account in the first place and said  NatWest took too long to release his funds. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint come to me to decide. In March 2022 I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to partly uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
In it I said the following:
Ill deal first with NatWests decision to block and review Mr Ks account. As the investigator 
has already pointed out, NatWest have important legal and regulatory obligations they must 
meet when providing accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only 
apply to when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
I understand that Mr K wants NatWest to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account. But NatWest doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr K the reasons behind the account block, as 
much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr K this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
To comply with their responsibilities, NatWest will monitor accounts for activity which 
appears unusual or out of place. And may ask its customer to provide information about 
certain transactions. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account 
to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. And, considering the 
information I have available, I understand why NatWest carried out a review and I dont find 
their initial decision to restrict Mr Ks account was unreasonable. So, whilst I appreciate the 
restriction caused Mr K inconvenience and was upsetting, I cant say the bank treated Mr K 
unfairly when it placed Mr Ks account under review.
NatWest should, however, conduct a review and reach a decision in a timely manner  
without undue delay. The longer a customer doesnt have access to the money in their 
account, the greater the trouble, upset and financial harm they may suffer. Mr K says he 
wasnt able to access the money in his account for a number of weeks. And NatWest 
released his funds in two stages  £10,000 in cash in branch on 23 March 2020 and 
NatWest then sent him a cheque for the remaining balance on 6 April 2020. 
Mr K has explained that he sent NatWest the information it had asked him about the source 
of funds in his account for promptly. So, he cant understand why he had to wait so long for 
the bank to allow him access to his money. Hes said that he had to ask to borrow money 
from friends to pay his bills, which was stressful and upsetting. And said that at the time he 
was quite unwell, so NatWests actions made any already challenging time much more 
difficult for him. 
Ive looked at the timeline of events and what NatWest has said it was doing at the time. But 
I cant see any reason why the bank released Mr Ks money on two separate occasions, 
weeks apart. And why it took them more than a month to complete its review and release 
Mr Ks balance to him. Based on the limited information they have provided I cant fairly 
conclude they have acted as they should have. Instead, I find they have likely caused 
unreasonable delays and havent treated Mr K fairly. So, Im currently minded to find they 
should pay Mr K £150 compensation for the trouble and upset hes suffered.
Following its review NatWest decided to close Mr Ks account. Generally, its for banks to 
decide whether or not to offer or to continue to offer banking facilities to someone. As long 
as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, this service wont usually 
intervene. 
Mr Ks account was blocked from the early March 2020; he was unable to gain access to 
some of the funds in it until 23 March 2020. Whilst it was formally closed at the end of March 
2020 (with 14 days notice), I believe that it was effectively closed immediately on 2 March 
2020  since after that time Mr K couldnt use it. Having looked at all the evidence, I find this 
to be reasonable and in line with the terms of the account. So, I cant say NatWest treated 
Mr K unfairly when it closed his account.
To put things right I said NatWest should pay Mr K £150 compensation to resolve his 
complaint.
Mr K didnt provide any more information and accepted my provisional decision. NatWest 
didnt respond or provide anything further. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be partly upheld 
for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of 
this decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr K £150 for the trouble and upset caused by delays in 
not releasing his funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman