DRN-1211181
The complaint
Mrs Cs unhappy Mapfre Asistencia Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S. 
A. (Mapfre) turned down her claim on her travel insurance.
Other companies have been involved in this claim, but as Mapfre are responsible for it, Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs C was due to travel abroad with Mr C, but when waiting for the taxi to take 
them to the airport noticed a leak coming into their front room at 3am.
Mrs C said she couldnt leave her house for a week not knowing what the damage was and 
cancelled the holiday. She says she let the holiday company know as soon as possible and 
submitted a claim.
Mapfre turned down the claim. They quoted the relevant policy terms and said because her 
home wasnt uninhabitable then she didnt meet the terms or requirements. Because of this, 
they wouldnt pay out on the claim. Mrs C said she strongly disagreed with this and asked 
what else she could have done at 3am, when she didnt know what the problem was. 
Mapfre replied and said that while they appreciated Mrs C didnt know the severity of the 
issue at the time, there isnt cover under the terms of the policy. They added that every 
scenario cant be covered under an insurance policy, and because her home was habitable, 
theres no cover. Mrs C didnt accept this, so asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so but said the terms of Mrs Cs policy didnt cover this event, so 
she didnt ask Mapfre to pay the claim. Mrs C didnt agree with this, she said it was a lot of 
money for her to lose, and she just couldnt have left home at that time. Because of that, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive got a significant amount of sympathy for Mrs C in the situation she found herself in. The 
water leaking into her home was noticed just when she and her husband were getting ready 
to go off on a weeks cruise. And I take her point when she asks what else was she 
supposed to do. 
But, its important to say when considering a complaint about a claim thats been turned 
down, I need to look closely at what the policy terms actually cover. And if the policy terms 
dont cover Mrs Cs situation, then I cant fairly order Mapfre to pay the claim.
The policy terms effectively say theres cover if the cancellation of the trip is necessary and 
unavoidable and it meets one of the relevant terms. 
Mrs C in her contact to us has described the leak as a drip. I can understand why shed 
have been concerned by this, but it doesnt appear to have been a significant leak of water 
into her house. So, Im not satisfied this event would meet the terms of necessary and 
unavoidable cancellation.
But even if I were satisfied by this then her claim also has to meet one of the relevant terms. 
Amongst other things those terms are her home has to be made uninhabitable because of 
storm, flood or burst pipes. 
Mrs C has shown the actual problem to be a leak from her roof which, as Ive said above, 
shes described as a drip. Under the circumstances it doesnt seem likely to me Mrs C 
would have thought this was because of one of the covered conditions. And there hasnt 
been any suggestion her home became uninhabitable because of this leak.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said carefully. And while I understand this will be 
really disappointing for her, there are no terms in the policy she had with Mapfre that 
covered her for this situation. 
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Mapfre to meet Mrs Cs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman