DRN-3230758
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax misled him about the amount it 
would lend when it issued a decision in principle (DIP). He paid a non-refundable deposit for 
a property he agreed to buy at auction. Halifax then said the amount Mr S wanted to borrow 
wasnt affordable and declined to lend. 
What happened
Mr S contacted Halifax in August 2021 about taking out a mortgage. He was issued with two 
DIPs, one in his sole name and one in joint names with his wife. Based on this, Mr S agreed 
to buy a property at auction and paid a non-refundable deposit of about £6,300.
Mr S made a mortgage application. Halifax said it couldnt include all of his tax credit and 
benefit income in his application. Mr S says Halifax should have known that when it issued 
the DIP. He says its error left him in a difficult position, trying to fund his purchase.
Mr S also complains about the way Halifax responded to his concerns, and that it cant 
provide information about the income that was included for the purpose of the DIP. He feels 
Halifax only cares about protecting itself and not about his distress or his complaint.
Our investigator said the DIP is intended to give customers an idea of how much they might 
be able to borrow. It isnt an offer to lend, which is subject to the application process, 
evidence of income and expenditure and meeting lending criteria. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the investigator made assumptions and hadnt answered all of his 
points. In particular, about why tax credits and disability living allowance were included in his 
income for the DIP when the adviser should have known Halifax doesnt allow this. 
Mr S said Halifax offered £50 for wrongly closing his complaint but has only paid £25.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. In keeping with this, I wont comment on 
each point raised. I should also make it clear that we look at complaints from a neutral 
position. We dont represent the customer or the lender. 
Mr S was in a difficult position. He agreed to buy a property and paid a non-refundable 
deposit. Halifax declined his mortgage application, leaving him struggling to find the money 
to pay the balance. Mr S feels strongly that he wouldnt have been in this position if Halifax 
hadnt issued a DIP suggesting it would lend to him. 
Halifax says it doesnt keep copies of DIPs or the information provided to produce the DIP. It 
doesnt have to do this, and so I dont draw any adverse inferences from it. Halifax did 
provide recordings of the calls when the information was provided for the DIPs. 
I should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr S says errors were made with the DIPs  benefit income was wrongly included and he 
was issued with two DIPs which he says shouldnt have happened. 
I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to issue two DIPs. One was in Mr Ss sole name and one 
was in joint names. Mr S said he wanted the two DIPs to discuss with his wife how to go 
forwards. In fact, the system worked as Halifax described  the first DIP was deleted from 
Halifaxs system when the second DIP was issued. 
Ive listened to the call recordings, including at the times Mr S has highlighted. I understand 
why he says disability living allowance was included as the adviser lists this as part of the 
income. Halifax says income from disability living allowance wasnt included for the DIP  it 
says it re-calculated the potential loan amount and this would have been higher if it had been 
included. I know Mr S disputes this. But on balance I dont think the disability living 
allowance was included. 
Nonetheless, when Mr S made a mortgage application in his sole name it failed affordability 
tests. Benefit income (which was included in the DIP) wasnt included in the affordability 
assessment. This was because when it verified the benefit income Halifax found it was in 
joint names. 
Mr S asked that this income remain in the calculation when the DIP was changed into his 
sole name. I dont agree with Halifax that this in itself makes it Mr Ss responsibility. But I 
dont think its fair for Mr S to say Halifax should have known the benefit income was in joint 
names and would be excluded from a sole application. Mr S had said earlier in the call that 
the benefit income could be assigned to his wife as it was a joint account. The adviser could 
have taken this to refer to the account that the benefits were paid into. 
Having listened to the call, I think Mr S was exploring how much he could borrow. He wanted 
the property and application to be in joint names with his wife, but also wanted to see how 
this affected the amount he could borrow. The income amounts Mr S provided were 
approximate. Very different potential borrowing amounts were provided during the call, 
depending on the information entered and whether the application was sole or joint. 
I agree that Mr S wouldnt know how Halifax would treat different types of income when 
assessing affordability. But I must be clear that the DIP was intended to give Mr S an idea of 
what he might be able to borrow, based on the information he provided. Income isnt 
checked and verified during the DIP call  that happens later, after an application is made. It 
was for Mr S to give Halifax sufficiently accurate information about his income in order to 
receive a DIP that gave him a reliable idea of what he might be able to borrow. 
I think Mr S was made aware that the DIP was only a guide to what he could borrow. I also 
think it was made clear to Mr S that the DIP is not a mortgage offer. The DIP says:
You should not enter into a binding legal commitment to buy a property until you 
have received, and are happy with, the full mortgage offer.
We credit score all mortgage applications. The decision in principle has been based 
on certain assumptions which may change once you apply for a mortgage and your 
needs and circumstances have been fully assessed. This may mean the amount 
available is subject to change.Mr S told Halifax during the call about the DIP he wanted to know how much he might be 
able to borrow so he could look for a property. Before Halifax made a mortgage offer to 
Mr S, hed have had to complete its application process. His application would have to meet 
Halifaxs lending criteria and a stringent affordability assessment, which is required by rules 
on mortgage regulation. Halifax would ask for a valuation of the property and assess 
whether it was suitable security for the loan. The DIP could only be an indication of the 
amount he might be able to borrow  there was no guarantee Halifax would issue a 
mortgage offer to Mr S for the property hed agreed to buy.
Mr S spoke to Halifax again on 7 September 2021. He said he was thinking of buying a 
property at auction. Halifax said customers usually make a mortgage application before an 
auction, to make sure theyre ready as timing can be short. It said the downside is that it 
does a credit search which remains on their record. Halifax offered to start the application, or 
even take it as far as the credit search. Mr S said he didnt know what was going to happen 
 at this point he wasnt sure when the auction would take place. He wanted to wait until a 
decision had been made about the property before making the application.
If Halifax had reminded Mr S during this call that there was no guarantee an application 
would be successful he might have decided to start the application before the auction  
although equally he might not have done. But Halifax did make clear during the call that hed 
need to make an application and that it would do a credit search and ask him for income 
information. And, as Ive said, the DIP itself was clear that it wasnt an offer to lend and any 
offer was subject to further assessment.
I dont think I can fairly find that Halifax was responsible for Mr Ss decision to pay a deposit 
and contract to buy a property before receiving a mortgage offer, or even starting the formal 
application process. 
It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay compensation for 
any costs or losses incurred by Mr S as a result of agreeing to buy a property without having 
a mortgage offer. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to compensate Mr S 
for his embarrassment. Mr S says hes had to spend weeks and make endless calls to find a 
lender and also had to borrow from family and friends. The anxiety this caused has meant 
hes unable to work. Im very sorry for the situation Mr S is in. But, as Ive said, I dont think I 
can hold Halifax responsible for Mr Ss decision to agree to buy a property and pay a deposit 
without a mortgage offer in place.
Halifax accidentally closed Mr Ss complaint, for which it offered £50 compensation. Mr S is 
also unhappy about the way Halifax dealt with his complaint and the outcome. He says 
Halifax wasnt honest or sympathetic. Complaint handling isnt an activity we can look into. 
While I could look into how Halifax dealt with the complaint if it impacted on sorting out the 
underlying problem, I dont think that was the case here. I will leave it to Mr S to decide 
whether to accept Halifaxs offer of compensation for the way it dealt with his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman