DRN-3585219
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) has offered them higher interest 
rates on their mortgage unfairly. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I consider to be fundamental to the 
outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr and Mrs L have been mortgage customers of BoI since 2008. At that time, they borrowed 
around £200,000 on interest only terms. Mr and Mrs L self-certified their income. No proof of 
income was required by BoI to approve the loan. 
Over the years, Mr and Mrs L enquired about making changes to their mortgage  including 
switching to a repayment mortgage and applying for lower interest rates. Due to not meeting 
affordability criteria, BoI said it couldnt switch them to a repayment mortgage. Whilst theyve 
been able to switch rates, BoI says they only qualify for rates from its self-certified product 
range. 
Mr and Mrs L complained to BoI about not having access to its lower prime rates, amongst 
giving other reasons why they think theyve been treated unfairly as a result. 
BoI didnt uphold the complaint. It said to switch from a self-certified rate to a prime rate, any 
application would be subject to affordability and underwriting checks. And, having assessed 
Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, they werent eligible for the prime products. BoI doesnt think 
Mr and Mrs L have been treated unfairly because theyve been offered new interest rates 
from the self-certified range, albeit not as competitive as theyd like.
Unhappy with BoIs response, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She thought Mr and Mrs L had 
been treated unfairly in the circumstances and should have been offered prime rates since 
from at least 2018. Both parties responded with further comments. After further 
consideration, our investigators opinion remained unchanged. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator considered the contact between the parties since the inception of the 
mortgage in 2008. She said there was no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs L applied for a 
rate switch prior to 2018. Or that they were told theyd have access to lower interest rates 
and the ability to switch to a repayment mortgage if they made regular overpayments to their 
account. When considering the same, Ive seen no evidence to suggest the contrary. 
Im satisfied BoI explained the process for switching rates to Mr and Mrs L in 2014. This was 
the first enquiry they made since their account reverted to BoIs standard variable rate 
(SVR) in 2011. At this time, they also asked about the process for switching to a repayment 
mortgage. It wasnt until a few years later, July 2018 to be precise, that they called back to 
proceed with an application to make these changes. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mr L were unfairly declined a lower interest rate 
before this date or that their mortgage remained on the SVR as a result of unfair treatment 
by BoI. As such, Ive considered the events from 2018 onwards and whether Mr and Mrs L 
were treated fairly at the time of this application and subsequently in 2020.
On both occasions BoI conducted affordability assessments to see if Mr and Mrs L met the 
criteria for a repayment mortgage. Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs L were making at least 
their minimum monthly payments - with significant overpayments being made between 2018 
and 2020. But when considering their circumstances, BoI concluded that they could not 
afford a repayment mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage remained on interest only terms. 
On both occasions the were offered a new rate from the self-certified range at 2.65% and 
2.24% respectively. BoI says Mr and Mrs L didnt meet the new borrower criteria for prime 
products. 
Our investigator has detailed what this means in line with BoIs lending process and criteria. 
In short, she explained why interest rates available to self-certified customers may be higher 
 to reflect the risk lenders are willing to take in return for accepting (without proof) the 
income details provided by customers. Lenders can use their commercial discretion when 
pricing their interest rate products and there is nothing inherently wrong with offering 
different rates to customers based on its own assessment of risk. By the time Mr and Mrs L 
applied for a new interest rate in 2018, stricter lending criteria applied, and self-certification 
was no longer accepted. 
In line with BoIs processes at the time, to access prime rates Mr and Mrs L would have 
needed to reapply as new borrowers using proof of income to verify affordability. Because 
they did not meet BoIs criteria, they could not access prime rates. They either had the 
option to remain with BoI on a higher self-certified interest rate or shop around for a 
mortgage elsewhere with a different lender. By contrast, existing non self-certified 
customers, have access to lower prime rates, without any affordability checks required. 
Whilst in theory it appears Mr and Mrs L had the option to shop around for a more suitable 
product elsewhere, their options were limited. Lending standards and their circumstances 
have changed since 2008. Mr and Mrs L havent passed the new borrower assessments 
carried out by BoIs during this time. When considering what I know about Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances, I find it plausible that they did try shopping around to find better deals but 
werent successfully accepted on similar terms with other lenders either. So, Im persuaded 
Mr and Mrs L were unable to move their mortgage to another lender and I find they had no 
option but to remain with BoI. As such the only options available to them were to accept the 
higher self-certified rates or remain on the SVR. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has, in the MCOB handbook, set out an evidential 
provision for the fair treatment of customers who are unable to source deals with their 
existing lender or move their mortgage elsewhere. Im satisfied  MCOB 11.8.1 E applies 
here. 
In summary, in situations where a customer is either unable to enter into a new regulated 
mortgage contract with their existing lender or a new mortgage lender, a lender should not 
take advantage of the customers situation or treat them differently to other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be in contravention of Principle 6.Ive set out why Im persuaded, on balance, that Mr and Mrs L were unable to enter into a 
new mortgage contract with a new lender. As such they satisfy 11.8.1 (2). Whilst they
could access a new (self-certified) product with BoI, the provision still applies as
11.8.1 does not require both (1) and (2) to be satisfied before it is relevant to considering 
whether they were fairly treated, it requires either to be satisfied. 
11.8.1 E does not require all customers to be treated the same. But it does, in my view,
show that there may be unfairness where a borrower who is unable to move to another 
lender is treated less favourably than a borrower who shares similar characteristics, for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms. Where the lender offers 
less favourable products to some customers, it may give rise to the possibility of unfair 
outcomes in some situations.
A key finding I must make is whether Mr and Mrs L, who originally became BoIs customers 
as self-certified borrowers, could be considered as having similar characteristics as a 
different borrower with BoI who had originally provided proof of income and been offered a 
prime interest rate product.
Mr and Mrs L applied for a self-certified mortgage over a decade ago. The terms and 
implications of such a mortgage have already been set out. They now want to access prime 
rates but they cant because they dont meet BoIs affordability criteria. 
Mr and Mrs L have consistently managed their mortgage account in line with the contract 
terms. They have never missed a payment and have made significant overpayments. They 
also have a repayment strategy in place to repay the capital at the end of the mortgage term. 
When considering Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances since 2018, I think on balance its unlikely 
that BoI doesnt have prime customers whose circumstances and mortgage accounts were 
in similar, if not worse positions.
Due to the significant time that had passed since the inception of their mortgage, Im not 
persuaded the way in which the mortgage was originally taken out (i.e. self-certified vs proof 
of income) can fairly be considered a relevant characteristic of the mortgage in 2018.
Whilst Mr and Mrs L hadnt proved their income in 2008, they did then meet BoIs eligibility 
and lending criteria as new borrowers. But, as these criteria changed over time, following the 
introduction of tighter regulation and more stringent checks  Mr and Mrs L did not meet the 
new borrower criteria in 2018.
In 2018, a prime borrower wanting to switch their product would not have been subject to an 
affordability assessment. Meaning they were not required to meet BoIs new lending criteria 
in order to access cheaper rates. I think its likely that there were BoI prime borrowers whose 
circumstances had also changed, meaning although theyd passed the lending criteria in 
2008, wouldve been unable to pass the new, stricter lending criteria that existed in 2018.
But they wouldnt have been prevented from accessing the cheaper rates. As such, Mr and 
Mrs L have been treated less favourably than BoIs prime borrowers, because of the way 
their mortgage was approved in 2008. By not being able to access prime rates, Mr and Mrs L 
have been treated differently from BoIs prime borrowers, as theyre being expected to meet 
higher standards than other customers who likely had similar characteristics.
As such, when considering 11.8.1 E, I find the characteristics of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage in 
2018 are whats relevant here. Im less persuaded that the way the mortgage was originally 
taken out on self-certified terms is a key characteristic relevant to the risk Mr and Mrs L 
presented in 2018.When Mr and Mrs L approached BoI in in 2018 and 2020, given they didnt meet the criteria 
for a repayment mortgage or prime product, I think BoI ought to have done more to consider 
their situation, in line with MCOB 11.8.1 E  in particular due to their inability to move to 
another lender. In these circumstances it would have been fair and reasonable for BoI to
offer them a rate which was not less favourable than those available to a prime customer 
with similar characteristics. Instead they were treated less favourably than other borrowers 
on their mortgage book who had similar characteristics at the time of application for a 
product switch.
In both 2018 and 2020, Im not persuaded BoI considered the relevance of 11.8.1 E and 
whether it applied in Mr and Mrs Ls situation. 
Mr and Mrs L have demonstrated their ability to afford their mortgage on a higher rate 
without any issues and theyve pro-actively managed their interest only mortgage  including 
making regular over payments to reduce the capital, with a suitable plan to repay the 
remainder at the end of the term. When considering all of this, I dont think it was reasonable 
that BoI only offered them interest rates from the self-certified range which were higher than 
the rates available to other customers who had similar characteristics to Mr and Mrs L at the 
time of their application. As a result, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, BoI should have made its prime rates accessible to 
Mr and Mrs L in both 2018 and 2020. As a result, BoI should re-work Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage account by applying the prime rates available at those times, that theyd most 
likely have opted for, given the rates they did actually take. Those being two-year fixed rate 
deals that came with no product fee in 2008 and 2020. 
To account for the overpayments made since 2018, due to higher rates being applied, 
depending on Mr and Mrs Ls preference, BoI should either:
Apply the overpayments to their mortgage account to further reduce their balance 
which will in turn reduce the amount of interest they pay on the new interest applied 
until the end of the current fixed term period; or
Pay Mr and Mrs L the overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of 
8% simple interest* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If BoI considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs L how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to re-work 
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account as set out above, taking into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
preference for the provision of the overpayments made to date. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman