DRN-1222870
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) failed to process transfers from his UK account to 
his foreign bank account in good time resulting in a loss due to a deterioration in exchange 
rates. He wants TSB to compensate him for the loss.
What happened
Mr B lives in Europe. He wrote to his TSB branch in the UK on 17 July 2019 and again on 23 
July 2019. The fist letter requested the closure of two savings accounts with funds to be 
transferred to his overseas bank account denominated in Euros. The second requested a 
further transfer from his current account to the overseas account. The second letter referred 
to the first transfer request and both asked TSB to contact him by post if there were any 
issues. The second letter said:
Please inform me at the above address if further formalities are required for these 
transfers.
Having sent his letters Mr B says he was incommunicado for two weeks between 25 July 
and 10 August 2019 whilst travelling. When he returned he checked his online banking and 
saw the transfers hadnt been actioned. He called TSB which said it hadnt received the 
letters. He was able to complete the transfers to his overseas account on 12 August 2019. 
However he says the exchange rate had deteriorated during the delay and he was around 
£2,500 worse off as a result.
Mr B complained to TSB. It apologised for any inconvenience but didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said it had no record of receiving either letter but in any case written requests 
werent acceptable for international transfers so wouldnt have been processed. TSB said 
this was in the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account but could be instructed online, 
over the phone or in person at a branch. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said he didnt know written requests werent 
acceptable as TSB hadnt advised him of this. Our investigator looked into it. She didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt any evidence TSB had received the letters. And 
TSBs records showed it had advised Mr B in a call in November 2018 that written 
international transfer requests wouldnt be processed. TSB did explain that it could process 
some written requests but only to a maximum of £5,000, less than what Mr B had requested. 
She said TSBs requirements were clearly set out in its T&Cs and it wouldnt have 
processed his requests in any case. As such it hadnt made any error and couldnt be asked 
to do anything more.
Mr B disagreed. He said his complaint was about the failure of TSB to respond in good time 
to advise him of its procedures. He said it must have received his letters as it had 
corresponded after the 12 August about closing the savings accounts, requested in his first 
letter. Our investigator said TSB records indicated it received a request to close the accounts on the 15 August. This may have been Mr Bs letter of the 17 July but it hadnt had it before 
the transfer actioned on 12 August 2019, so wasnt responsible for any exchange rate loses.
As Mr B disagrees it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr B but I dont think TSB can be held responsible for the 
loss he suffered from the exchange rate here. Mr B has another complaint about the closure 
of his accounts and some problems he says resulted, but Im not considering these issues in 
this decision.
There is much confusion about the letters and I dont doubt Mr B sent the letters and it does 
seem unusual that two letters sent a week apart should both fail to arrive. But neither was 
enough to instruct what he  wanted and there isnt any evidence TSB had them before Mr B 
contacted it on returning from his trip.
TSB had already advised him that it wouldnt process written instructions and Mr B accepts it 
may have done but he didnt recall this. The procedures are clear in the T&Cs of the account 
so I dont think they are unreasonable. And I think the issues here are why TSB has such 
procedures in place in respect of international transfers. There is no certainty of when 
ordinary post will be delivered and occasionally it isnt delivered at all and even daily 
fluctuations in exchange rates can be significant.
Mr B did make use of online banking, which could have been used to place the transfer 
requests. It was by checking online banking he realised the transfer hadnt occurred.  Even if 
written instructions were acceptable I think its reasonable to allow some time for the letters 
to actually reach TSB through the postal system . So, with this in mind I have to consider 
that by making the request in the way he did, Mr B wouldnt have known when the transfer 
would be made or at what exchange rate.  
When Mr B did instruct the transfer on the 12 August he would have known the rate 
available. He could have decided not to proceed then, as this, unfortunately, proved to be 
around Sterlings low point in the few weeks either side. I accept that Mr B might have 
needed the funds in Euros by then. But equally he had no idea when the transfers would 
specifically be made when he sent the letters. The wording of his second letter, requesting to 
be updated in writing if there were additional requirements doesnt suggest there was any 
urgency at this point. 
Mr B says if TSB had processed his letters properly it could have told him what was required 
before the rate went against him.  But equally Mr B could have checked his online banking or 
called TSB for an update before he went away, rather than sending another letter asking 
TSB to write to him if there were any issues with either transfer. 
Even if his letters had been received I dont think there is any certainty that Mr B would have 
received the information needed back from TSB before he became, as he puts it, 
incommunicado just after he sent the second letter. If a reply hadnt arrived before he left, 
he would have been no sooner informed than he was on checking his online banking when 
he returned. By which time the exchange rate had already declined with the rate  similar to 
what Mr B secured on the 12 August.I think the issues seen here shows why TSB doesnt generally accept international transfer 
instructions by letter. I am sorry Mr B lost out here but I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman