DRN-1573218
The complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt repay her existing personal loan after she 
took out a new loan. 
What happened
Mrs C visited a branch of HSBC on 2 January 2019 and completed a personal loan 
application. Mrs C says she told the advisor she wanted to repay her existing loan, which 
had an outstanding balance of around £2,900 at the time. The advisor who completed the 
loan application said Mrs C told her she wanted to close her old loan down over the 
weekend after her branch visit. A loan of £7,000 was approved in branch and HSBC says it 
transferred £6,500 into Mrs Cs savings account. 
Mrs C says that a few days after her loan application she noticed the old loan remained 
open and spoke to HSBC. Mrs C says HSBC's advisor told her the old loan would be 
closed and went on to complete a survey. 
No further contact was received from HSBC and Mrs C says she thought the situation had 
been resolved. On 22 May 2019 Mrs C called HSBC as she noticed two loan payments 
leaving her account. She asked what had happened and complained. 
HSBC issued various responses to Mrs C and offered her £50 because the advisor she 
spoke with on the phone, shortly after the loan application, failed to follow up her request to 
close the old loan. HSBC also offered a £134.54 refund. 
Mrs Cs loan was repaid in full on 17 July 2019, at which time the outstanding balance was 
around £2,100. Mrs C says that she would like HSBC to refund the additional repayments 
she made to her old loan, totalling around £805, to resolve her complaint and referred the 
issue to our service. 
The complaint was passed to an investigator, but he thought HSBCs existing offer was fair. 
Mrs C asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says this loan was taken out after she was approached by branch staff and that she 
didn't have a specific need for the funds beyond repaying the existing loan. As a result the 
loan funds were paid to a savings account and it was several months before she noticed the 
original loan hadn't been repaid. I note the advisor's statement that Mrs C said she wanted to 
arrange closure of the existing loan herself. But I don't think someone who had completed a 
loan application in branch would go on to say they wanted to repay their existing loan over 
the phone several days later.
I note that HSBC accepts Mrs C did ask a different member of staff if her old loan would be 
repaid, a few days after the application was approved. Mrs C says she was assured the loan would be closed, which is why she didn't follow the matter up again. I can understand why 
Mrs C thought her loan had been repaid and I'm satisfied she didn't realise it was still open 
until May 2019. 
Mrs C says she wants the full £805 in loan payments she made during the period to be 
refunded. But I have to take into account that the vast majority of those payments were used 
to repay the outstanding balance of the original loan. Because Mrs C made additional 
payments to the loan, the balance she had to repay in July 2019 was considerably lower. If I 
were to tell HSBC to refund all Mrs C's payments during the period in question, it would 
place her in a better position than if no error had occurred. 
I recently asked HSBC to tell us how much interest Mrs C was charged between 2 January 
2019 and 14 July 2019. HSBC has confirmed that the figure was £52.04. That means, Mrs C 
paid £52.04 more interest as a result of HSBC's errors. Around £750 of the £805 payments 
Mrs C made during the period were used to reduce the outstanding balance.
I understand Mrs C's current account balance was impacted by the payments she was 
making to her old loan. I've looked at her bank statements but haven't seen evidence of and 
unreasonable level fees or charges incurred as a result. 
HSBC paid Mrs C £50 and offered to refund £134.54, taking the total compensation offered 
to £184.54. As I've said above, Mrs C paid £52.04 in additional interest due to the delay in 
repaying the original loan, so I'm satisfied HSBC's offer takes her financial loss into account.
I've considered the impact of HSBC's actions. I note it was several months before Mrs C 
noticed her original loan hadn't been repaid. HSBC responded to Mrs C's complaint around 
two months after it was raised. I understand Mrs C wanted a quicker resolution, but I'm 
satisfied HSBC responded in a reasonable time. I agree there was some inconvenience to 
Mrs C here but I think HSBC's offer of £50 plus a refund of £134.54 fairly reflects the impact 
of its error as well as the additional interest she paid. 
I'm sorry to disappoint Mrs C as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter. But I'm 
satisfied HSBC's existing offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As I think 
HSBC has dealt with Mrs C's complaint fairly and made a reasonable offer, I'm not telling it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman