DRN-3749891
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the advice he received from Finesco Financial Services Limited (FFSL)
to transfer benefits from his former employers defined benefit scheme to a personal pension 
plan. He believes the advice was negligent and has caused him to suffer a financial loss.
Mr T is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading I will generally refer to 
all complainant representations as being made by Mr T. 
What happened
The history leading up to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been clearly set 
out in the investigators assessment, which for completeness, I have largely replicated below 
with small additions and amendments.
At the time of advice, Mr T was age 50, married with two dependent children aged 24 and 
18. He was employed earning £16,000 per annum, increasing to £19,000 when overtime 
was included. 
In late 2006, Mr T contacted FFSL by letter. This letter referred to a recent telephone 
conversation and enclosed some pension documents relating to his current defined benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) and his deferred pension benefits from his 
previous employers DB scheme (British Steel Pension Scheme  BSPS).
Mr T said he was looking to see:
a) If I could receive a lump sum & reduced pension aged 50
b) What other options are open to me
c) Leave pension as it is.
He also explained that hed been with his current employer since leaving British Steel in 
February 1992 and was a member of its final salary pension scheme.
FFSL replied on 26 September 2006 setting out an explanation of the benefits available 
under BSPS, noting the main advantage of final salary pension benefits, is that it is the 
employers responsibility to provide you with the pension, there is no investment risk on your 
part. It also pointed out the automatic increases available through the scheme would come 
at a cost in any personal pension. A meeting to discuss Mr Ts situation in greater detail was 
suggested. 
In January 2007 FFSL wrote to BSPS requesting an updated valuation and scheme booklet. 
A transfer information sheet, issued 1 February 2007, showed Mr T had 15 years and four 
months service which meant he has accrued the following deferred benefits at the normal 
retirement age of 65:
  Members Pension revalued to £4,822.68
  Widows Pension revalued to £2,411.64
  Retirement Lump Sum of £10,851.03
The transfer value was quoted as £44,837. Mr T signed the accompanying Election for 
transfer document on 10 February 2007; before financial advice was provided. 
FFSL wrote to Mr T on 1 March 2007 and explained:
  Benefits were available at age 50, subject to a penalty of 3% simple for each year 
prior to age 55  so a penalty of 15% would apply.
  It wasnt possible to take the tax-free lump sum from the pension without taking the 
income.
  If the maximum lump sum of £10,851.03 were taken from the BSPS the income 
would be reduced by £1 for every £16 taken, resulting in a reduction of £678.19 per 
annum.
  The BSPS benefits were payable for life and included a 50% spouses pension.
The letter also said that it would be possible to transfer the pension to a personal pension 
plan, take 25% tax-free cash immediately, while leaving the remainder invested until an 
income was required. And it said that in order to match the benefits provided by the BSPS at 
age 65, any personal pension would need to achieve an annualised return of 11.1% (it is 
assumed that this is based on no tax-free cash being taken; the Transfer Value Analysis 
document of 15 February 2007 indicates that a return of 13.7% would be needed but does 
not set out what benefits this is aiming to match; it seems reasonable that this is what would 
be required if a tax-free lump sum were taken). FFSL suggested the options should be 
discussed in more detail. 
On 15 March 2007 British Steel issued a letter setting out the actuarially reduced benefits at 
age 50:
  British Steel Annual Pension: £2,013
  Contingent Spouses Annual Pension: £1,006.56
A Pension Discussion Report was prepared on 3 April 2007. The purpose of this report was 
to look at [Mr Ts] existing pensions and also the options available to [him] in terms of 
drawing a lump sum from [his] preserved pension with British Steel. The report went on to 
set out similar information to that in the letter of 1 March 2007. 
With reference to the returns required to match the scheme benefits at age 65 it said:
this is a high level of yield required and based purely on that output we could not 
recommend a transfer on the basis of being able to improve the benefits through the 
former scheme. 
However, it went on to explain that transferring would allow Mr T access to his tax-free lump 
sum, without taking an income. It also made him aware this could result in lower pension 
benefits overall. 
The report went on to outline the risk factors with transferring, including the effect of charges 
on returns. It also advised him to read the enclosed FSAs guide to the risk of salary-related 
occupation pension transfers and a copy of the Transfer Value Analysis report. 
The report explained if Mr T wished to proceed with the transfer, he would need to complete 
an enclosed Personal Financial Summary and risk profiling questionnaire so the adviser 
could provide him with formal recommendations. Both of these documents were signed by 
Mr T on 4 April 2007.  FFSL assessed Mr T as having a moderate attitude to risk (ATR) but I note that very little was recorded on the Personal Financial Summary. Specifically, no 
general or specific financial objectives are identified; there isnt any information about Mr Ts 
current DB scheme, no records of his investments, bank accounts, assets or liabilities (other 
than the mortgage on the home) and no information about his current and future 
expenditures. 
It is unclear exactly when a further meeting took place, but illustrations for unsecured 
pension (income withdrawal) were produced on 17 April 2007. Mr T signed an application 
form for a personal pension with Provider A on 18 April 2007. On 20 April 2007 FFSL sent 
Mr T a formal recommendation report. The letter reiterated:
it is not a recommendation to simply improve upon the benefits available from the 
British Steel Scheme. Therefore, in order that you understand this, I would ask that 
you sign a copy of the report where indicated to confirm that you are aware of the risk 
involved in the process.
Pages 1-5 of the recommendation report mirror the Pension Discussion Report of 
3 April 2007 word for word. Pages 6-8 explain the advantages and disadvantages of 
unsecured income, including the risks. On page 9 the adviser reiterated he could not 
possibly recommend that a transfer would result in a greater level of benefits. Pages 10-14 
set out details of the product and funds recommended. 
Mr T signed a declaration, dated 18 April 2007, stating he understood the transfer could 
result in greatly reduced benefits at age 65.
On 20 April 2007 FFSL wrote to Mr T confirming the application forms were forwarded to 
Provider A for processing. The letter explained no professional consultancy fee would be 
charged as FFSL would receive an introduction fee from Provider A. On 21 June 2007 tax-
free cash of £11,636.22 was paid to Mr Ts bank account. The policy document was 
forwarded to Mr T on 22 June 2007. 
 
Mr T subsequently complained about the advice to transfer in December 2020. FFSL didnt 
uphold the complaint and so Mr T referred it to this service for an independent review. 
FFSL said we didnt have jurisdiction to consider the complaint because it had been made 
too late. It said the advice was given more than six years ago, and Mr T was fully informed of 
the risks of the transfer at the time of advice in 2007 and was aware that the transfer was 
unlikely to improve his pension benefits. FFSL also said that following the transfer Mr T 
received annual statements from his personal pension plan showing the progress of his 
pension benefits with them and if he had so wished, he could have compared this to what he 
would have received from BSPS. This meant that he ought reasonably to have known he 
had cause to complain more than three years before he did.
One of our investigators considered this but didnt agree. The investigator reasoned Mr T 
would not have accepted the advice in 2007 if he thought it was negligent. Further, he wasnt 
persuaded that Mr T possessed the financial sophistication necessary to undertake a 
meaningful comparison between the benefits available from his personal pension plan and 
those he might have been entitled to under BSPS. Mr T said he only became aware he had 
cause to complain in 2020 after responding to an advert from a claims management 
company (CMC). Without persuasive evidence demonstrating otherwise, the investigator 
considered it reasonable that this is when Mr T became aware something may have gone 
wrong. And since Mr T then complained within three years, the complaint was made in time. As FFSL didnt agree, the matter was referred to ombudsman. I issued a decision stating 
that the complaint had been made in time, largely for the reasons explained by the 
investigator. 
Following this, the investigator looked into the merits of Mr Ts complaint. And having done 
so, he concluded that the advice to transfer wasnt suitable. He said, in summary that the 
starting position when considering the transfer of valuable guaranteed benefits is to assume 
the transfer isnt suitable unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the transfer is in the 
clients best interest. The investigator noted that very little information was provided 
regarding Mr Ts financial circumstances and objectives at the time of advice. He said no 
assets were recorded on the fact find, nor was there an analysis of income and expenditure, 
either at the time of advice or in retirement. The investigator also wasnt persuaded Mr T 
needed the lump sum, but reasoned even if there was a genuine need it was difficult to 
conclude that the lump sum would address this need since it wasnt quantified,  He 
concluded that even though the risks of transferring were disclosed, and Mr T signed a 
disclaimer, overall he was not persuaded by the evidence available that there was a good 
reason for transferring Mr Ts valuable benefits with BSPS. 
He then set out a methodology for putting things right. And said that FFSL should pay Mr T 
£250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the disruption to his retirement 
plans. 
FFSL disagreed. It said when Mr T approached FFSL he had already contacted BSPS about 
taking his pension benefits early. And he signed the Election for Transfer document on 
10 February 2007, before receiving advice and just a few days after his 50th birthday which 
FFSL says indicates how intent Mr [T] was on accessing his benefits as early as possible.
It also said the letter FFSL sent to Mr T on 1 March 2007 provided only factual information 
regarding how Mr T could draw a cash lump sum from his pension and made no 
recommendation. FFSL said it was left in the hands of Mr [T] to digest this and contact 
[FFSL] to discuss matters further if he so wished. 
FFSL also pointed out that in 2007 there was not the same clarity as there is today in 
relation to an insistent client and the process that an advisor should follow in such 
circumstances noting that there were no rules or specific guidance in the regulators 
handbook regarding insistent clients. 
And it said that FFSL did not recommend the transfer of the BSPS benefits in order to 
potentially improve Mr Ts pension in retirement noting that the FFSL adviser provides 
compelling reasons to leave the benefits where they are within the BSPS but recognises 
Mr [T]s need to raise capital and responds to it. FFSL conceded that the fact find document 
could have been more comprehensive but explained the advice process took place over 
several months and the adviser was well informed about Mr Ts circumstances and 
objectives. FFSL explained that at the time of advice Mr T had no significant savings or 
investments and no surplus income. He also didnt want to go into debt, but he required 
capital to fund his sons wedding (though this was not recorded in the advice documents).
FFSL said Mr T was provided ample risk warnings to alert him to the valuable benefits he 
would be giving up if he transferred his BSPS benefits and that all other avenues and 
potential resources were considered as a means of raising the capital Mr T is said to have 
required. It said Mr T made the decision to transfer from an informed position and that the 
advice was suitable to meet his objectives. And although it could have done more to 
document the reasons behind Mr Ts needs, FFSL said he would still have proceeded with 
the transfer as he was determined to access his pension benefits to release the maximum 
lump sum available.The investigator considered everything FFSL said but wasnt persuaded to change their 
opinion. Specifically the investigator questioned the relevance of FFSLs comments about 
insistent clients as this would have only come into play if the advice had been not to transfer 
and here FFSL recommended Mr T transfer his deferred BSPS pension. 
The investigator also said that although FFSL have asserted Mr T would have transferred 
regardless of the advice because he was motivated to access cash, the documents from the 
time of advice dont make it clear why these funds were required or what alternatives were 
considered to fund this undefined need. Therefore he wasnt able to conclude that 
alternatives were explored or that there was any meaningful effort to dissuade Mr [T] from 
this [course] of action. 
FFSL replied noting that there was no explicit insistent client process at the time and that it 
followed the guidance from its compliance consultants and good industry practice throughout 
the advice process in 2007. And it said once again that although the soft facts could have 
been better recorded, the fact find is quite clear that Mr T had no alternative resources to 
meet his need for capital, something it claims is undisputed. It also pointed out that Mr T 
required further funds even after taking the tax-free cash. FFSL said this indicated that Mr T 
had no recourse to alternative funding but also that his budgeting position meant that he 
was unable to accumulate savings from surplus income. FFSL concluded that Mr T would 
have pursued the transfer in any event because of his genuine need to raise capital at that 
time.
The investigator remained of the view that the advice was unsuitable, so the complaint was 
referred to me to make a final decision on the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
rules (COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them for doing so. I have considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of FFSLs actions here.
PRIN 3: A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
And the provisions in COB 5.3 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint; Ill explain why. 
The then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), stated in COB that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, FFSL should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best 
interests (COB 5.3.29G). This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been 
renumbered to COBS 19.1.6G in the current handbook. 
What this means is FFSL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
Financial viability 
FFSL carried out a Transfer Value Analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (this is commonly referred to as the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr T was 50 at the time of the advice and expected to retire at age 65. The investment 
return (critical yield) required to match the BSPS benefits at retirement was quoted as either 
11.1% or 13.7% per year (the TVAS says: Taking transfer value of £44,837.00, it would 
need an annual investment return to retirement 13.7%. The Recommendation Report says 
the critical yield needed is 11.1%). This compares with the discount rate of 6.1% per year for 
14 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7% and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical 
yield was in excess of 11%, I think Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of transferring and investing in 
line with a moderate ATR. The return required was significantly higher than the discount rate 
and far in excess of the regulators upper projection rate. In my view, to have come close to 
achieving the growth required wouldve required Mr T to take a significantly greater level of 
risk than he indicated he was prepared to take. And even then, I think hed still likely be 
worse off.  In my view, Mr Ts capacity for loss was low. The fact find didnt record any savings or other 
assets of Mr Ts. And while he was a member of another DB scheme at the time of advice, 
there is no supporting evidence to show that Mr Ts income needs would be met solely by 
this pension. Although the information available is limited, I think its likely Mr T would be 
reliant on both this and his deferred BSPS pension to meet his income needs through 
retirement. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of BSPS wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. 
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as FFSL 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility  access to tax-free cash
The main reason FFSL recommended Mr T transfer his BSPS benefits was to gain access to 
a cash lump sum. Ive reviewed all of the information provided to me from the time of advice 
and Ive seen nothing that establishes the purpose of accessing a cash lump sum or the 
amount required. Since Mr T complained, FFSL have said Mr T wanted the money to help 
fund his sons wedding. And it says it isnt disputed Mr T needed access to cash and he 
continued to make withdrawals from his pension after the transfer. But Im not persuaded 
that this evidences a genuine need to access the tax-free cash earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. Accessing tax-free cash is not an objective in itself. Tax-free cash is 
a means of achieving an objective. And in this case, Ive not seen sufficient evidence that 
persuades me Mr T had a genuine objective that could only be met by transferring his BSPS 
benefits and taking tax-free cash. 
FFSL said that Mr T had need for these funds to help pay for his sons wedding. This wasnt 
recorded at the time of advice, but even if this was the true position, Im not sure this was a 
compelling reason to transfer and forgo valuable guaranteed benefits. Not only did FFSL fail 
to establish the actual purpose of accessing the lump sum, it also did not establish how 
much money Mr T actually needed (if any at all)  the advice was purely based on him 
accessing the maximum lump sum possible. 
I appreciate FFSL have also said Mr T didnt want to go into debt, but if FFSL had probed 
the need for the tax-free cash as it should have done it may have been able to suggest 
alternative means of funding. But since no need was identified no alternatives were 
meaningfully explored. 
Overall, I dont think Mr T had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date  so I dont 
think it was in his best interests to transfer his BSPS benefits.
Summary
I dont doubt that access to tax-free cash lump sum and the flexibility of a personal pension 
would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But FFSL wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what 
Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr T should not have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to achieve a unquantified short-term objective.So, I think FFSL shouldve advised Mr T to remain in BSPS.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against FFSLs 
advice. FFSL argues that this is the case, saying Mr T was adamant about accessing his 
tax-free cash and in fact, had already signed the Election for Transfer document before the 
advice was provided. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of BSPS, against FFSLs advice. I say this because Mr T was an 
inexperienced investor with a moderate attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a not 
insignificant amount of his retirement provision. So, if FFSL had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think 
he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts unquantified need for a cash lump sum was so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If FFSL had 
explained that there was no pressing need for Mr T to access his benefit now or risk his 
guaranteed pension to achieve things, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of BSPS.
Putting things right
In light of the above, I think FFSL should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I also consider an award for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr Ts retirement 
planning appropriate. So FFSL should pay Mr T a further £250 to reflect this impact.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have remained in the BSPS if suitable advice had been given. 
FFSL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
FFSL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no concrete plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, FFSL should:calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts FFSLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, FFSL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can consider fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and required Finesco Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Finesco Financial Services Limited pays Mr T the balance. 
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Finesco Financial 
Services Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, it is unlikely Mr T can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman