DRN-2510079
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds actions in 
connection with their motor insurance policies.
Mr S has taken the lead in bringing this complaint; so, where I refer to his comments 
below those should be read as being on behalf of himself and Mrs S. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a policy with Admiral which renewed in October 2018. In December 2018 
Mr S took out a separate policy for his car with the intention of adding Mrs S car to that 
policy, on a multi-car basis, from October 2019.
In that month, October 2019, a claims management company (CMC) contacted Admiral and 
told it Mrs S car had hit the CMCs clients car in August 2019. The CMC wanted to claim 
from Mrs S policy. But the CMC said the driver of Mrs S car at the time of the incident was 
someone not named on Mrs S policy. Admiral contacted Mrs S a couple of weeks later. She 
said her car hadn't been involved in an accident. Admiral asked the CMC to look into the 
matter.
In November 2019 Admiral wrote to Mr S and said that the claim had affected his multi-car 
policys renewal price, which had increased by around £175. Mr S contacted Admiral, 
cancelled the renewal and raised a complaint. The next day Admiral told Mr S that the CMC 
had confirmed Mrs S car wasn't involved in the alleged incident and it had updated its 
system accordingly. But another insurance provider later told Mrs S that the August 2019 
incident was still showing on a shared insurance database against her claims history. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Admiral had done anything wrong. Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
I can understand how confusing, stressful and frustrating Mr and Mrs S might have found it 
to learn that theyd essentially been accused of causing an accident that they had absolutely 
no involvement with. But I dont think this was Admirals fault. A CMC had told Admiral that a 
car it insured had caused an accident. And, as the insurer of that car, Admiral was required 
by law (the Road Traffic Act 1988) to respond to that allegation. 
It might help if I explain that there's a centrally held database that records which insurers 
insure particular cars. And the database locates insurers by the registration number of the 
cars on their policies and not by the name of the policyholder. So, when theres been a 
driving incident and an interested party wants to claim from the insurer of the car involved, 
they can find the insurers details from the central database using the cars registration 
number.
But occasionally the party wishing to make a claim will make a mistake, perhaps because 
they've recorded the registration number incorrectly. And when that happens the database 
will provide details of the insurer of the car with the incorrect registration number. And that 
can lead to a claim being made against a policyholder who has no involvement or knowledge 
whatsoever of the incident being claimed for.
It seems likely thats what happened in this case. That is the party making the claim or the 
CMC noted the registration number of the car involved in the incident as being Mrs S cars 
registration by mistake. And when the CMCs looked for the insurer from the database its 
provided Admirals details as insuring Mrs S car. The CMC has then sent their allegations to 
Admiral. 
So, when Admiral received that claim its recorded it on its system as a claim against Mrs S 
policy. That process has automatically updated a shared insurance database that a claim 
had been made. Thats standard procedure across the motor insurance industry. And until 
the incident had been investigated and closed down the claim would show as open, which 
meant it hadn't yet been determined, on the shared database. And its usual for insurers to 
treat open claims as if they are fault claims until theyre closed. So as Admiral had received 
a claim against a car it insured I think it was reasonable for it to record it as a claim against 
Mrs S policy until it had investigated the matter. 
Admiral noted the allegation didn't name either Mr or Mrs S as the driver of the car. And it 
spoke with Mrs S to confirm her car hadn't been involved in an accident and responded to 
the CMC accordingly. But it couldn't just close matters down at that point. Thats because it's 
standard practice for insurers to wait until theyve received confirmation from the claiming 
party, in this case the CMC, that theyre no longer going to pursue the claim before closing it 
down. Thats because otherwise the claimant could simply continue to pursue it and take the 
matter to court, and the claim would still show as open on the shared database, regardless 
of the fact the policyholder has consistently denied any involvement in it. So, while I do 
understand how frustrating Mr and Mrs S found the situation, I don't think Admiral did 
anything wrong in not closing the file when Mrs S said her car hadn't been involved in an 
accident. 
I've noted that it wasn't until the end of November 2019 that Admiral confirmed the claim was 
closed. Mr S believes that if he hadn't phoned it around that time then Admiral wouldn't have 
taken any action. In fact he said he'd specifically asked Admiral if it had intended to chase 
the matter and it had told him no. But Mr S is mistaken. Ive listened to the relevant call 
recordings. There are two and Mr S said that it was in the second call, with a male, when 
Admiral told him it hadn't intended to take further action. But the conversation didn't go as Mr 
S remembers it. Mr S didn't specifically ask if Admiral was planning to chase the matter, so it 
didn't tell Mr S it wasn't planning to do so. That said, the call handler didn't say when it was 
scheduled to take the next action either, which might have given Mr S the impression that 
without his call it wasn't going to do anything. But, I'm satisfied that wasn't the case.
Admiral told us it had already sent a follow up to the CMC on 29 October 2019. Mr S doubts 
the accuracy of that. I asked Admiral for evidence of its contact with the CMC and its 
provided us with a copy of the notification it sent to the CMC by email at 2.30pm on 
29 October 2019. So I'm satisfied it did write to the CMC as it said it had. I'm equally 
satisfied that it would have followed up on this without Mr S intervention.Mr S has also questioned why the mistaken claim hadn't shown on the initial renewal 
notification Admiral had sent to him, before it told him the renewal premium would increase. 
This isn't a point Mr S initially put to Admiral when he complained. So it's not something 
Admirals had the opportunity to respond to formally. But its told us that the CMCs claim 
was against Mrs S own policy and not Mr S multi-car policy, which Mrs S had planned to 
add her car to in October 2019. So its system hadn't automatically updated the renewal 
quote it had sent to Mr S with details of the claim against a separate policy. However, Mr S 
told us that he wasn't planning on renewing with Admiral at the premium it initially offered 
(before adding £175 for the mistaken claim) anyway. So I don't think the fact that Admiral 
added the claim to the policy and increased the premium at a later date affected Mr S 
decision with regards to renewal.  
For completeness I'm aware that another insurer could still see the mistaken claim on the 
shared database after Admiral had closed it down. But I don't think this is because of 
anything Admiral did or didn't do. I'm aware that Admirals system will automatically send 
notification to the shared database that it had closed the claim as being incorrect. But it 
appears the shared database didn't update immediately. Admiral aren't responsible for 
managing the shared database. Further, depending on exactly which data package insurers 
use to access that system, there may sometimes be a delay in the shared database 
updating. And that could explain why another insurer could still see the claim against Mrs S 
even though Admiral had closed it down. But if thats what happened that would be outside 
of Admirals control. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman