DRN-2948860
The complaint
Mrs H complains, through her representative, that National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) caused a delay in cashing in her premium bond holding.  
What happened
Mrs Hs power of attorney (POA) completed an application form to encash her premium 
bond holdings. Mrs H signed the application. The application, including Mrs Hs holder 
number and the holders card, was sent to NS&I in early October 2020. However, on 12 
October, NS&I wrote to Mrs H and told her the holders number shed quoted no longer 
existed.
Mrs H, represented by her POA, complained to NS&I on 2 January 2021. She said shed 
confirmed her personal details to them in 2019 and didnt understand why her premium 
bonds couldnt be located. Mrs H said that if thered been a query about her holding at that 
time it shouldnt have been left until she applied to encash the premium bonds.
In early February, NS&I wrote to Mrs H again to confirm the premium bond holder number 
she quoted had been encashed in 2003. NS&I then provided a final response to the 
complaint on 7 April, which is after the complaint was brought to our service. They explained 
that after further investigation theyd found a second holders number for Mrs H which did 
have a balance attached to it. NS&I said they shouldve noticed this when they received the 
October application. They apologised and sent a payment of £50.00 to Mrs H.
Mrs H was unhappy with the final response from NS&I and hasnt accepted the £50.00 
payment. She brought her complaint to our service and is represented by her POA. One of 
our investigators looked into things for Mrs H and thought that NS&I hadnt done anything 
substantially wrong, but they ought reasonably to have searched for other accounts sooner 
than they did. He thought the payment of £50.00 NS&I made, along with an apology, was a 
fair and reasonable remedy.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decides her 
complaint. Mrs H says our investigator hasnt understood that a POA should be treated as 
the NS&I customer raising the complaint. Mrs H says the compensation she is seeking isnt 
based on the inconvenience experienced by her POA as she realises her attorney would 
only be entitled to claim for expenses.
Mrs H has highlighted that NS&I had the opportunity to check her holdings in. And that NS&I 
should reasonably have noticed she had two holders numbers when they reviewed their 
systems after her request to encash in October 2020. She felt that the level of compensation 
should take into account the number of errors NS&I made and the length of time they took to 
resolve the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs H, but for very much the same 
reason as our investigator I will be upholding the complaint and asking NS&I to pay Mrs H 
£50.00. Before I explain why, I will clarify our approach to complaints brought to our service 
by a POA as I can see Mrs H feels we havent treated her POA as the NS&I customer 
raising the complaint.
In this case, Mrs H gave the POA the authority to act on her behalf in relation to all her 
property and affairs with no restrictions. Ive seen that our investigator explained we couldnt 
consider any inconvenience to the POA and said this was because the POA wasnt the NS&I 
customer raising the complaint. However, I would like to explain we can only tell a business 
to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer  not by a third 
party. So, although a POA can act on behalf of Mrs H, we couldn't award compensation to 
attorneys who have brought a complaint on her behalf.
Mrs H says that she doesnt feel the £50.00 NS&I have paid her is enough to remedy the 
number of errors NS&I made. Ive seen the encashment form Mrs H signed and sent NS&I in 
October 2020. It contained a holders number and a holders card for premium bonds 
encashed in 2003. When their search on this number showed the premium bonds had been 
encashed, I wouldve expected NS&I to tell Mrs H quickly, and they did. I appreciate NS&I 
couldve completed a more thorough search of their records at this time, but I consider it was 
reasonable for them to search only the records contained on the holder number and holder 
card Mrs H had provided.
Mrs H has told us she received several prizes from NS&I in 2020, some of which were paid 
in October and December. It seems reasonable for me to conclude that having been told in 
mid-October she held no premium bonds the receipt of these prizes was likely to prompt the 
complaint on 2 January 2021.
When Mrs H complained in January, this was a further opportunity for NS&I to have carried 
out a more thorough search of their records. However, Ive seen that NS&I initially 
responded to say theyd checked the holder number again and confirmed the bonds had 
been encashed in 2003. After Mrs H brought her complaint to our service, NS&I issued their 
final response. They said they normally search only the records on the holders number 
provided, but that during the investigation of the complaint theyd found another holding for 
Mrs H under a different number. 
Mrs H says she provided her holders number in 2019 and this should have alerted NS&I to 
the fact she held two accounts. Ive considered whether the completion of this form by Mrs H 
wouldve reasonably have drawn NS&Is attention to the fact she had two holder numbers. 
Unfortunately, I dont consider that this form in isolation wouldve alerted NS&I. I say this 
because the only number Mrs H quoted on the form was for an account that had been 
encashed in 2003. And I consider its likely that NS&I wouldve seen that the holder number 
quoted contained the correct details for Mrs H, even though there may have been no 
premium bonds under that number.
NS&I have accepted they shouldve noticed that Mrs H had two holder numbers earlier than 
they did. Im satisfied that NS&I ought reasonably to have searched for any other accounts 
earlier than they did, but I dont consider NS&I made several errors. I dont consider they did 
anything significantly wrong when they relied on the information Mrs H supplied in the 
encashment form, particularly as this also included a holders card. Where I consider NS&I 
shouldve done more is when Mrs H made them aware in January 2021 that she was at a 
loss to understand why theyd told her she had no premium bond holdings. Its likely this 
would have been confusing for Mrs H as shed received prizes in the preceding months.Putting things right
Having decided NS&I couldve done more, Ive considered whether the apology and 
payment of £50.00 NS&I sent to Mrs H is fair and reasonable. NS&I wrote to Mrs H a second 
time in February 2021 without completing a more detailed search of their records. It took two 
months for a more detailed search to be completed and a new encashment form to be sent 
to Mrs H, so I appreciate Mrs H wouldve been confused during this period. However, in all 
the circumstances I consider a payment of £50.00 is a reasonable sum to reflect the 
confusion Mrs H wouldve felt over this period.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments have 
already offered to pay Mrs H £50.00 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that National Savings and 
Investments should pay Mrs H £50.00.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman