DRN-2779493
The complaint
Ms N says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1996 with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1996, Ms N applied for a store card by completing an application form in a Debenhams 
store. PPI was added to her account. She says she didnt know anything about PPI until the 
recent media campaigns. She says she was misinformed about PPI at the time of the sale 
and was not properly represented. She concludes the PPI was mis-sold. 
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 which Ms N owed on her store card. The 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Ms N 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ms N disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint. I know this will disappoint her, 
so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Ms Ns store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I want my account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection This box 
is ticked on Ms Ns application form. I can reasonably assume the form was completed by 
a member of staff or by Ms N herself. I noted Ms N also declined and accepted other offers 
on the application form - so I think the form was diligently completed and there was 
probably some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as she 
signed the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think 
her signature means AXA France probably made it clear the policy was optional and that 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember 
this in detail.
I can reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements  so if she didnt know what the premiums were for, I think its reasonable to say 
she would have queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this 
into consideration, I think Ms N knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it 
because she saw some value in it.
I dont think AXA France advised Ms N to take out the PPI. This means AXA France didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Ms N received about the policy at the time of the sale. 
But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont 
think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Ms N was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Ms N says 
she would not have been entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was away from work 
due to illness. But the policy could have paid out on a successful claim in addition to her sick 
pay and at a time when she might have needed it most. Ms N told us she had no other 
sources of income. So I think it could have proved useful to Ms N if she had an accident, 
became ill or lost her job. 
I dont know if AXA made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Ms N to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I 
think if Ms N had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have thought 
the policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the 
outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly cost did not seem to be unaffordable.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Ms Ns submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman