DRN-2902445
The complaint
 Miss N has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
 
What happened
 Miss N was given a fixed term guarantor loan by Buddy Loans. The details of this is given 
below:
Date taken Date repaid instalments amount Repayments
12/08/2015 01/12/2015 12 £1500 £154.59
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Buddy Loans on the occasion it lent to Miss N asked for information about her income and 
expenditure. It also says it verified her wages, carried out a credit check and used data from 
the Office of National Statistics to compare alongside the expenditure she declared.
Buddy Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Miss N had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about 
whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is because, on balance, I 
dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision on this loan and I will explain why.
Miss N asked for the loan on 12 August 2015 for £1500 and when she did this, she told it 
about her income and expenditure. Buddy Loans say her income was validated and when I 
see Buddy Loanss income and expenditure calculation I can see, on the face of it, Miss N 
had sufficient income to be able to afford the loan.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired (and supplied to our service) 
that Miss N had several defaulted accounts and other adverse credit data, that I am currently 
minded to think, should have shown it that she wouldnt have been in a position to make the 
loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
I think Buddy Loans focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Miss N 
on a pounds and pence basis. But as Ive already explained, the lender was required to 
establish whether the borrower could sustainably meet her loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Miss N had fairly recently defaulted on two accounts: a telecommunications account in July 
2015 and a credit card account defaulted in January 2015 with both remaining unpaid. The 
credit card account had been given a delinquent payment status for several months without 
any payments being received before a default was recorded on the account. It is clear from 
seeing this credit information that Miss N was having problems managing her finances and 
more likely than not would not be in a position to make the repayments from this loan in a 
sustainable way. In addition to the two recent defaults, Miss N was also over her limit on a 
credit card, had just taken out another short-term loan and had two other defaults that 
although were from 2012, were still outstanding and to be repaid by Miss N. I think it would 
have been reasonable for Buddy Loans to conclude that despite the disposable income 
calculation that it arrived at, Miss N was struggling to manage her finances.
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Miss N was finding it difficult to get out from under her debt problems and taking 
on another loan for a holiday would only be adding to this. It was unlikely that she would be 
able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms provided. I think in these 
particular circumstances (from the adverse credit information on her report); Buddy Loans 
should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to her.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think Buddy Loans should have agreed to 
provide the loan to Miss N. So, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint and direct 
Buddy Loans to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Buddy Loans responded and said it has no further comments. 
Miss N responded and also had nothing further to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, Buddy Loans now needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ns complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss N to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Buddy Loans should:Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Miss 
N made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Miss Ns loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Buddy Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ns credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ns complaint and direct Advancis Limited t/a Buddy 
Loans to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman