DRN-3570895
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Gaudi Regulated Services Ltd held funds in a suspense account, after 
theyd been transferred to Gaudi from a previous pension provider, for too long without 
telling him, causing him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr Y had a pension with a company Ill call PL here. He approached PL about transferring 
his pension to Gaudi in March 2020, but shortly before the transfer took place, he asked 
Gaudi to put the transfer on hold. Gaudi then advised PL, and the transfer was stopped. 
Mr Y then approached Gaudi again on 22 July 2020 to resurrect the transfer. However, on 
30 July 2020, he contacted Gaudi and again asked them to cancel it. It appears to have 
been too late for PL to stop the transfer, and the funds were sent to Gaudi on 7 August 2020. 
PL wrote to Gaudi on this date to advise them. On 16 August 2020, Gaudi emailed PL to ask 
for their bank details, so they could return the money to PL. No response was provided. 
Instead Gaudi received an email asking for information to assist with a complaint Mr Y had 
made to PL (also subsequently dealt with by this Service). Gaudi responded, again asking 
for the bank details, and impressing on PL that the funds hadnt been invested by them and 
were waiting for return. These exchanges were also added to Mr Ys online communication 
record with Gaudi and would have been visible to him.
Mr Y then contacted Gaudi again on 13 November 2020, asking them to resurrect the 
transfer with PL. Gaudi advised they still held the funds received from PL, as they hadnt 
been transferred back. Mr Y became aware Gaudi had continued to hold his funds in a 
suspense account since August. And because Gaudi hadnt made him aware of this, he 
complained to them. He said hed lost the opportunity to invest these funds during the period 
Gaudi held them, meaning  hed lost out on investment gains that would have occurred. 
Gaudi didnt uphold the complaint  they felt theyd made Mr Y aware the funds hadnt been 
transferred back to PL. Also, this information would have been aware on his online account. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Y brought his complaint to this Service. However, our Investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She felt Gaudi had been clear in letting Mr Y know that theyd 
received the money from PL and had copied him into their email to PL about arranging for it 
to be transferred back. She concluded it wasnt Gaudis fault that Mr Y assumed the money 
had been sent back  Gaudi told him they had the money, and neither they (or PL) had led 
him to believe it had been sent back. She also concluded Gaudi did nothing wrong by not 
investing the funds without Mr Ys specific instruction. 
Mr Y was unhappy with our Investigators View. He felt Gaudi hadnt kept him fully up to date 
regarding the funds. He asked why they didnt place the funds in his account with them, 
where they would be visible, rather than keep them in a suspense account. He asked that 
his complaint be reviewed by an Ombudsman, and its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by making clear that Ill be focussing my review on what happened after Gaudi 
became aware that PL had transferred Mr Ys funds to them on 7 August 2020. Up until this 
point, Im satisfied that Gaudi had acted appropriately  they were made aware of Mr Ys 
request to terminate the transfer from PL on 30 July 2020 and advised PL accordingly via 
the Origo pension transfer service. They only became aware that request hadnt been 
actioned on 7 August 2020. 
And having looked carefully at the evidence in this case  and also at some of the relevant 
documentation contained in our casefile concerning Mr Ys earlier complaint against PL  I 
agree with the outcome reached by our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute Gaudi emailed PL on 16 August 2020 asking for account details for the 
funds to be returned. Mr Y was copied into this email. Mr Y agrees he was clearly aware that 
Gaudi were in possession of his funds at that time. But he says hed assumed the funds had 
been returned to PL, and he only became aware they hadnt in November 2020 during 
exchanges with Gaudi. 
However, I havent seen any evidence (in both case files) that I think would have given Mr Y 
reasonable cause to believe his funds had been returned. He knew Gaudi were in 
possession of the funds in mid-August. He knew Gaudi had made enquiries to seek their 
return. And he heard nothing further, from Gaudi or PL, to advise a transfer back to PL had 
occurred  an update I think Mr Y would have reasonably expected to receive had such a 
transfer taken place. Its absence should, I think on balance, have reasonably alerted Mr Y 
that the transfer back request hadnt been actioned. 
Gaudi have provided us with details of the dates and times Mr Y logged on to his online 
portal, as evidence that hed have been aware of the status of his funds. But, whilst I can see 
he logged on in August and September 2020, I havent seen what information would have 
been available for him to see on his portal  a screenshot for instance. The funds were in a 
suspense account, and its not clear if they would have been visible on his account. Mr Y 
says they werent at that time, and Ive no reason to doubt him on that point. But I dont think 
this is the key issue here. 
I also think Gaudis communications with Mr Y on the subject werent as detailed as they 
could have been. They retained his funds, and I think could maybe have done more to keep 
him appraised of their efforts to return them  and been more proactive in their efforts to 
engage with PL to seek a response to their 16 August 2020 request. 
But against that, Im conscious that Mr Y was left in no doubt by PL that theyd completed 
their transfer as requested (the cancellation request having come too late to stop it). Ive 
seen PLs letter to Mr Y dated 23 August 2020 making clear the transfer had gone ahead 
(concluding that if Gaudi advised them theyd made a mistake in the transfer request 
process theyd review the matter again), and PLs final response letter dated 23 September 
2020 which mentions PL had asked Gaudi to confirm if thered been any loss suffered as a 
result of a one-day delay in transferring the funds. So, taken together, I think Mr Y was in possession of enough information to have reasonably 
concluded the funds had never been returned to PL. And that being the case, I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mr Y to have realised he needed to contact Gaudi to discuss what 
to do about the funds they continued to hold. They were his pension funds, and I think its 
reasonable to have expected him to proactively chase their status and whereabouts given 
the transfer confusion that occurred before. 
Our Service approaches complaints such as this by also considering whether a consumer 
took reasonable action to mitigate any losses they believe theyve suffered. Here, as Ive 
said above, I think Mr Y should have reasonably been aware Gaudi still had his funds, and 
so he could have mitigated his losses by approaching them sooner than he did. Having 
looked at the PL complaint file, I can see he did make many unsuccessful attempts to 
contact PL in August and September 2020  albeit about his complaint with them. Had these 
attempts been successful, maybe theyd have confirmed they didnt have, and werent 
expecting (as his account had been closed with them after the transfer) the funds to be 
returned. But, I can t see that Mr Y chased Gaudi in the same way  again which if he had 
done, would most likely have confirmed they still held the funds.  
I also want to address the issue of whether Gaudi should have invested the funds after 
receiving them. I dont think they should. Gaudi were aware of Mr Ys initial request to have 
them returned, and so the funds would have needed to remain in cash for that purpose. And 
Gaudi wouldnt have been able to invest the funds without Mr Ys specific authority, which 
they didnt have until November 2020 (when investments were then made).
I must say that none of the above should be read as a criticism of Mr Y  I want to be clear it 
certainly isnt that. But it does mean I think Gaudi cant fairly be held responsible for any 
delays in the reinvestment of the funds it held, and the fact Mr Y remained unaware they 
held the funds until November 2020.
Accordingly, whilst I do appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr Y, and I do 
sympathise that hes felt unwittingly caught between two businesses here, I wont be asking 
Gaudi to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman