DRN-4436927
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that the London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) will not refund the 
money he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr D has used a representative to bring his complaint to this service. For ease, I will refer 
solely to Mr D throughout this decision.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam, so I will provide only a summary here. 
Mr D met a person on social media website who I will call B. After a short period of time, B 
started mentioning that she worked in finance and made money trading crypto. Mr D was 
persuaded to make the following payments to Binance - a crypto exchange. We do not know 
if they were card payments or transfers. The funds were then sent on to scammers.
Transaction 
NumberDate Payee Amount
1 24/10/2022 Binance £200
2 24/10/2022 Binance £500
3 24/10/2022 Binance £500
4 25/10/2022 Binance £300
5 25/10/2022 Binance £700
6 26/10/2022 Binance £1,000
7 26/10/2022 Binance £2,000
8 27/10/2022 Binance £1,000
9 27/10/2022 Binance £1,000
10 28/10/2022 Binance £1,000
11 25/11/2022 Binance £450
12 26/11/2022 Binance £50
13 29/11/2022 Binance £750
14 30/11/2022 Binance £20
15 01/12/2022 Binance £15
16 02/12/2022 Binance £15
17 04/12/2022 Binance £42
18 04/12/2022 Binance £50
Mr D attempted to withdraw the profits that he made with B but he was told that he would 
have to pay further fees. After some back and forth with B Mr D realised that he had been 
scammed.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2023 in which I said something similar to the 
following; 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr D made and authorised the payments. Mr D knew who he was 
paying, and the reason why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed he 
was transferring funds to invest in cryptocurrency.
Its also accepted that LCCU has an obligation to follow Mr Ds instructions. So in the first 
instance, Mr D is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time.
LCCU also has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to 
accounts with it. Specifically, Im mindful that it: must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2);
has a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might 
be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook, which has applied since 2001);
must fairly and reasonably monitor accounts and any payments made or received, to 
counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud and 
scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship, including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship;
must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so, given the 
increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years.
With this in mind, I currently think LCCU should be liable for payments 7 to 18. Ill explain 
why
Payments 1 to 6
Financial institutions such a LCCU have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for LCCU to process these payments given their value even 
though they were larger than the payments Mr D usually made. I note that the number of 
transactions over a short time to a crypto exchange would sometimes have been enough on 
their own to have prompted questions regardless of their size, but in this instance, on 
balance, I think that it was okay for LCCU not to have questioned them.
Payment 7
I think LCCU ought to have carried out further checks and spoken to Mr D before processing 
this transaction. It was double the amount of payment 6, and was made on the same day as 
payment six. By this point over £5,000 was sent to a new payee over multiple transactions to 
a crypto exchange. This pattern, alongside the increasing size of the transactions, has the 
hallmarks of a crypto scam. Customers often move money onto a crypto account in their own 
name, before moving it on again to scammers; and that scams like this commonly take place 
with multiple payments, starting at a low value.I also appreciate that Mr Ds loss didnt materialise directly from his LCCU account in these 
circumstances. But even though he was sending funds to a crypto account in his own name, 
I still think that LCCU ought to have taken a closer look at payment 7  given the significant 
risk of fraud associated with cryptocurrency investments at the time.
The FCA and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. 
And by January 2019, cryptocurrency scams continued to increase in frequency. So, by the 
time Mr D started making his investments in October 2022, it is reasonable to say LCCU 
ought to have had a good enough understanding of how crypto scams works  including the 
fact that their customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it 
on again to the fraudster.
Therefore, Im satisfied that LCCU shouldve had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent 
this type of fraud at the time Mr D was making this payment, and that it should have led to it 
intervening to ask further questions about payment 7.
I would expect LCCU to have intervened and asked Mr D who the payment was for, what it 
was for, and for the basic surrounding context of the payment - it could, for example have, 
asked how he had been contacted, whether hed parted with personal details in order to 
open a trading account, whether he was being helped by any third parties e.g. a broker, and 
how he had come across the investment, which in this case was via social media.
I have no reason to believe Mr D wouldnt have been open with LCCU, and I think he would 
have taken its intervention seriously. So I think LCCU would have quickly learned from its 
conversation with Mr D the basic background to the payment instruction  that he was 
buying cryptocurrency, to send onto what he thought was a cryptocurrency type trading 
investment which hed decided to pursue after learning about it via social media.
Even though the conversation would have identified the payment was going to Mr Ds own 
cryptocurrency account (before being sent onto the scammers), the conversation shouldnt 
have stopped there on the basis that the money appeared to be going to somewhere safe 
and within Mr Ds control. This is because by 2022 LCCU knew  or ought to have been well 
aware  how scams like this work  including that the customer often moves money onto an 
account in their own name, before moving it on again to scammers.
So, I think LCCU would have been concerned by what the conversation would most likely 
have revealed and so warned Mr D, explaining the typical characteristics of scams like this. 
Had it done so, I think Mr D would have listened and recognised he was at risk. I am 
satisfied he would have had second thoughts if LCCU had intervened effectively. It follows 
that I think Mr D would not have gone ahead with payment 7, nor any subsequent payments 
had LCCU taken reasonable steps to intervene and check that the payments were not being 
made as part of a fraud or scam.
Ive considered carefully whether Mr D should hold some responsibility for his loss, by way of 
contributory negligence. In this instance Mr Ds representative has explained that Mr D had 
done some research on B. But the reviews that it provided as part of its submissions all 
seem to be negative  which shouldve put Mr D on notice that B may not be legitimate, or at 
the very least, ought to have made him question whether it was wise to keep sending large 
sums of money to B.I have searched for reviews for B but cant find much about it. So I am 
unsure on how much research Mr D had actually done. 
So overall and having considered everything, I think that Mr D contributed to his own loss. 
So I currently feel that it would be appropriate to reduce the amount of compensation due to 
Mr D by 50%.I have considered whether LCCU could have recovered the funds in question but given the 
funds went to a Binance account in his own name, a chargeback would not have been 
successful and I dont think that there was any other way of it recovering the funds either.
Putting things right
Currently I think that it is fair that LCCU:
Refund 50% of transactions 7 to 18
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on these transactions from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement, less any appropriate tax

Mr D agreed with my provisional decision LCCU did not respond by the deadline provided,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points I see no reason to change the outcome that I 
proposed in my provisional decision.
So in summary I think that LCCU should have intervened during transaction 7 and had it 
done so the scam would have been stopped. So I think that LCCU should refund transaction 
7 onwards and there should be a 50% deduction in the refund as I think Mr D contributed to 
this own loss.
So  for the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint in part.
Putting things right
LCCU should do the following:
Refund 50% of transactions 7 to 18
Pay 8% simple interest, per year, on these transactions from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement, less any appropriate tax
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and London Community Credit Union 
Limited should pay the redress outlined above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman