DRN-2147011
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment that it says it 
made in error.
What happened
A made a payment from its bank account on 29 July 2019 for an invoice. The payment was 
made using the mobile app. On 6 September 2019 the director of A contacted Revolut to say 
that the person itd sent the money to hadnt received it.
Revolut explained that this payment had gone to one of its other account holders. It says that 
when a payment is set up if the name matches a phone number in the senders contact list it 
can be made directly. So, this was sent as an internal payment. It had tried to contact the 
recipient on multiple occasions but hadnt had a response. It had told A to contact the 
authorities about it and could then disclose information about the person who had received 
the money.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Revolut had 
told this service that:
While in an internal transfer the user goes to the payment section and selects one of his
contacts (the people that have their phone numbers registered in his phone and that happen
to have Revolut accounts), the user then selects a contact, enters the amount and the
transfer is sent.
As Revolut had not had a response from the beneficiary it was something that A would need 
to take up with the relevant authorities.
A did not agree. The director said that this service should be investigating this further and 
didnt understand our role. And Revolut hadnt told A which authorities to contact and how 
they could help. It should have frozen the account and asked the recipient for proof the funds 
were legitimately received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to explain first that this service provides informal dispute resolution. We look at the 
evidence and submissions from both parties to a complaint. But we dont have a role say in 
conducting any criminal investigation. I need here to decide whether Revolut has made a 
mistake and if it has acted reasonably.
There is no evidence that this payment instruction was made to an account at a different 
financial business whatever A might have originally intended. The payment in question was 
made as an internal one between Revolut account holders. And Revolut has explained how 
that can be set up by matching to an existing contact. Im afraid it was fairly down to A to 
establish that this was the correct person it was sending the money to or to clarify that if it 
was unsure. Im satisfied on balance that the payment had been authorised by A.
A has asserted that the genuine beneficiary hasnt received it. And its conclusion is that 
someone with the same name and an account at Revolut got it instead. There was no 
suggestion of any scam here. And so Revolut didnt have a fair basis to decide whether or 
not the money should have been received by its account holder or not. It told A that it made 
multiple attempts to contact this person but received no response. In any event the issue 
was raised some five weeks after the payment, and I think it is unlikely that had those funds 
been received incorrectly they would still be available.
I think Revolut made reasonable attempts to resolve the issue and to ask the recipient about 
the payment. I dont consider it had a basis simply to remove that money. 
As a result, I think its suggestion that A contact the relevant authorities if it thought a crime 
had been committed here was a reasonable one. And it told A that it would provide 
information to the authorities as part of such an investigation. I wouldnt have expected it to 
do more and it was up to A to pursue this. And as Ive explained the extent of our role is to 
look at a complaint by A against Revolut. Having done so I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Revolut to do anything further. I appreciate that this will be a great disappointment to 
the director of A.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman