DRN-1678585
 
Complaint
Mr S and Ms W complain that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr S and Ms W were sold a PPI policy in 2001 during a meeting in connection with a 
mortgage.
The monthly benefit of the policy was split between Mr S and Ms W. It would have continued 
to pay the monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr S and/or Ms W were off work 
sick or lost their job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr S and Ms Ws complaint should be upheld. Mr S and Ms W 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S and Ms Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S and Ms Ws complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr S and Ms W were eligible for the policy. Given Mr S 
and Ms Ws age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they were 
eligible.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr S and Ms W that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr S and Ms W say they were led to 
believe that because they were young they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. They say 
they had sufficient existing repayment provisions and didnt need PPI.
I cant know for sure what was discussed between the parties. So Ive thought carefully 
about everything Mr S, Ms W and HSBC have told us and looked to the documents from the 
time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the financial planning review carried out in June 2001. 
This shows that some discussion took place about PPI. Its clear from this review document 
that when Mr S and Ms W didnt want to discuss particular types of policies or their needs, 
they gave clear instructions for them not to be discussed. However, from this same 
document I can see that Mr S and Ms W wanted protection in the case of accident and 
unemployment and that the representative recommended PPI. The representative has indicated on this document that Ms S and Ms W accepted his recommendation for PPI. Mr S 
and Ms W have signed a declaration confirming the accuracy of this document. There was 
no mention in this document that PPI was compulsory for Mr S and Ms W. I also note that 
the PPI was free for the first six months. This would have been an incentive for Mr S and Ms 
W to take PPI and I dont think HSBC would have needed to offer it free for the first six 
months if it was compulsory anyway. The review also shows that although the representative 
thought that they should obtain protection for over 12 months, Mr S and Ms W didnt want to 
due to increased costs.
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr S and Ms W have told us, I think its more likely that 
Mr S and Ms W would have been aware the PPI was optional and that it was only added to 
their account because they requested it.
HSBC say they advised Mr S and Ms W to take PPI out. This means they had to check that 
PPI was suitable for Mr S and Ms W. I dont know if HSBC took all the steps they should 
have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S and Ms W but I do think the policy was 
suitable for them. I say this because:
 
The PPI was protecting a valuable asset. Mr S and Mr W say they would have 
received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from their employers if 
they were off work sick. However, I think the information contained about their 
employee benefits is likely to have been more accurate during their financial 
planning review in 2001. This showed that Mr S would have been paid for up to 26 
weeks by his employer and Ms W would have been paid for up to 12 weeks. The PPI 
would have paid out for a much longer period of time and in addition to this sick pay. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr S and Ms W were entitled to the longer amount of 
sick pay they say they were, the PPI would still have been suitable as it would have 
paid out in addition to this sick pay and would have been particularly useful when Mr 
S and Ms Ws sick pay reduced to half. It would also have paid out if they lost their 
job/s and again in addition to any redundancy pay Mr S and Ms W may have been 
entitled to. The mortgage was a long term commitment and repeated claims under 
the policy would have been possible.
 
Mr S and Ms W didnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which 
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests Mr S and Ms W found the policy to have 
been unaffordable at the time of the sale.
 
Mr S and Ms W couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially 
if they no longer needed or wanted it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr S and Ms W, HSBC also had to give 
them clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S and Ms W wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think HSBC mis-sold Mr S and Ms W 
this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S and Ms Ws complaint against HSBC Bank plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman