DRN-3300710
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he voluntarily 
terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2022 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that he signed in March 2014. The car had a price of £32,647.90, Mr M 
paid a deposit of £500 so the amount of credit was £32,147.90, and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £37,954.52. Mr M agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £459.99 for the car to be supplied to him and an acceptance 
fee of £180. If he wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have 
to pay an optional purchase payment of £15,100 and a purchase activation fee of 
£95.
The agreement said that Mr M had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being 
£18,977.26). Mr M voluntarily terminated the agreement in August 2017 and he was 
charged £1,293.30 for excess mileage because hed exceeded the mileage 
allowance, which Mercedes-Benz Finance had calculated on a pro rata basis as 
35,000 miles, by 11,975 miles.
Mr M complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the excess mileage charge and 
he said that hed agreed a mileage allowance of 12,000 miles per year. Mercedes-
Benz Finance said that the contracted mileage allowance was 10,000 miles per year 
and that the obligation to pay an excess mileage charge if the return mileage 
exceeded the total mileage allowance was set out in the agreement. It said the 
mileage allowance had been re-calculated on a prorate basis in line with the length of 
time that Mr M had had the car and that, as hed exceeded the allowance of 35,000 
miles, the charge had been raised correctly and remained payable.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has calculated the excess at a pro-rata rate which isnt 
specified in the contract and that its contradictory to sections 99(2) and 173 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. He says that hes offered to cover the mileage over the 
contracted figure of 40,000 miles, which he says is £627.75, which hasnt been 
accepted by Mercedes-Benz Finance but still stands.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The agreement says:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is 
£18,977.26. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to 
pay any more.
The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle, an excess distance 
charge will be payable at the rate of 9.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by 
which the total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire 
exceeds the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 10000 Miles per year 
(see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Mr M.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do 
not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle and the excess mileage charge is 
then calculated on the basis of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it 
would only be known after the agreement had been terminated. For these reasons, I 
consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these 
circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in 
respect of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the 
creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Mr M for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if hed already paid that amount, he 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 100(4) allows for the amount to be 
increased if Mr M had failed to take reasonable care of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car 
isnt returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage 
limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any 
excess mileage charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider 
that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would 
reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr M had failed to take reasonable 
care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for 
excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Mr M has paid at least £18,977.26 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider 
that its allowed to also charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even 
if Im mistaken about this, I still consider that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld 
because the agreement isnt as clear about the excess mileage charges as it should 
have been.
I consider that an underlying lack of clarity in the agreement about the cost of 
voluntarily terminating it is also an important consideration as to whether its fair and 
reasonable for a charge for any excess mileage to be made in these circumstances.
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been 
or that its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the 
following reasons:
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your 
rights specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include 
in the agreement which says, in effect, that if Mr M had paid at least half the 
total amount payable under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more 
 and theres no further comment in that section about excess mileage 
charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I 
dont consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of 
contract as the contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit 
and I dont consider that excess mileage charges would be properly 
considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but 
doesnt specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should 
terminate the agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another 
condition which deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the 
car;
condition 8 lists what Mr M would need to do and pay when terminating early 
and reiterates that he must comply with the terms of the statutory notice - 
one of which is that he wont need to pay more than £18,977.26;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early 
termination - but I consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement 
about Mr Ms liability if he voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that the 
terms of the agreement are consistent with the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act;
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only 
appears to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;
the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are 
clearly set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating 
to charges for excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early 
termination, are not given equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre 
not clearly and consistently set out or referred to; and
condition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is 
not signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Mr Ms attention to it 
if he was intending to return the car early.I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr M in a way that 
he was unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that he was properly or adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the 
£18,977.26 payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5.
For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that 
the agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I 
consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Mr M 
financially and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances.
Mr Ms complaint included that hed agreed a mileage allowance of 12,000 miles per 
year and that Mercedes-Benz Finance has calculated the excess mileage at a pro-
rata rate which isnt specified in the contract. As I dont consider that its fair or 
reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr M for excess mileage, I havent 
considered those issues any further.
I understand that Mr M hasnt paid the excess mileage charge of £1,293.30  though 
he has offered to pay £627.75 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and it hasnt accepted that 
offer. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to now 
remove the excess mileage charge of £1,293.30 from Mr Ms account and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require him to pay £627.75 to 
Mercedes-Benz Finance. If Mercedes-Benz Finance has recorded any adverse 
information on Mr Ms credit file relating to that charge, I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to remove that information.
Subject to any further comments from Mr M or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted 
my provisional decision but Mr M hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted my provisional decision and Mr M hasnt 
responded to it, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Ms account.2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman