DRN-3012717
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the decision by Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) to 
settle a third-party claim made against his motor insurance policy. 
Any reference to Mulsanne includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr O and Mulsanne. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. 
In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. Our 
investigator considered this complaint and she recommended that it not be upheld. Mr O 
didnt accept the investigators recommendations so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I know that Mr O has very strong views about what happened in the incident. He says the 
third party is fraudulent and that Mulsanne didnt properly investigate the claim. But its not 
our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a court can consider. 
When coming to my decision the key things I need to decide are whether Mulsanne has:
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy; and
dealt with the claim fairly when making its own decision on liability.
Ive considered the policys terms and conditions which sets out the insurance agreement 
between Mulsanne and Mr O. These allow Mulsanne to defend and settle a claim as it sees 
fit. The relevant term is:
We shall have discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or in the settlement of 
any claim.
It also doesnt need Mr Os approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make 
a payment to a third party. Mulsanne also isnt obliged to take a case to court even where 
the policy holder wants it to do so. As a business, the insurer are allowed to consider the 
potential costs and risks of proceeding to court. That might mean it makes a decision the 
policy holder disagrees with - as has happened here.
Taking everything into account, I find that Mulsanne investigated matters reasonably. And 
Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it decided to settle the claim 
by accepting liability for it. 
When notified of the third-party claim, Mulsanne got in contact with Mr O. They considered 
his account of what happened and say they let him know during a call on 5 January 2021 
that hed likely be held liable as it was his action of sharply braking that caused the 
third-party cyclist to fall off their bike - even if there wasnt direct contact. I appreciate that 
Mr O disputes this.
An email was also sent to Mr O on the same date outlining that unfortunately Mr O would be 
held responsible for the accident and gave him five working days to respond should he want 
to dispute liability. Mr O has confirmed he did receive the email, but interpreted it as meaning 
he only needed to get in contact with Mulsanne should he receive any documents from the 
third party. Im satisfied that Mulsanne were treating Mr O fairly in giving him an opportunity 
to give his side of the story.
As no response was received from Mr O, Mulsanne made the decision to settle the third 
party claim on the best possible terms. I dont find this unreasonable and the next course of 
action was outlined in the email. Im satisfied Mulsanne considered the evidence, the 
location, nature of the incident and what Mr O said in the 5 January phone call. Ive also kept 
in mind that Mulsanne will have experience of how courts view such matters (motorist and 
cyclist accidents), and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. 
I understand Mr O feels strongly about this and I know he believes the third-party to be 
making a fraudulent claim. But, as Ive explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. 
Mulsanne considered the evidence and reached the conclusion that the damage and injuries  
being claimed for by the third-party were in line with what theyd reasonably expect given an 
accident of this nature. 
What Ive looked at is whether Mulsanne has followed the policy terms and exercised its 
discretion fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle the case as it has done here. And Im 
satisfied it has. So I wont be asking Mulsanne to do anything to put things right in relation to 
this matter. 
I know Mr O will naturally be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Mulsanne  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman