DRN-2626222
The complaint
 Mr P is unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) offered to settle 
his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside his credit card.
 
What happened
 Mr P opened his credit card account ending 2771 in 1987. He believes he took out PPI at 
the same time as he opened the account. 
When Mr P first complained to Lloyds about mis-sold PPI he complained about a number of 
credit card accounts he had with Lloyds. Lloyds responded saying it could find no PPI on his 
other credit card accounts but on account ending 2771(previously 6084) there was PPI, but 
Lloyds didnt agree that this PPI had been mis-sold.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. We considered the 
information provided by Mr P and Lloyds and recommended that the complaint that the PPI 
was mis-sold on account 2771 should be upheld. Lloyds indicated it agreed with this 
recommendation and said it would offer compensation for the mis-sold PPI.
When Lloyds made its offer, it had calculated the PPI started in May 1997, not in 1987, and 
ended in December 1999. It said it had limited records about the account but those it had 
indicated no PPI was paid after January 2000 and there was an indication the earliest date 
the PPI started was May 1997. Based on these dates Lloyds made an average offer for the 
period of £1,577.62 to settle the complaint.
Mr P said the offer should cover the period from 1987, not 1997 as had been indicated, so 
the compensation should be more. Our adjudicator agreed and said Lloyds should calculate 
the compensation based on the period April 1987 to December 1999.
Lloyds didnt agree and so the matter has been referred to me for consideration and a 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Mr P first complained to Lloyds about the mis-sold PPI it wrote to him saying it could 
only find PPI on one account, that for credit card ending 2771. Lloyds said it had assessed 
the sale on the basis it took place when the card opened in 1987, and it had found the PPI 
wasnt mis-sold. 
After the complaint was brought to this service, Lloyds provided its response and information 
about the mis-sale and this indicated that Lloyds did not dispute PPI was sold to Mr P, that 
the start date of the PPI was unknown and therefore it would use the date the card was 
opened in April 1987, as the date the PPI was taken out. 
However, after the complaint was recommended to be upheld, and Lloyds agreed to that, 
Lloyds sent the case to its redress team to carry out the calculation of the compensation 
due. The records Lloyds held about this account were very limited, with no specific 
information available about the amounts of any premiums paid.
The offer made to Mr P of £1,577.62 was based on data Lloyds holds about other customers 
who had similar accounts for a similar time period of time. This is considered a reasonable 
way to assess compensation when no actual data is available. But here Lloyds used the 
dates of May 1997 to December 1999 as the period Mr P had PPI active on his account. 
Lloyds has full statements from January 2000 and none of these statements show any PPI 
being charged. So Lloyds accepted the PPI could have run to just before the statements 
started, which would have been December 1999. This seems a reasonable approach. 
For the start date there is a note on Lloyds records that indicates the earliest start date could 
have been May 1997. But Lloyds has also confirmed that in May 1997 it transferred its 
records to a new system, and the date indicated as the possible start date is the exact date 
the records went onto the new system. 
There is nothing to indicate why Mr P may have taken out PPI at this time in May 1997. The 
account was open and had been running since April 1987 and there are no records to show 
changes, such as a new card, a request for a change in credit limit or other reason why Mr P 
may have been in contact in May 1997 and agreed to take out the PPI. 
Based on the evidence I have seen I think that the May 1997 date is a default date, being 
the date the account transferred to a new system, and I also think this default date for the 
PPI indicates that there was PPI on the account at that time in 1997 when the records 
transferred.
Our adjudicator said that Lloyds should work out the compensation based on the PPI starting 
in April 1987 when the card account opened and that it stopped in December 1999, as 
indicated by Lloyds, this being the last month before its records showed no PPI was paid.
After this recommendation was made saying the start date should be April 1987, Lloyds 
indicated that its redress team considered there was no PPI on this account. But having got 
to the point in the complaint process where it had accepted there was PPI mis-sold and it 
had been willing to make an offer, it considered it would not be fair to now say no PPI was 
ever on the account. So the offer letter sent to Mr P indicated the compensation Lloyds was 
offering but made no mention of the fact Lloyds now considered there was no PPI on the 
account.
I have considered all the information available about this case and I have to base my 
decision on the evidence presented by both parties. As I have indicated there is a note on 
the records from Lloyds suggesting the start date of the PPI may be May 1997. I think this 
supports the fact that there most likely would have been PPI on the account. In its initial 
response to this service about the mis-sale Lloyds stated that it did not dispute there was 
PPI sold on the credit card. So overall, I am satisfied on the evidence presented there was 
PPI on Mr Ps credit card account.
Looking at the facts and Mr Ps circumstances in 1987 I also agree with the view that the PPI 
was mis-sold. Mr P has a pre-existing medical condition, so the PPI wasnt suitable for him. 
When this view was issued Lloyds agreed with the findings and recommendation and agreed 
to pay compensation. The fact that the redress team at Lloyds could not find any specific data on amounts paid for 
PPI means it makes it more difficult for any calculation or estimate to be made as to what 
Mr P may have paid for the PPI. So I think the fair approach is to use an average payment, 
as it indicated.
 
Putting things right
 In summary, on the evidence I have seen I am satisfied there was PPI sold to Mr P related 
to his credit card account ending 2771 and that the PPI was mis-sold. Therefore, Lloyds 
must pay compensation to Mr P for the mis-sale. 
As there is no specific data on exactly what Mr P paid for the PPI, I think an average off is 
fair, but this should be based on the PPI being active on the account from the opening date 
of the account. 
I have taken account of the date on Lloyds systems suggesting the start date may have 
been May 1997. But as I have said, this seems to be the date the account records were 
transferred to a different system and so I think this is a default date inserted as being the 
start date of the account on that system. I think it more likely the PPI started in April 1987, 
taken out at the same time the credit card account opened. 
Therefore, I think based on the limited evidence submitted it is fair and reasonable that 
Lloyds should pay Mr P an average offer for the compensation due, based on the start date 
for the PPI being April 1987 and the end date December 1999. 
My final decision
 I am directing that Lloyds Bank PLC pay Mr P compensation for the mis-sold PPI policy 
based on an average offer, using the period from April 1987 to December 1999 as the time 
the PPI was active on the account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman