DRN-2869858
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC when he was locked 
out of his mobile banking app. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
I understand that Barclays restored access to Mr S mobile app within around seven 
days and that he was able to make the payments he needed to make by other 
means. So, Mr S hasnt lost out financially as a result of the problem he encountered 
with the app.       
Barclays has not disputed Mr S version of events about the service he received and 
the inconvenience he experienced while trying to resolve the problem with the app. It 
has apologised and offered him £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
So, my role here is to decide whether £200 is enough to fairly recognise the 
inconvenience Mr S experienced or if Barclays should pay more.   
I understand Mr S feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable 
amount, given what hes said about his hourly rate at work and having to take off time 
work to travel to a branch. But we look at the overall impact a business mistake had 
on the complainant  rather than awarding compensation based on units of time or at 
a complainants hourly rate. I see no reason to depart from that approach in this 
case.
Ive thought about the impact Barclays service had on Mr S overall. This includes the 
time he spent on the phone, having to visit a branch some distance away from his 
home and the time he didnt have access to the app. Ive also taken into account that 
the visit to the branch was made during the Covid-19 pandemic when Mr S was 
shielding with his partner who was pregnant. 
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating for Mr S. But having thought 
about this carefully, I consider £200 to be a fair reflection of the inconvenience he 
has been put to. 
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Barclays offer of compensation is a fair one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I consider the compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC to be 
fair. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr S £200 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman