DRN-1602120
 
The complaint
Mrs F and the estate of Mr F complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs F and Mr F bought a MPPI policy which started in April 2004 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy was sold during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds. Mr F was 
covered against accident, sickness and unemployment as the sole policy holder.
Mrs F says Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy. She says the policy was added to the mortgage 
without their knowledge. She also says that together Mrs F and Mr F held enough savings, 
sick pay and other insurance, that the policy wasn't needed.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs F doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs F and the estate of Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs F and the estate of Mr Fs complaint because of the following 
reasons:
I cant be sure how the insurance was presented to Mrs F and Mr F during the 
meeting they had with Lloyds when they were sold the MPPI policy. Mrs 
F has provided her recollections as to what happened including that the policy was 
added without their knowledge. But Mrs F has not been able to provide anything to 
support what she has said about the sale. Her recollections are also not detailed but 
this is understandable seen as many years has passed since this meeting took place. 
 
So because of what I have just concluded, I have needed to look further at the sales 
documentation to help me understand what most likely happened during this 
meeting. After considering the documentation provided and what I know of how 
Lloyds sold policies at the time of sale, it is most likely that Mrs F and Mr F were 
advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect their mortgage, and they 
took the policy on that advice.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation from the sale that I 
have suggests to me that the policy was presented as optional. I can see on a sales document called a payment protection plus proposal form that Mrs F and Mr F 
signed separately for the insurance. When this form was being completed, it seems 
to me that some discussion most likely would have been had around the suitability of 
having the policy, rather than Lloyds not making Mrs F and Mr F aware of the policy. I 
think it is most likely they were given a choice and advised on how the benefit would 
be split between Mrs F and Mr F (on this occasion it was 100% to Mr F). So because 
of what i have concluded i don't uphold Mrs F and the estate of Mr F's complaint on 
this point. 
 
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended MPPI to Mrs F and Mr F (rather than add it 
without their knowledge), but it doesnt look as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr 
F (as the sole policy holder) based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time 
of sale, in 2004. Mrs F has recently told our service that they both had savings of at 
least £28000 and Mr F would have had 12 months full sick pay. Mrs F also 
mentioned a life assurance policy. But this wouldn't have duplicated the cover 
provided by the MPPI policy. Mrs F also said they had access to a pension but it is 
unclear to me as to how accessible this would have been. In any case, on balance, i 
think they would've still found the policy to have been of some use at that time. The 
benefits provided by the policy would have paid out in addition to the provisions they 
held over an extended period, in a difficult time. Im not persuaded Mrs F and Mr F 
would have avoided protecting their repayments given the serious consequences of 
defaulting on a debt secured against their home. I can also see no other reasons 
such as a significant or restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable either.
 
I can see from the sales documentation that Mrs F and Mr F were clearly provided 
with the costs associated with the MPPI policy. It was reasonably priced compared to 
similar policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage repayments. 
And Mrs F and Mr F could have cancelled the policy at any time if it did become 
unaffordable.
 
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs F and Mr F wouldve been affected by any of these based on 
their circumstances at the time of sale.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs F, but on balance, I do not uphold 
her complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs F and the estate of Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and the 
estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman