DRN-3095341
The complaint
Miss H complains about irresponsible lending by PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA. Shes also 
unhappy they said theyd write off her debt under PayPal credit, but then changed their mind. 
And shes unhappy they keep sending her payment reminders when they said they wouldnt.
What happened
Ive copied below my provisional decision, which forms part of my final decision.
In August 2020 Miss H raised a complaint about PayPal credit. Shed been granted a £3,000 
credit limit with PayPal in January 2020. She said she was unable to pay back what shed 
spent  and said shed been irresponsibly lent to as her financial and mental health 
circumstances werent assessed like they should have been.
PayPal agreed to write off the debt, but she said they didnt provide any details about what 
this actually meant. Miss H said the debt still showed in her online account when she 
expected it to be treated as though it didnt exist anymore, and she was continuing to receive 
notifications about paying for the debt. So, actually, theyd not written it off she felt theyd just 
parked her debt. And, despite PayPal saying theyd suspend collections activity, they were 
still contacting her asking that she repay the debt.
Miss H shared with PayPal her health issues and how this debt is affecting her. But, as 
PayPal wouldnt write off the debt, she contacted our service  also sharing those details.
She explained when getting in touch with us that everyone else shed contacted had agreed 
to write off her debts with them due to her health issues.
In December 2020 PayPal provided their information to our service, which explained theyd 
agreed to a payment holiday Miss H had asked for in April 2020 of three months. They said 
they then agreed to token payments of £1 a month from July 2020. In August 2020 they said 
they received information from Miss H regarding her mental health and agreed to write off 
the debt and cease all collections activity.
One of our investigators considered everything. She explained there seemed to be some 
confusion over what PayPal had meant when they said theyd write-off the debt. She said 
PayPal seem to say a write-off is them ceasing collections activity and not asking for 
payment  but the debt will remain on her credit file. She added she felt PayPal had lent 
responsibly but noted Miss H was still being contacted for repayment after theyd told her 
they wouldnt contact her again. So, she felt £150 compensation would be fair.
Miss H didnt agree. She said shed have no meaningful chance of repaying this debt and 
said she wouldnt trust PayPal would honour what our investigator said  stopping the 
payment reminders. She said shed be consumed with worry PayPal would change their 
minds and start collections activity again unless its properly written off  particularly given 
theyve told her the debt is written off, and repeatedly said they wont contact her again 
about the debt but have continued to do so.
PayPal also didnt agree. They said according to our investigators findings theyd lent 
responsibly and carried out appropriate checks. They added they received and approved all 
requests from Miss H  including a three-month payment break, a £1 token payment, and 
then wrote off her debt and stopped collection activities. So, because they felt theyd 
provided a lot of assistance, they didnt think they should also have to pay £150 
compensation.
Since then, Miss H has sent us a number of chasers shes had from PayPal about paying 
the outstanding debt on this account.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses are required to carry out checks to ensure when theyre lending, 
theyre not doing so irresponsibly. Its up to each lender to decide how this is done, but the 
checks do need to be proportionate and borrower focused  and provide the lender with a 
reasonable understanding of whether the debt can be repaid sustainably.
Ive not spent a significant amount of time thinking about PayPals lending decision, and 
thats because I think the amount should be written off due to Miss Hs circumstances and 
PayPals actions since they said theyd write off the debt.
The doctors notes Miss H has provided make it clear that her medical conditions mean its 
unlikely shell ever work again. Ive seen her latest income and expenditure report which 
shows shes in a minus figure every month meaning she cant afford to repay anything 
towards this debt. So, its unlikely her financial position is going to improve given shes 
unlikely to ever work again and her current income isnt enough to support her living 
situation. And, even if she were to keep to the £1 a month figure which was agreed in July 
2020, it would take her over 100 years to repay the amount outstanding.
In addition, Miss Hs doctors have said Her debts exacerbate her anxiety. Miss H has 
explained PayPal not removing this debt from their records is having a mental and physical
effect on her.
PayPal have argued because theyve agreed to write off the debt and stop contacting her, 
theyve treated her fairly. But I can see PayPal are keeping a record of the debt on their 
systems and have continued to write to her even after they said they wouldnt. And I note 
that, even in response to our investigators view, they said theyd stopped contacting her 
about the debt  but they still havent done this. Miss H has continued to receive notifications 
about the debt which isnt fair in all the circumstances of this case.
In my opinion, its not unreasonable for Miss H to have understood write-off to mean shed 
be free from this debt going forward  its what the reasonable borrower would understand 
this to mean in the circumstances. And if that wasnt PayPals intention then I think itd have 
been good practice for PayPal to explain clearly to Miss H what was going to happen next 
and how the debt would be recognised going forward. Ive not seen that theyve done this, 
and its led to greater confusion and upset for Miss H than necessary.
Miss H says the only thing that would calm her anxiety is PayPal removing the debt from 
their records, and this is supported by her doctors note. And I do think its the right thing to 
do given her inability to repay, along with the evidence from her doctors  and PayPals 
actions showing theyve not done what they said they had. That means Im going to require 
PayPal to remove the debt from their records.But I do think that its important for me to emphasise that I havent gone as far as saying that 
the funds lent shouldnt have been provided in the first place. Im simply telling PayPal that it 
should formally write off this balance as theres no reasonable prospect of Miss H repaying it 
and this is unlikely to change going forward.
As Ive asked PayPal to do this its important they record the debt as written off with the 
credit reference agencies rather than removing all trace of the debt entirely. Miss H, and her 
doctors, have explained shell go through periods where she applies for credit when she 
shouldnt. So, it would be unreasonable for me to accept Miss Hs doctors conclusions in 
relation to the balance owed but depart from it in terms of her credit file going forward.
It cant be fair theres no record of this anywhere  and if this facility were completely 
removed from Miss Hs credit file and she were to have another episode of applying for 
credit in the future then lenders may not turn her down because her credit file would suggest 
she presented a better risk than she actually does. I think that this would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in Miss Hs best interests, or those of any potential 
lender. Im satisfied that recording an outstanding balance was written off on this account 
would potentially save Miss H anxiety in the future  and is fairer to potential future lenders 
so theyve got appropriate information on which to base their decision to lend.
PayPal removing this debt from their records should also mean Miss H isnt contacted again 
regarding the outstanding debt  as there wouldnt be a debt on PayPals records to chase.
So, Id expect that to stop any chasers PayPal would send. But I do think compensation is 
also appropriate for Miss H. I say that because PayPal have consistently explained theyve 
written off the debt  which to most people would mean they wont be contacted again  and 
then have contacted Miss H on multiple occasions to ask her to repay it. This has continued 
to happen even after they disagreed with our investigators assessment  where, in their 
reply, they said theyd stopped contacting her. I think £250 is a fair reflection of the distress 
caused to Miss H as a result of this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H replied and said she was happy with the decision and had nothing further to add.
PayPal provided a detailed response split into three areas:
Irresponsible lending  PayPal noted I hadnt commented on this but gave more 
details of the checks they carried out. They said these checks showed Miss H to be a 
low risk customer in terms of their lending. So, they thought their lending decision 
was reasonable and proportionate. But, said they were very sorry to hear of her 
health difficulties.
Write off  PayPal provided detail about whatd previously happened and explained 
their process when writing off a debt is to tell the consumer theyd cease any further 
collections activities. They said theyd sent a letter dated 4 November 2020 to Miss H 
setting this out. PayPal said they didnt then change their mind about the status of the 
debt  once this has been decided then thats how its recorded on their system. 
They said their process as a lender is to retain a record of all outstanding debts, but 
as theyve now formally charged off the debt it wont appear to Miss H. They said in 
my decision I required PayPal to report the debt was written off or some equivalent to 
show the debt is no longer outstanding but wasnt repaid in full. On 7 December 2020 
they defaulted the account  and thatll remain on the account for six years. The only 
way to reflect my requirement is to report the account as closed and partially settled 
 but theres no industry agreed reporting status for write off and reporting the account as partially settled isnt correct. They ask if my decision took this into 
account.
Collections contact after September 2020  they said sorry for this. Their records 
showed shed received three email payment reminders between September and 
December 2020. And they sent Miss H a default notice in December 2020 as theyre 
required to under the rules. PayPal explained the emails were an error due to a 
system configuration issue which been incorrectly applied to Miss Hs account  
they said this has since been resolved. PayPal said they have other accounts where 
theyve agreed to stop contacting people regarding the debt and havent been made 
aware of any issues regarding those accounts. They added had Miss H told them she 
was receiving communications after September 2020 then theyd have taken action 
immediately.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal have noted Ive not considered in detail whether they did or didnt lend irresponsibly, 
they just wanted to provide information regarding their checks  so Ill move to the next 
section.
In terms of the write off of the debt Ive noted PayPals comments that their process is to 
keep a record of the debt on their systems. But I cant see why thatd be justified in Miss Hs 
case. Any outstanding amount that was owed to PayPal now isnt, and PayPal having a 
record of this debt on their systems resulted in them continuing to send Miss H 
correspondence about it. As Ive set out above, this further correspondence caused Miss H 
anxiety, so I think the fair and reasonable thing to do here to ensure that no further 
correspondence is sent in error is to remove the debt. Ive also noted what PayPal said 
about registering a default  and how things should be recorded on with the credit reference 
agencies. I was unaware from the submissions provided by either party that PayPal had 
recorded a default.
Given PayPal had agreed to remove write off the debt, it seems unfair its been recorded as 
an unsatisfied default. I still think recording the debt as written off (in some capacity) is the 
fairest approach. And I dont think recording the case as partially settled would be 
unreasonable in the circumstances  as Miss H did make some payments to this debt.
As for the collections contact after September 2020 until December 2020 (which are the 
dates PayPal have identified they made errors in contact), theyve explained this was a 
system error  rather than intentional actions to upset Miss H. Ive seen no reason to doubt 
that, but regardless of the intention these contacts still had a significant impact on Miss H. I 
think Miss H will also be somewhat disappointed at PayPals comment that she should have 
contacted them after September 2020 and theyd have dealt with these contacts. Because 
she did contact them, and they didnt deal with the issue. Ive got evidence to show she did 
in October 2020, which was acknowledged by PayPal and she was told itd be looked into. If 
it was looked into then it wasnt done properly as the error wasnt discovered. And, I feel it 
important to point out Miss H has also provided us with several chasers received in January 
and February 2021 for payment on the account as well  so even when PayPal have replied 
to this point, they dont appear to have identified all of the contacts made in error which is 
disappointing.
Taking everything into account Ive seen no reason to depart from my initial conclusions 
which Ive set out below.Putting things right
I require PayPal to:
Remove any record of the debt from their systems
Ensure no chasers are sent now or in future regarding this debt
Remove the default and record with the appropriate credit reference agencies the 
debt was written off  or an appropriate equivalent to show the debt is no longer 
outstanding, but that it wasnt repaid in full
Pay Miss H £250 in compensation for their failure to stop contacting her regarding 
the debt
Write out to Miss H to confirm once all of these actions have taken place.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint, and require PayPal Europe 
Sarl & Cie, SCA to carry out the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman