DRN-1457578
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2002 together with a credit card. Mr R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr R said he was not aware he had PPI attached to his credit card. Our adjudicator thought 
the complaint should be rejected. Mr R disagreed with our adjudicator's view and asked for 
the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays probably made it clear on the internet application that Mr R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including what he said about his sick pay, 
redundancy pay and savings. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman