DRN-2671925
The complaint
This is a complaint that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold Ms F and Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which started in 1997 and which 
covered a mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms F and Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place about 24 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember. 
I dont have any evidence that HSBC didnt make clear the PPI was optional. And I think its 
likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it would 
have been presented as a choice.
Mr H has told us it felt like HSBC were trying to convince them to take out the policy and 
wanted to make more money out of them. Hes also said they advised him to take out the 
PPI without taking account of their other ways of paying the mortgage. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know what exact words 
were used by the adviser or the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say HSBC did something wrong unless 
I had stronger evidence of this. 
I think HSBC recommended the PPI to Ms F and Mr H, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Ms F and 
Mr Hs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Ms F and Mr Hs situation at the time: 
Its likely Ms F and Mr H were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if the need arose.  
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Ms F and Mr H received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Ms F and Mr H would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. And it seems, from what 
theyve said, they may not have had many savings in any case, at the time. So, this 
all would have put Ms F and Mr H in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Ms F and 
Mr H would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Ms F and Mr H to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Its hard to know how well HSBC explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont 
anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Ms F and Mr D took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely this 
would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman