DRN-3541524
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost as part of an 
investment scam.
What happened
In July 2020, Ms C invested in what she thought was an investment trading opportunity. The 
background of events isnt entirely clear, but from the available information it appears that 
Ms C was contacted by someone claiming to be a cryptocurrency trading expert who could 
help make her money grow. In the dispute claim form that she completed for HSBC, Ms C 
has mentioned the names of two firms  Parker Prime and Cofinancial. 
Ms C has told us that she checked customer reviews of the firms before selecting the ones 
she wanted to trade with. Shes also mentioned she had noticed many photographs of 
people (such as television presenters) who were trading on platforms and making hundreds 
of pounds. Shes told us she had previous investment history and as she had heard about 
this sort of trading being 100% successful, she decided to give it a go.
Ms C states that she was reassured by the broker that she would be trained and shown what 
she needed to do. She eventually realised she had been scammed when she tried phoning 
the broker but her trainer was never available. In August 2020, Ms C reached out to HSBC 
and requested a chargeback for the payments that she had already made. She also disputed 
some other transactions at the time, including one which she said she didnt authorise. In 
total, Ms C disputed six transactions (and associated non-sterling transaction fees, where 
applicable).
Unhappy with the lack of progress, Ms C complained to HSBC. It asked Ms C to complete a 
dispute form which, as I understand from what shes said, isnt something she had ever been 
asked to do previously when requesting a chargeback. Out of the six transactions, HSBC 
ultimately refunded three. But it refused to refund the remaining three (and the associated 
non-sterling transaction fees), which Ive noted below 
Date (bank 
statement)Type Merchant Amount
13 July 2020 Debit card JUBITER.COM £197.50
20 July 2020 Debit card RAVE LEKKI £159.88 
(plus £4.39 non-sterling 
transaction fee)
21 July 2020 Debit card SIPAY ISTANBUL £1,198.47 
(plus £32.95 non-sterling 
transaction fee) 
Total payments £1,555.85
(plus £41.64 non-sterling 
transaction fee)
Ms C referred her complaint to our service in August 2020. Since then, shes referred other 
complaints to us, including a further complaint about HSBC. Unfortunately, due to the 
different disputes a confusion ensued between her and our investigator about what 
conversation related to which case. The investigators view was that Ms C had provided 
conflicting version of events in relation to what happened regarding the above transactions 
and so there wasnt any persuasive evidence to conclude that HSBC should be held liable 
for them.
Ms C disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Her 
complaint was passed to me and having reviewed the file I agreed that what she had told our 
investigator about not authorising the transactions didnt relate to these specific transactions. 
I asked our investigator to request further information from both parties and once this was 
received, I issued my provisional in May 2022. I said that I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint and set out the following reasons: 
For the avoidance of any doubt, this decision solely relates to the disputed 
transactions listed above. I understand Ms C has recently received an outcome about 
a different transaction shes disputed that we considered under a separate case 
reference. There also appear to be other transactions Ms C has disputed which 
HSBC is currently investigating. Should she remain unhappy with the outcome of its 
investigation, the matter would be treated as a separate complaint if referred to our 
service.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment 
disputes between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in 
this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the 
merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, 
meaning there are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be 
accepted for a chargeback about investment scams to be considered valid, and 
potentially succeed. 
It is my understanding that Ms C was dealing with two brokers  Parker Prime and 
Cofinancial. Given the information Ive found about them during my research, I think 
its likely that Ms C fell victim to a scam rather than simply losing money as a result of 
a high-risk investment. 
But Ms C didnt make the debit card payments to Parker Prime or Cofinancial; she 
paid Jubiter, Rave and Sipay. This is important because HSBC was only able to 
chargeback against the merchant Ms C paid, not another party. 
It is my understanding that Jubiter is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange firm. The 
service provided by the exchange would be to convert Ms Cs payments into 
cryptocurrency. Therefore, the merchant she made the payments to did provide the 
service that had been requested. That the cryptocurrency may have been later 
transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt give rise to a valid chargeback 
claim against Jubiter. 
To the best of my knowledge, Rave and Sipay are payment gateways/aggregators 
which enable companies to accept payments. So, in a similar sense, the requested 
service was provided by these merchants.
It doesnt appear that HSBC presented a chargeback for any of these transactions. 
And given what Ive found above, I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
presenting a chargeback. I understand Ms C says that HSBC has previously presented a chargeback for transactions relating to investment trading. But I havent 
seen evidence of this being the case. It might be that Ms C has previously received a 
refund for transactions of this nature. But it doesnt necessarily follow that the refund 
stems from a chargeback. For example, it may be that HSBC concluded the 
transaction wasnt authorised by Ms C, or that it considered it was liable for the loss.
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
the money Ms C sent, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened 
before allowing any them to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent bank to potential fraud or financial crime, it might 
be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Ms C using her legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which she is liable 
unless theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect her, and that this would have made a difference to her decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice, and what I consider good industry practice at the time. HSBC ought to have 
been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, 
in some situations, make additional checks before processing payments, or declined 
them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Here, there were no regulator warnings in place about the three merchants the 
payments went to. So, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have automatically flagged 
them based on the merchant name alone. When considering what payments should 
be considered significantly out of character, it is often a finely balanced matter. And 
banks have a difficult balance to strike between identifying transactions where there 
are indications of higher fraud risks and allowing customers to utilise their accounts 
with minimal unnecessary disruptions.
Ive considered whether the transactions in question were significantly out of 
character or unusual. Looking at the Ms Cs account activity in the year leading up to 
the first transaction in question, I dont consider the disputed transactions as being so 
uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered an alert on HSBCs systems. The 
amounts werent so unusual or suspicious for the account activity such that I think 
that HSBC ought to have intervened and asked questions before executing Ms Cs 
payment instructions.  
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. We havent heard from HSBC, so 
Ive assumed it has nothing further to add.
Ms C doesnt agree with my findings. She states:she didnt authorise the payments and they were all taken out of her account without 
her consent.
the payments were made by somebody else using her legitimate security credentials.
she was living in a house with other people and someone else must have gained 
control of her bank account details as she lost her phone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms C for her comments which Ive carefully considered. She now says that she didnt 
authorise the payments in question. But this isnt what she has previously told us. Ive 
listened back to the call our investigator had with Ms C in January 2022 where she is heard 
saying that she gave money to the traders on the promise of making money. But she 
wasnt guided or given training as promised. 
I appreciate that there has been some confusion about different disputed transactions, but 
Im satisfied that Ms Cs comments about giving money to traders were in relation to the 
transactions listed above  this fact was established by the investigator before Ms C went on 
to provide additional information. 
So, it remains the case Im satisfied that the transactions in dispute were authorised by 
Ms C. It follows that my outcome, as set out in my provisional decision, remains unchanged. 
I dont think HSBC ought to have prevented these authorised payments from being sent, and 
I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a chargeback. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Ms C, not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But I can only fairly make an award if I think HSBC 
caused, or contributed to, her loss. In this case, I think that its the cruel actions of the 
scammers that caused the loss. So, I wont be telling the bank to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman