DRN-2929455
The complaint
Mr C complains about the price BUPA Insurance Limited has charged him for his group 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was a member of his employers group private medical insurance policy. Following his 
retirement, Mr C transferred into a retired employee scheme in April 2015. Mr Cs original 
monthly premium was £171.50 per month. At every subsequent renewal in December of 
each year, Mr Cs monthly premium has increased. Ive listed the relevant monthly premiums 
below:
2015-16 renewal:  £178.09
2016-17 renewal:  £199.18
2017-18 renewal:  £243.58
2018-19 renewal:  £281.95
2019-20 renewal:  £326.59
2020-21 renewal:  £371.85
Mr C was unhappy with the increases in his monthly premiums since 2015 and he asked 
BUPA to check whether the prices were right. He made complaints about the premiums in 
2017, 2019 and in 2020.
BUPA looked into Mr Cs concerns. It gave him breakdowns to explain the reasons for the 
increases. It said the price was right. It did ultimately provide Mr C with two months free 
cover for his 2020-21 policy.
But Mr C was still unhappy with BUPAs explanations. So he asked us to investigate his 
complaint. He was particularly unhappy as he felt he was effectively locked-in to having a 
policy with BUPA. Thats because if he looked elsewhere for cover, other insurers were likely 
to exclude his existing medical conditions.
Our investigator thought BUPAs evidence showed it had treated Mr C fairly when it worked 
out his premiums. So he didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C disagreed and Ive summarised his response to the investigator. He acknowledged that 
some of the premium rises had been down to a reduction in his group scheme discount and 
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) increases. But he said he remained concerned that BUPA 
were systematically and punitively increasing the price each year and exploiting the fact that 
hed been effectively locked-in. He felt the ultimate outcome in such a market-based 
restriction was discriminatory against those with existing medical conditions. And he didnt 
think that either the investigator or BUPA had adequately explained or justified the annual 
increases in premium.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I should explain that Mr Cs first complaint 
about the 2017-18 premium increase was addressed by BUPAs final response letter of 19 
February 2018. However, BUPA has given its consent to me considering Mr Cs whole 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. 
Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr C that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint, 
Ive considered all hes said and sent us. In making my decision though, I havent 
commented on each point hes made and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues.
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mr Cs. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk. 
BUPAs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, Mr Cs health). And if it does, what price it needs to charge for that. So BUPA 
will have assessed the risk of Mr C needing to make a claim when he first transferred into 
the group scheme and then at each yearly renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone 
up (for example, because claims have been made or because health care costs have gone 
up), then it may need to put up the premium. So in complaints like these, what I look at are 
the factors the insurer has applied to calculate the premium and whether its done so fairly. 
This is so that I can be satisfied that Mr C has been treated in the same way as any other 
BUPA customer in similar circumstances and hasnt been singled out. 
Mr Cs renewal premiums have increased year-on-year since the policy began in 2015. So I 
can understand why hes worried that BUPA hasnt treated him reasonably. BUPAs given us 
the calculations to show how its worked out Mr Cs premiums. Ive looked carefully at these 
and I do think its calculated Mr Cs annual premiums since the start of the policy fairly. Im 
sorry that I cant share all of the evidence Mr C wants to see from BUPA, setting out the 
exact things its taken into account when its calculated the price. And I do appreciate why he 
may think seeing it would reassure him that BUPAs acted fairly. But this information is 
commercially sensitive to BUPAs business and so its confidential. 
But what I can tell Mr C are the main reasons why his premiums have increased each year 
since 2015. These were mainly due to overall scheme increases; increases in IPT; together 
with a loss in the group scheme discount, as well as BUPAs ability to pay future claims 
based on the rising costs of treatment and the availability of new treatments. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied BUPAs treated Mr C in the same way it would any other policyholder 
in similar circumstances to his own. So I cant reasonably say its treated him unfairly. 
I can see from BUPAs records that its previously explained to Mr C that it can explore other 
policy options at renewal should he wish to look into reducing the price. I can appreciate why 
he may not wish to do so, given the potential impact on ongoing cover for any medical 
conditions he already has. And that this is also the reason why he feels locked-in to his 
BUPA policy and is concerned about seeking alternative cover from a different insurer. I do 
sympathise with Mr Cs position. 
But ultimately, Mr C has a free choice whether or not to keep the policy and whether he 
wishes to take up the new contract offer at each renewal. And Im satisfied BUPA has made 
Mr C aware that he may be able to get private medical cover cheaper through another policy 
with it. This means I dont think its done anything wrong.Overall, I dont find that BUPA has calculated Mr Cs premiums unfairly. So Im not telling it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman