DRN-3801736
The complaint
Miss D and Mr R have complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly declined a claim 
they made under their Premier Guarantee New Home Warranty.
What happened
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  acting as 
representatives or agents of either Miss D and Mr R or SOL. But for ease of reference, Ill 
only refer to Miss D and Mr R and SOL in this decision  even when referring to the actions 
or arguments of their representatives.
The subject of this complaint is a high-rise building comprised of several flats. Water 
damage has been caused to Miss D and Mr Rs flat due to a potential defect or defects with 
their lounge window.
Miss D and Mr R first raised their claim in 2014. At this stage, it was agreed their complaint 
would be placed on hold while issues involving common parts of their development were 
considered by SOL, and later the court.
In 2020, a court judgement was issued, deciding that two common parts claims were statute 
barred under the Limitations Act 1980. Following this, Miss D and Mr R sought to get their 
claim for damage to their flat considered by SOL. 
SOL declined Miss D and Mr Rs claim for two reasons. Firstly, it said that the court had 
decided the claim was statute barred. And secondly, it said that even if the judgement didnt 
apply to their claim for damage to their flat, there were four possible causes of damage and 
so four minimum claim values (MCVs) would apply. SOL said it was unlikely the cost of 
repairs to their flat would exceed this minimum claim value and so it wouldnt be responsible 
for covering the claim.
One of our investigators considered Miss D and Mr Rs complaint and thought SOLs 
decision was unfair. She said she was persuaded that the cause of water ingress was most 
likely Miss D and Mr Rs window rather than the roof or atrium issues which were the subject 
of the court judgement. So, she didnt agree that the issue central to this complaint had been 
statute barred by the courts. 
Our investigator said the cause of water ingress hadnt yet been established as SOL hadnt 
carried out any investigations. She acknowledged that Miss D and Mr Rs surveyor had 
highlighted four possible issues with the window and/or frame. But she said it wouldnt be fair 
to consider each individual defective component of the window as a separately identifiable 
cause. She said a fairer interpretation would be to consider the defective window as the 
cause of loss, and so to apply one MCV not four. 
Our investigator recommended SOL should carry out investigations to establish the cause of 
water ingress, and that any MCV should be applied in line with her view. She also 
recommended SOL should pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused Miss D and Mr R in not investigating and identifying the cause of water ingress 
sooner.
SOL didnt agree with our investigator. It said the defect in this case was in a common part 
and the judge had deemed that the common parts claim was statute barred. So, SOL argued 
that the same logic would apply to their claim. SOL went on to say that even if it accepted 
that this claim was separate to the judgement, a new common parts claim would need to be 
brought by all the leaseholders of the building and that an MCV would apply for each 
leaseholder. SOL also said that separately identifiable causes is based on advice from 
consultant engineers and that it couldnt agree with our investigators opinion that it would be 
fair to consider the issue here to be a defective window when the separate causes within the 
window are identifiable.
Our investigator responded to SOL to address its points. She said it wouldnt be a fair 
interpretation of the policy terms to suggest that any claim must be considered a common 
parts claim and subject to a common parts MCV. She said the policy covers damage, not the 
defect and so a claim for damage to one flat should only attract one MCV.
 
SOL didnt accept our investigators findings. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why in 
more detail below, addressing each issue separately and starting with an explanation of the 
cover provided under the new home warranty. 
What the warranty covers
Miss D and Mr Rs warranty is split into various sections of cover. Section 3.3 
Structural Insurance is the relevant section to Miss D and Mr Rs claim and complaint. This 
section states:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and 
notified to the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1. The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit 
which has been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the 
Underwriter does not exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit 
to its original specification.
2. .
3. The reasonable costs incurred in repairing, replacing or rectifying any part of the 
Waterproof Envelope within each Housing Unit which was newly constructed by 
the Developer as a result of ingress of water caused by a defect in the design, 
workmanship, materials or components of the waterproofing elements of the 
Waterproof Envelope of each Housing Unit
4. The warranty defines Housing Unit and Major Damage as:
Housing Unit
The property described in the Final Certificate comprising;
the Structure;
all non-load bearing elements and fixtures and fittings for which the Policyholder 
is responsible;
any Common Parts, retaining or boundary walls forming part or providing support 
to the Structure.
Major Damage
 
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a 
Certificate of Approval has been received by the Underwriter.
b)  a condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of 
or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of 
Approval has been received by the Underwriter. 
In either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components 
of the Structure which is first discovered during the Structural Insurance Period.
The warranty defines Common Parts as:
Those parts of a multi-ownership building (of which each Housing Unit is part), for a 
common or general use, for which the Policyholder has joint ownership and/or legal 
responsibility.
And the financial limits for claims involving common parts are further explained:
The maximum the Underwriter will pay for any claim relating to Common Parts will 
be the amount that the Policyholder has a legal liability to contribute toward the cost 
of repairs, rectification or rebuilding works. Claims are subject to financial limits for 
the individual sections detailed above and the Minimum Claim Value and/or Excess 
as detailed in the Initial and Final Certificates.
Structure and Waterproof Envelope are defined as:
Structure
The following elements shall comprise the Structure of a Housing Unit:
 
 foundations; 
 load-bearing parts of floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls and 
roofs, together with load-bearing retaining walls necessary for stability; 
 roof covering; 
 any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-
tightness of the external envelope; 
 floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads; Waterproof envelope
Waterproof Envelope shall mean the ground floors, external walls, roofs, skylights, 
windows and doors of a Housing Unit but excluding those parts below ground floor 
level."
And finally, Minimum Claim Value is defined as:
Minimum Claim Value
The amount relating to each and every loss in respect of each Housing Unit below 
which the Underwriter has no liability under this Policy. If the loss is greater than the 
Minimum Claim Value the underwriter will be responsible for the full amount of the 
Policyholders claim covered by this policy.
A separate Minimum Claim Value shall apply to each separately identifiable cause of 
loss or damage for which a claim is made under the Policy.
What all of the above means in practice is that Miss D and Mr Rs warranty covers them for 
damage to their home, or their proportion of any common parts theyre responsible for, 
caused by a defect in the structure of the building or the waterproof envelope. Cover is 
subject to the cost of repairs exceeding the minimum claim value (MCV). And a separate 
MCV can be applied for each separate cause of loss or damage, and/or for each 
leaseholder/policyholder who shares responsibility for the common parts  in the event of a 
common parts claim.
Its important to note that the warranty does not define what is meant by separately 
identifiable cause of loss or damage. Its also important to note that, to date, no definitive 
cause(s) of the water ingress to Miss D and Mr Rs flat has been identified. Ill come to this 
again in a later subsection.
What I need to decide, in this case, is whether or not Miss D and Mr Rs claim can 
reasonably be considered a common parts claim, and how the MCV can reasonably be 
applied in regard to the cause(s) of loss. But first, as SOL has raised concerns that 
Miss D and Mr Rs claim is, or ought to be considered, statute barred, Ill start with that point.
Is the claim statute barred?
SOL has pointed to a court judgement from 2020 which decided that two claims for damage 
to the common parts of Miss D and Mr Rs building were time barred under Section 5 of the 
Limitations Act 1980. SOL has argued that Miss D and Mr Rs claim is an extension of the 
time barred claims and so should also be considered statute barred. 
Ive carefully considered the content of the court judgement alongside the available technical 
evidence in this case. Having done so, I dont agree with SOLs position here. Ill explain 
why.
The judgement clearly explains the defects the judge considered and determined were time-
barred. The judge referred to these defects as the atrium defect and the roof parapet and 
external wall defect. Miss D and Mr R have explained that their development is made up of several buildings. 
Their particular building doesnt have an atrium, so clearly the atrium defect is nothing to do 
with the water ingress to their flat. Theyve explained that the roof parapet and external wall 
defect did affect their building. However, theyve highlighted that their flat is four floors below 
the roof and none of the flats between them and the roof are showing any signs of water 
ingress.
Further to the above, Miss D and Mr R have supplied a report from a surveyor who 
inspected their property and concluded:
Whilst there has been some minor damp staining near to the head of the window, 
there is no staining evident within the ceiling, or reveal, to suggest that damp is 
emanating from above. Indeed, at this lower level of the building, I would not expect 
any damp to manifest itself from above and even less so, where substantial roof work 
has been undertaken previously.
As you will appreciate, determining the cause of damp can be particularly difficult and 
is often a trial and error scenario but, it is my best assessment at this time that the 
damp penetration Is occurring, either through the window, or the surround. We have 
previously found on the other brick block that the sill detailing to the windows is poor 
and there has been some deterioration in mastic sealant to the surround of windows. 
Both of these aspects could be a contributing factor to the damp. There is a 
possibility that the window itself has poor drainage, or design deficiencies, which 
could be contributing to the damp but this appears less likely based upon previous 
assessments and the extent of damp. A need to ultimately replace the window 
cannot be completely ruled out but, in the first instance, repair to the sill detail and 
mastic surround would seem most appropriate, followed by a period of monitoring. Of 
course, if the cost of replacement is not too dissimilar to that of repair, particularly 
with access being a large part of the cost, then replacement might in fact be 
considered a sensible option.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the damage to Miss D and Mr Rs flat is 
most likely unrelated to the roof parapet and external wall defect. It therefore follows that I 
disagree their claim for water damage to their flat has been statute barred by the courts.
Ive also seen that Miss D and Mr Rs claim was made within the Structural Insurance 
Period and so it hasnt been raised outside of the applicable timescales within the warranty 
terms.
Is this a common parts claim?
This wasnt initially one of the reasons SOL sought to rely on to decline Miss D and Mr Rs 
claim. But in response to our investigators assessment, SOL said that because the defect(s) 
likely causing damage are in a common part (the window) that an MCV would apply for each 
policyholder/leaseholder who shares a legal liability or responsibility for sharing the cost of 
repair.
SOL explained its view that in circumstances where a policyholders lease describes their 
demise as internal plasterwork etc, that there will be no such thing as a standalone demised 
claim because the proximate cause will always emanate from a defect in the common parts.Ive thought about SOLs points here, but I dont agree with its interpretation of the cover 
provided by the warranty. I say this because the section of the warranty which applies covers 
 physical damage  caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or 
components of the Structure. The policy is covering the damage caused by the defect, not 
the defect itself. Therefore, its the location of the damage that determines the type of claim 
being made, not the location of the defect.
The damage reported as part of Miss D and Mr Rs claim is damp and water ingress into 
their individual flat. No damage, as a result of issues with Miss D and Mr Rs window, has 
been reported to any of the common parts. Therefore, as the damage is in Miss D and 
Mr Rs flat (demise) I consider that their claim is a demised claim and not a common parts 
claim  regardless of the fact the defect is, most likely, in a common part.
It follows that I dont think SOL can reasonably consider Miss D and Mr Rs claim to be a 
common parts claim and so it cannot apply one MCV per leaseholder.
SOL has further argued that as lessees, Miss D and Mr R share responsibility for repairs to 
the external structure of the building. It says unless it would only be providing indemnity for 
their demise in isolation, which it wouldnt be if we expected it to remedy the defect as well 
as repair the damage, then this claim would be twofold  a demised claim for the water 
damage and a common parts claim for the defect.
Again, Ive thought carefully about SOLs argument here. But again, I disagree with its 
interpretation of cover under the warranty  and for the same reasons. 
The warranty covers the damage caused by the defect  not the defect itself. So, if 
Miss D and Mr Rs flat has suffered major damage  as defined  then they are covered for 
the cost of repairing said damage. However, its widely accepted good industry practice (and 
a well-defined approach of this service) that any repairs carried out (or funded) under a 
contract of insurance should be lasting and effective. 
In this case, repairing the damage, in isolation, would not deliver a lasting and effective 
repair as the water ingress would simply reoccur. In order to deliver a lasting and effective 
repair, SOL will need to remedy the defect (or cover the cost of doing so). But it need only do 
this, in order to deliver the cover provided by Miss D and Mr Rs individual warranty, which is 
to provide a repair of the damage, to their demise, which is lasting and effective. 
So, as the warranty covers the damage, not the defect, I remain of the view that Miss D and 
Mr Rs claim is a demised claim and therefore SOL cannot fairly apply a common parts 
MCV.
How should the MCV be applied?
SOL has argued that because Miss D and Mr Rs surveyors report identified four separate 
causes of loss, that four MCVs would apply. This is based on the term quoted above which 
states, A separate Minimum Claim Value shall apply to each separately identifiable cause 
of loss or damage for which a claim is made under the Policy. SOL says the cost of repairs 
to Miss D and Mr Rs flat are unlikely to exceed the four MCVs.
Firstly, I should make it clear that Miss D and Mr Rs surveyor didnt make any concrete 
findings regarding the cause of damage. Only that the damage was more likely as a result of 
issues with the window than with the roof. So, I consider it wholly unreasonable for SOL to 
apply four MCVs based on potential causes of loss rather than actually identified causes of 
loss.Secondly, the hypothetical causes of water ingress put forward by the surveyor all relate to 
the window and/or window frame/surround. And, as mentioned previously, the warranty 
doesnt provide a specific definition for cause of loss. So, I would consider it an unfair and 
unreasonable application of the warranty terms for SOL to apply four separate MCVs in 
circumstances where there appears to be a single type of loss or damage (water ingress) as 
a result of a defect in a single portion of the home (the window).
The main purpose of the policy is to protect the policyholder against significant repair costs 
due to construction issues. As such, it cant reasonably be the intention of the policy to avoid 
cover (by applying multiple MCVs) simply because there are several construction issues in a 
single portion of the building (the window) which are causing a single type of damage (water 
ingress). To consider the individual materials or components making up a recognised portion 
of the building to be separately identifiable items or causes of damage would deliver an 
unfair outcome, because to do so nullifies the value of the policy at a time when its most 
needed by the policyholders, and at a time when they ought reasonably to be able to rely on 
it. 
Instead, where there are multiple defective components to one recognised portion of the 
building, such as the window, I think it would be reasonable for SOL to consider the window 
as one separately identifiable cause of loss, and therefore to apply one MCV.
What SOL must do
I think Miss D and Mr R have provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate that they have a 
valid claim under section 3.3 of their warranty. Theyve also demonstrated, on balance, that 
the damage to their flat has been caused by a defect or defects with the window. So, in order 
to fairly resolve their claim and complaint, I think SOL now needs to investigate the water 
ingress to establish an actual cause, or causes, of damage before deciding how to settle the 
claim in line with the warranty terms.
However, as explained above, SOL cannot reasonably consider individual defective 
components of a single portion of the building to be a separate cause of loss or damage. So, 
if its investigations establish that, for example, the four potential causes of water ingress in 
the surveyors report all exist and are causing the damage  it can only apply one MCV for 
the defective window. However, if SOL establishes that there are separate defects, present 
in separate portions of the building and causing the damage to the flat, such as the window 
and, for example, external cladding  then it would likely be reasonable for it to apply two 
MCVs. But, at this stage, the first step is to establish the cause(s) of loss.
In addition to the above, I think its clear that SOLs incorrect repudiation of the claim has 
resulted in Miss D and Mr R suffering from distress and inconvenience over and above that 
which would be reasonably expected as a result of a claim of this nature. So, in order to 
fairly compensate them for the impact of SOLs errors, I think SOL should pay 
Miss D and Mr R £350.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss D and Mr Rs complaint.
Society of Lloyds must:
Investigate and establish the cause(s) of loss at Miss D and Mr Rs flat.
Consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the warranty, 
applying what Ive said in this final decision about the application of the MCV in 
respect of demised or common parts claims, and the number of causes.
 
Pay Miss D and Mr R £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman