DRN-2035993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them payment protection
insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out PPI in 1992 to protect their existing mortgage repayments and a 
secured loan they were applying for at the time. The sale took place in a meeting. The 
policies were in Mr Hs sole name and protected him against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional  and they had to
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs H say they were very anxious to secure their mortgage and 
didnt feel they could do anything that might jeopardise their application. They say they felt 
concerned when YBS sought to sell them PPI, and it should have reassured them they didnt 
have to take PPI. 
I cant know what was discussed during the meeting, but I have considered Mr and Mrs Hs 
comments carefully and Ive looked at the paperwork thats available. I dont doubt Mr and 
Mrs H have given us their honest recollections of how they felt, but I also have to consider 
how long ago it was and how that might impact what they recall. 
From the available paperwork and bank records, I can see Mr and Mrs H received their 
mortgage offer in July 1991 and their mortgage completed in October 1991. At this stage 
they didnt take out PPI. 
It was when they later applied for a secured loan in February 1992 and opted to protect that 
with PPI (completing a separate application form to apply for it) that, based on YBSs 
records, it seems they also decided to protect their main mortgage. So I think they would 
have known PPI was a separate optional, product and not something they had to have to get 
their mortgage - which had already completed some months prior.
On balance, I think its most likely YBS made it clear the PPI was optional for both the 
mortgage and the loan and Mr and Mrs H agreed to take it out. I can understand they may 
not remember this given how long ago the meeting was.
YBS didnt recommend the policies to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check the policies 
were right for them. Rather, it had to give them enough information so they could decide for 
themselves whether they wanted to buy PPI.
Its possible the information the society gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policies if they
had received better information. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policies given his circumstances at the time and the terms 
and conditions.
He wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the main benefits, such as those 
affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the exclusions and limitations.
Mr H was entitled to six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Mr and Mrs H had borrowed a large sum of money over a long time secured against 
their home. Given the serious consequences of missing repayments of their 
mortgage or secured loan, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if 
Mr H was sick or lost his job. 
I dont know when the costs were first made clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. So I think its unlikely they wouldve made a 
different decision if better information about the costs had been provided.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs H were mis-sold PPI.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman