DRN-2587478
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his bank account and wont return 
money to him. He also complains that the bank placed a fraud marker against his name 
causing serious repercussions for him.
What happened
Mr G had a current account and a savings account with Barclays.
On 17 May 2019 £3,200 was paid into Mr Gs current account. Mr G immediately transferred 
£2,000 into his savings account, withdrew some of the cash and made several card 
payments.
On 28 May 2019, Barclays received notification for another bank that the £3,200 Mr G had 
received into his account was fraudulent.  Barclays asked Mr G about the funds and asked 
him for proof of entitlement to the £3,200. Mr G told the bank that hed sold some alloy 
wheels and provided a screen shot of the account of the person whod bought the wheels. 
Mr G explained that the person who bought the wheels had visited his home address and 
transferred the money on his doorstep. And then left with the wheels. Mr G said he hadnt 
had any further contact with the buyer. 
Barclays werent happy with Mr Gs explanation. So, on 6 June 2019, the bank closed Mr Gs 
account and returned the remaining money back to the sending bank. And placed a fraud 
marker against Mr Gs name with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System.  
Mr G complained to the bank. He said he hadnt done anything wrong and was now out of 
pocket and without his goods. He said the marker was causing him a great deal of trouble 
and upset because it was making it difficult for him to open another bank account. Barclays 
said it hadnt done anything wrong. In summary, Barclays said theyd followed the terms and 
conditions of the account. And said theyd fairly loaded him to the National Fraud Database. 
Unhappy with this response Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. He asked Mr G for more information 
about the sale of the alloys. But Mr G didnt provide anything. Barclays also told the 
investigator that theyd received an indemnity for the return of the remaining fraudulent 
funds. After reviewing all the information, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He 
thought the bank had acted fairly in returning the money and recording the marker. Mr G 
disagreed. He wants the bank to remove the marker and give him back the money which 
was paid into his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Gs accounts. Mr G has 
pointed out that he has been a loyal customer of Barclays for many years and that the 
closure of his accounts has caused him a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that whats 
happened has caused Mr G trouble and upset. But its generally for banks to decide whether 
or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Gs accounts. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed Mr Gs 
account without notice. For Barclays to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
release of funds
Ive thought about whether Barclays acted fairly in not releasing the remaining funds to Mr G 
and returning them to source. Ive looked at the information Mr G has provided and what 
hes said about the £3,200. Barclays asked Mr G what the £3,200 was for and he told the 
bank hed sold some alloy wheels to a man. Barclays asked for proof of this and Mr G 
provided a picture of a screen shot of a bank account showing a transaction for £3,200 with 
the reference buying goods. On contacting our service Mr G was asked for evidence 
surrounding the sale he says he made including any advert for the alloy wheels, his 
ownership of the alloys which he says he sold, and any correspondence hed had with the 
buyer leading up to the sale. But Mr G said hed provided all he could and that he hadnt had 
any further contact with the buyer. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr G, but Im satisfied that hes been provided with a 
number of opportunities both by the bank and this service to demonstrate his entitlement to 
the outstanding funds. Having looked at the information Mr G has provided, and in the 
absence of further information, Im not satisfied that this shows Mr G is entitled to the money 
which was paid into his account. So, Im unable to conclude that Barclays has acted unfairly 
in returning the money to source.
fraud marker
Ive next moved on to consider the loading of the CIFAS marker. 
The marker that Barclays have filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of a 
fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere 
suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Gs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
So, I need to consider whether Barclays have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of 
proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with CIFAS. Having looked at all the 
information provided, Im satisfied they have, and I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from Barclays showing that another bank notified them that the 
money paid into Mr Gs account on 17 May 2019 was fraudulent.  
Mr Gs explained hed sold alloy wheels he owned to a man who collected them from 
his home address. And transferred the money on his doorstep. Hes said he had no 
idea the money he was paid was fraudulent and hes now out of pocket and without 
his goods. Ive seen copies of  the screen shot Mr Gs provided of the persons 
account he says bought the wheels. But I find it surprising that Mr G hasnt been able 
to provide any evidence of how the sale came about  such as an advert, any 
messages between him and the buyer, any photographs of the wheels, or that he 
actually owned a set of alloy wheels to sell, such as an invoice showing how and 
where he came into possession of them. The screen shot also doesnt make any 
reference to alloy wheels. So, Im not satisfied that Mr G was an unwitting 
beneficiary of fraudulent funds as hes suggested.
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr G contacted or attempted to contact the 
person he says bought the wheels  I think this wouldve been a reasonable course 
of action to take especially if as Mr G has said he was owed money as he wouldve 
been out of pocket. And was also without his goods which he says hed sold in good 
faith.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that at the time the bank loaded the CIFAS 
marker they met the burden of proof required. In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the 
evidence provided by Barclays along with Mr Gs explanation. In doing so Im  satisfied that 
Mr G was complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. And Barclays acted fairly in loading the 
marker. So, I wont be asking the bank to remove it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman