DRN-4028172
The complaint
Mr H complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made for lost rings on 
a contents insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think Ageas had 
shown how it had been prejudiced by the endorsements on the policy not being met. Having 
read the file, I agree with this conclusion for the following reasons:
There have been no concerns raised by Ageas about the items being reported as 
lost, so Im satisfied this is a valid claim. 
The wedding ring is covered under the unspecified items limit for loss, and therefore 
the claim for this ring should be met in full. 
In respect of the engagement ring, I agree there has been a technical breach of the 
policy endorsements as Mr H didnt provide Ageas with a valuation for the 
engagement ring within 30 days of the policy starting and that valuation was over 
three years old. The ring also hadnt been inspected within the last three years. 
I think it is fair and reasonable to consider how Ageass position has been prejudiced 
by these endorsements not being met. However, Ageas has not explained how it has 
been prejudiced. 
Mr H does have proof of purchase and a later valuation for the engagement ring, and 
these could have been produced to Ageas at the start of the policy. Given this was 
the case, I cant see how Ageas position was prejudiced by them not being produced 
as they would simply have endorsed the item as described and the value placed on 
them. Of which, there has been no dispute. 
Mr H has been able to provide photos of the rings shortly before the loss, and they 
look to be in good condition. So, Im persuaded that had the rings of been inspected 
in the last three years, its more likely than not they would have simply endorsed the 
condition of the ring as evidenced in the more recent photographs. 
The last valuation of the engagement ring was over three years ago, it was a 
bespoke item that was made and previously inspected by the same jeweller. The 
value of precious stones has generally seen an increase over the last few years and 
therefore, I think it is more likely than not, if any valuation had of been carried out it 
would only have shown the ring to have increased in value. 
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Ageas should do the following. 
Subject to the applicable excess(s) being deducted:
- Settle the claim for the wedding ring in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
- Pay an equivalent amount to Mr H to replace the engagement ring as insured under 
the policy (£7,200) 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman