DRN-3202510
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how Hiscox Insurance have dealt with claims they made 
under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of the events which have led to this complaint. It does 
not therefore include a full timeline or list every point that has been made.
In March 2016, Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Hiscox for damage to their roof after they 
noticed water staining on a ceiling. Mr and Mrs S believed their neighbours were responsible 
for damaging their roof due to some construction work theyd previously had done. The work 
to repair the damage wasnt completed until the end of 2018. Mrs S is unhappy with the way 
the claim was handled, the time it took, that there was a delay in her being reimbursed the 
cost of repairs and the fact Hiscox chose not to recover the claim amount from the third 
party.
In November 2016, Mrs S noticed some cracking to her property. She made a claim to 
Hiscox for it to be repaired. Hiscox instructed a surveyor to provide a report on the cause of 
the damage. That report concluded the damage was due to normal movement. As no 
subsidence was evident, Hiscox explained to Mrs S the claim wouldnt be covered. Mrs S is 
unhappy Hiscox registered this claim as being a subsidence claim, when none was found.
In March 2017, contractors who were undertaking work to restore some flooring in the 
property caused damage to it. They also caused damage to different areas of the kitchen 
and utility area through spilling chemicals. An attempt was made by the contractor to clean 
the kitchen units however this only served to increase the damage further.
Mrs S made a claim to Hiscox. It explained the policy had an exclusion for damage caused 
by cleaning or restoration and as such, it wouldnt cover the damage to the floor. However, it 
said it would cover the damage to the kitchen and utility. It would then look to recover this 
cost from the third-party contractor.
Mrs S explained that her kitchen was made to her specific requirements and was from an 
exclusive kitchen supplier. It had a 25-year warranty and therefore any attempt by a third 
party to repair it, would invalidate the warranty. Mrs S was unwell during the course of the 
claim and asked for it to be put on hold. Hiscox tried to progress the claim via Mr S, however 
he was unfamiliar with the events surrounding it so progress on the claim stalled until Mrs S 
was well enough to continue.
Mrs S is unhappy that Hiscox continually insisted a test repair be carried out to try and 
remove some of the chemical residue. Shed obtained a report from the kitchen supplier 
which explained why due to the manufacturing processes it undertakes, a repair would not 
be possible.
Hiscox agreed in late 2019 that it would instruct the kitchen supplier to replace some of items 
damaged, in order to return Mrs Ss kitchen as far as possible to the way it was before.  
Some items Mrs S explained were now no longer manufactured and the supplier had no 
further stock to replace them with. So, in order to keep her warranty in place she had to keep 
some damaged items, such as the scratched kitchen worktop, in place. Due to the global 
pandemic, the kitchen supplier was delayed in completing the work. Mrs S is unhappy with 
the way in which the claim was handled by Hiscox and how long it took.
Mrs S raised several complaints with Hiscox during the above claims, she then brought 
those complaints to this service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint as a whole and thought it should be upheld in part. 
She explained that Hiscox was entitled to record the subsidence claim as it did and that she 
thought it had dealt with the roof claim as quickly as it could. However, she did think Hiscox 
hadnt properly taken into account the information Mrs S had supplied from the kitchen 
supplier about a repair not being possible. The investigator thought Hiscox should pay Mr 
and Mrs S £300 compensation to recognise the impact this delay had on them.
Neither Hiscox or Mrs S agreed with the investigators opinion.
Hiscox thought it had done all it could to progress the claims in the circumstances, it didnt 
think there were any avoidable delays on its part. It didnt agree compensation should be 
awarded.
Mrs S didnt think the amount of compensation that had been awarded was enough for the 
trouble and upset she was caused. She explained in detail the impact these claims had on 
her already fragile health.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
  
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings on 19 November 2021. I said I intended to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Having reviewed the file, Ive seen that Mrs S has made several complaints over the years 
about the claims and Hiscox has responded to those. Where a complaint is brought to this 
service more than six months after such a response, Im unable to consider the complaint if 
the business does not provide its consent for me to do so.
Hiscox issued a final response in August 2017 for the kitchen claim and in May 2018 for the 
roof claim. As such, Im unable to consider any events on those claims that happened before 
those dates. Ive considered Mrs Ss health issues and whether that prevented her from 
bringing the complaints to this service earlier than she did. While I think there may have 
been a slight delay, I do think there were opportunities for Mrs S or Mr S as a joint 
policyholder, to contact this service. As such, I conclude this service doesnt have the power 
to consider events that happened before the dates I have stated above. Therefore, any 
reference to them are for contextual purposes only, they wont form part of my consideration 
in this decision.
I want to assure Mrs S Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points she has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision. I dont underestimate how 
difficult Mrs S found these claims or the impact they had on her health; however, I will be 
restricting my comments to those points I feel are the most important to my decision. For 
ease, Ill provide my thoughts under the subheadings below:The roof claim
It isnt in dispute this claim took longer than usually would usually be expected to resolve. 
However, in order to award compensation here, I would need to be persuaded there were 
avoidable delays by Hiscox. Having reviewed everything, I dont think there were.
I realise Mrs S feels she had to manage the claim more than she would have expected to 
however I can see that at the start, she needed to engage trades people to demonstrate 
there was damage to the property which meant the insurance policy engaged. Before that 
point, it hadnt been proven an insurable event had taken place. I understand Mrs S also 
instructed a surveyor which she didnt expect to have to do. This isnt overly unusual as 
sometimes there are circumstances, such as in this case, where specific advice is required 
concerning legal obligations of the homeowner which arent strictly covered or are the 
responsibility of the insurer to find out. Hiscox offered to cover these costs which I think was 
reasonable.
Mrs S has said hasnt been reimbursed for the cost of the surveyor. Ive put this to Hiscox, 
and it has said it hasnt seen proof the amount has been paid by Mrs S. If she forwards this 
to it, payment will be arranged. Having reviewed the file, I cant see anything which suggests 
an invoice has been presented to Hiscox by Mrs S or the surveyor, so I dont intend to 
comment on this aspect further.
Mrs S has suggested Hiscox delayed in approving works to take place on the roof given she 
was told by the surveyor there was no reason they couldnt proceed. She believes Hiscox 
would have been informed at the same time. Having reviewed the file, I cant see this 
happened. Ive seen that Hiscox chased the surveyor in June 2018 for a report and offered 
to pay its invoice direct. I dont see why it would have done this if it had already received 
notification the works could now go ahead. The earliest I can see Hiscox were made aware 
was in August 2018, and the authorisation to proceed was given in September 2018. I dont 
think there was an avoidable delay on Hiscoxs behalf.
Mrs S has also said she paid the contractors to complete the work at the end of 2018 
however she wasnt reimbursed by Hiscox until 40 weeks later. While I can see costs were 
discussed with Hiscox, I cant see that Mrs S provided it with an invoice from the contractor 
or alternatively proof she had paid out the same amount until June 2019.
Mrs S is unhappy Hiscox chose not to recover its claim costs from the third party she 
deemed to be at fault for the damage. She has provided various reasons why she believes 
Hiscoxs actions prejudiced such recovery action being successful. The policy allows Hiscox 
to take over and deal with a claim as it sees fit. This includes whether it chooses to pursue
its losses from a third party.
It isnt my role to question this decision, as it is one for Hiscox to take alone. From reviewing 
the file however, I dont think that was an unreasonable decision. We wouldnt expect a 
privately paying individual to fund legal action where it more likely than not would be 
unsuccessful, so I wouldnt expect an insurer to do so either. I havent seen anything which 
persuades me the sole reason for the action not being pursued was due to negligence on 
behalf of Hiscoxs agents as Mrs S has alleged.
I understand Mrs S is unhappy the impact Hiscoxs decision not to recover costs, and this 
claim, had on her policy coverage going forward. This is something that is being considered 
under a separate reference at this service, so I wont comment further on this here.
The subsidence claimMrs S did make a claim for cracking to her property which would usually be considered 
under the subsidence section of the policy. While ultimately it was found no subsidence had 
occurred, I dont think the claim was recorded incorrectly as it used the correct policy 
categorisation. I dont think Hiscox has done anything wrong here.
The kitchen claim
As mentioned previously Im unable to consider anything that happened before August 2017 
in this decision. However, for background purposes I will recap the position of the claim to 
that date. Mrs S had told Hiscox about the guarantee supplied with the kitchen and provided 
information from the kitchen supplier but Hiscox had said it needed to arrange a contractor to 
visit the property to arrange a test clean before it could consider any alternative action.
Mrs S had been asked to provide further information about the guarantee for it to be 
considered.
Due to her ill health Mrs S arranged for the claim to be put on hold in December 2018. She 
was well enough to resume it in April 2019. At this point Hiscox reiterated its position that a 
test clean would be needed. Further discussions then took place between the parties and in 
November 2019 it was agreed that the kitchen supplier could complete some of the repairs.
Mrs S is unhappy that not all items that were damaged could be rectified, either because 
they were bespoke to her kitchen or because the supplier no longer had any items in stock. I 
realise this is frustrating, but it is not something that is within Hiscoxs control or is its 
responsibility to compensate for. As this claim is being dealt with and pursued against the 
third partys liability insurance, this loss is something that would have to be added to the 
claim against the third party. Similarly, the costs of rectifying the flooring, cleaning and re- 
decorating would also be losses that would need to be presented to the third-party insurer.
Mrs S would need to contact Hiscox to see if this is something that could be arranged to be 
added or alternatively it has been suggested she may have legal expenses coverage 
provided with her home insurance policy. She should be able to check this on her schedule 
and details of the insurer can be found in her policy document. She may be able to contact 
that insurer to see if it something they would be able to assist with separately.
Having reviewed the claim, I havent been provided with any information that indicates 
what changed between April 2019 when the claim resumed to November 2019 when it 
was decided the kitchen supplier should be instructed to rectify the damage. Arguably 
therefore, I think this is more likely than not, a decision that could have been reached 
earlier. While I understand normally a test clean would be performed, based on the 
information that was avoidable to Hiscox I think it was clear that wasnt a practical way 
forward in this particular case. I do therefore think there was an opportunity that was 
missed here to bring the claim to a conclusion earlier than what happened.
The delays in the work actually taking place were delayed for reasons outside of Hiscoxs 
and the kitchen suppliers control. So, I wont be making an award for the delay here.
Having reviewed everything, I do think some compensation is due to Mrs S for the delay in 
bringing the kitchen claim to a conclusion, as Ive set out in my reasoning above. Given the 
specific impact on Mrs S, I do think £300 is a reasonable amount. I say this as in cases such 
as this, I would usually award less than this amount, however I recognise it has had more of 
an impact on Mrs S for the reasons shes outlined.
That being said, I dont think a higher award than this is due. Mrs S has outlined her existing 
health issues and how hard she found these claims. However, I have to make a distinction between how stressful she may have found them usually in light of her health and if Hiscox 
has done anything wrong which exacerbated that impact. Having reviewed the file, Ive 
outlined my thoughts above on how the claim was handled where I think
the journey of the kitchen claim could have been reduced.
Responses to my provisional decision.  
Hiscox did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs S submitted a detailed response to my provisional decision in which she reiterated her 
previous points and evidence she had provided. She said she didnt think Hiscox should be 
able to object to her previous complaints being considered and she didnt think the 
compensation amount was sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has said she doesnt think Hiscox can object to her complaints being considered 
however, as I have explained, under our rules it is entitled to do so. Neither Mr nor Mrs S put 
forward any additional information about why the complaints were brought late, for me to 
consider. It is therefore my decision that this service does not have the power to consider the 
previous complaints Mr and Mrs S raised about their claims as they were brought to this 
service too late. Hiscox issued a final response in August 2017 for the kitchen claim and in 
May 2018 for the roof claim. As such, I will not be considering any events on those claims 
that happened before those dates
I can assure Mrs S that in my consideration of this complaint I did consider how the claims 
progressed after the dates above, including the impact of any further delays. I would like to 
reiterate that I have read and thought very carefully about everything Mr and Mrs S have 
said but I will concentrate my findings on those issues I feel are the most important to my 
decision. Much of what Mrs S has provided is a reiteration of what has gone before so I dont 
intend to address that again here, my provisional findings set out in detail my thoughts on 
the claims and what happened. There are however a few points Mrs S has made that I will 
mention here.  
In respect of the roof claim, Mrs S has said she believes the invoice was sent directly from 
the surveyor to Hiscox. While I have read the emails she has provided these do not confirm 
the invoice needed to be paid, it was put across more of notice of advance fees, so Im not 
persuaded I need to direct Hiscox to do that now or make an award for the delay in that 
happening. While I appreciate Mrs Ss thoughts on events that happened around the same 
time and why she believes this supports her view Hiscox did get the invoice and refused to 
pay it, Im not of the same opinion. Hiscox in any event have said it will review the invoice if 
presented with it. I can confirm this has now been sent to them.
I understand Mrs S is very disappointed Hiscox chose not to pursue a recovery from the third 
party. However, as I explained in my provisional findings the policy allows it to take over and 
deal with the claim as it sees fit. This is a standard insurance term and isnt something I will 
usually interfere with. And, for the same reasons I set out previously, I wont be interfering in 
that decision.
In respect of the kitchen claim, Mrs S has said she doesnt feel £300 compensation 
adequately reflects the detrimental impact the matter has had on her health. Mrs S has my 
sympathies, however as I explained in my provisional decision, I have to make a distinction between how stressful she may have found the claims usually in light of her health and if 
Hiscox has done anything wrong which exacerbated that impact. Having re reviewed the 
file, I dont intend to make a higher award.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hiscox should pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £300 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman