DRN-3149268
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint encompasses two issues relating to his trading account with Pello Capital 
Limited. He says, firstly, that in September 2018 he was misadvised to invest in an AIM-
listed stock, which carried too much risk. And, secondly, in April 2019 Pello allowed the 
balance of his account to be fraudulently withdrawn.
What happened
The AIM Investment
Pello didnt consider that this part of Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. It said that prior to 
him making the purchase, it wouldve explained that AIM shares were classified as high risk. 
Mr C wouldve accepted this, after which the purchase of the shares wouldve been carried 
out. Pello had categorised Mr Cs attitude to risk as Moderately Adventurous, which it felt 
the AIM investment was consistent with.
Our investigator considered the matter and reached a different conclusion. He said, in brief:
During the phone call in which the share purchase was discussed, some reference 
was made to the level of risk, but this was at the end of the call and in little detail.
Pello shouldve done more to alert Mr C that he would be investing a large amount of 
his current portfolio (around £4,800, so about one third) in this high-risk investment, 
which wasnt in line with his previously documented attitude to risk.
Pello hadnt supplied any evidence to show it made Mr C aware of the high-risk 
nature of the investment. 
Mr C defined his attitude to risk as medium on several documents. Pello had 
subsequently recorded him on a different scale as moderately adventurous, which 
wasnt consistent with his medium attitude. However, it had agreed later that a lower 
level of moderate on the new scale may have been a more accurate assessment.
Pello shouldve clearly told Mr C that the AIM shares werent in line with what it 
understood about his attitude to risk. Mr C was likely willing to take some risk with his 
money, but the level involved in this investment was too high and inconsistent with 
his circumstances. As such, the investment was not suitable for him. 
The investigator proposed that Pello pay compensation to Mr C based on a comparison of 
the performance of the AIM shares with our benchmark used for situations where were 
satisfied a consumer was happy to accept some degree of risk  the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. 
The Fraudulent Withdrawal
In April 2019 Pello received an email request for the urgent withdrawal of funds from Mr Cs 
account. It replied to confirm the amount available and how quickly payment could be made. 
Pello then received a further email confirming the request and providing new bank account 
details. Pello sold Mr Cs investments and asked for evidence to support the new bank 
details. A scan of a bank statement showing the new details was provided, following which 
Pello made two same-day payments to the bank account, totalling around £10,600. 
Sometime later, in December 2019, Pello contacted Mr C about making potential further 
investments through his account. He queried his balance, and it was at this point he became 
aware that the withdrawals had taken place, so he referred the matter to Action Fraud and 
also raised a complaint.
Although Pello was sympathetic to Mr Cs situation it felt it had acted in line with its terms 
and standard security processes when actioning the withdrawal requests, so it didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Our investigator also reached a different conclusion to Pello on this part of the complaint and 
thought it should also be upheld. His conclusions on the matter are summarised below:
Although Mr C wouldnt have suffered a loss but for the action of the fraudsters who 
issued the emails, businesses should nevertheless have measures in place to 
minimise the risk of such an event happening. 
Although Pello had broadly acted in accordance with its terms concerning the receipt 
of instructions to make payments, the terms also recognised that there may be 
circumstances in which its appropriate to require additional information in order to 
protect its customers.
Further, it was also important to consider relevant legislation, regulation and good 
industry practice to determine whether Pello ought to have done more in the 
circumstances, and whether doing so would likely have prevented Mr Cs loss.
On this point, the investigator referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys SYSC 
(Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls) Handbook, noting the 
expectation under SYSC 3.2.6, and its associated guidance, that:
oA firm must take reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems 
and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and standards 
under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime.
He also referenced the guidance set out within the British Standards Institution (BSI) 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of Practice, noting in particular, the principles that;  
ochanges to accounts be subject to checks to verify identity, 
oappropriate levels of authentication be in place to validate suspicious 
transactions, such as large payments or changes to personal details
omeasures be in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities, such as 
changes to the operation of an account or payment of a large amount. 
Taking the above into consideration there were two main factors of concern in Mr Cs 
case  the unusual use of email contact to arrange the withdrawals and the change 
in bank details at the same time. 
It wouldve been sensible to have a validation process in place that would likely have 
highlighted that the email service had been compromised. 
Pello hadnt provided details of its procedures and practices, so hed had to make 
some assumptions. 
Pellos actions in requesting a copy of a bank statement to support the change in 
bank details was in line with a typical process in such circumstances and the 
statement itself appeared genuine. However, the context in which the account 
changes were being made  in association with a full withdrawal  should reasonably 
have given rise to a suspicion that the transaction might not be genuine.   
Thered been no previous withdrawals from the account since it was opened in 2015 
and Mr C had rarely contacted Pello by email  the majority of contact being by 
phone. Given the guidance noted above, it was reasonable to conclude that Pello 
ought to have sought additional validation/verification of the transactions. Had such validation taken place its unlikely the withdrawals wouldve taken place. 
So, Pello should reconstruct Mr Cs account to the position it would be in if its error of 
not carrying out additional checks had never occurred.
Mr C accepted the investigators view in respect of both parts of the complaint. 
Pello offered no further comment, so the matter was referred to me to make a final 
determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIM Investment
Ive listened to the telephone call in which Mr C discussed the potential for buying the AIM 
stock with Pellos advisor. The discussion centred upon diversification and how Mr C was 
heavily committed in certain areas. The purchase of the AIM stock was funded by the sale of 
part of an existing holding in a FTSE 100 Banking stock and there was talk about how it 
might be possible to later restructure Mr Cs account by repurchasing into the Banking stock.
But nowhere during this conversation was a clear explanation given to Mr C that the sale 
and purchase would involve moving a large proportion of his portfolio into a high-risk 
environment. The adviser mentioned at the very end of the call that the stock being 
purchased was an AIM stock, which was higher risk, and that he, the adviser, was satisfied it 
was suitable for Mr C given his investment experience. But this information was given in 
such a brief, impersonal manner, separate to the main body of the conversation, that I would 
question whether Mr C actually heard it properly, let alone recognised its importance and 
potential consequences. 
I think had it been made clear to Mr C the level of risk his money was being placed at by 
investment in the AIM stock, he wouldnt have agreed to proceed. Pello has acknowledged 
that none of his previous trades had been at a level of risk above medium. Indeed, his 
attitude to risk had regularly been documented as medium on a three-point scale, described 
as equally concerned about limiting my losses, as I am about achieving returns. Given this, 
its difficult to see why the advisor wouldve concluded that Mr Cs investment experience 
was consistent with the AIM investment, and that it was therefore a suitable 
recommendation.
Pello later introduced a five-point scale on which Mr C was categorised as moderately 
adventurous, which was a 4. But it has accepted that this was probably not accurate and 
that he shouldve been a 3 on this new scale  still effectively a medium. 
So, in summary, I find Im not satisfied Mr C was made aware of the level of risk to which his 
money was being exposed and I think that had he been, he wouldnt have agreed to accept 
it. There is nothing in his previous investment experience to suggest he would, and neither 
was there anything in his discussion with the advisor that pointed to a change in his attitude 
or a desire to increase his risk. The suggestion that he move into the AIM stock was entirely 
that of the advisor.
The Fraudulent Withdrawal
Its clear Mr C was unfortunately the victim of a scam by persons who in some way hacked 
into his email service. His complaint against Pello is that it failed to take reasonable steps to prevent those persons from carrying out the scam.  And, having considered the matter 
carefully, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
A request for a full withdrawal from the account might not, in itself, have been sufficient to 
prompt Pello to take additional steps to verifying the authenticity of the request. Although, I 
think it wouldve been prudent for it to have noted that the request was coming via a route  
email  that Mr C didnt generally use when communicating, and that it was a request to do 
something that Mr C had never previously done. 
But when the request for a full withdrawal was combined with a request for a change in the 
payment destination, I think this created a set of circumstances under which its reasonable 
to expect Pello to have taken additional steps to verify the requests. Doing so would, in my 
view, have been a generally prudent step and further, wouldve been in line with the relevant 
industry guidance.
I accept that the new bank details werent accepted on face value  a copy of a bank 
statement was sought. But that said, what was provided was a scan, not an original, and 
therefore far easier to manipulate. 
I think there is an onus on businesses to have a system of checks and balances in place that 
act to minimise the risk of customers being impacted by financial wrongdoing. Pellos terms 
allowed for such checks to be in place and the relevant industry guidance certainly supports 
the case that they should be in place. Particularly in regard to the issue in question here  
the verification of identity where large payments or changes to details are involved.
It is up to a business to decide how best to interpret the available guidance and ensure the 
relevant requirements and responsibilities are met. So, there is an unavoidable element of 
subjectivity involved in assessing a complaint such as Mr Cs. But in all the circumstances I 
find it reasonable to conclude that the combination of factors in play with Mr Cs complaint  
a novel request, through an unusual channel, accompanied by a change in payment details 
 were such that Pello ought to have taken some form of additional steps to authenticate the 
requests, such as confirming with Mr C though a different channel  speaking with him to 
check the requests were genuine. 
Had Pello done so, it seems more likely that not that the withdrawals would not have taken 
place and Mr Cs account wouldve remained invested as it was in April 2019.
 
Putting things right
AIM Investment 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Pello do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Pello must:Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pello should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
AIM stock 
purchased 
in 
September 
2018still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to Pello taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Pello to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to Pello any amount he may receive from 
the investment in future. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
Fraudulent WithdrawalsPello must put Mr C back in the position he would now be in but for its error, returning his 
account back to its status as if the error had never occurred.
Im conscious that some time has passed since the withdrawals took place and Mr C 
discovered what had happened. And had the money not been withdrawn from the account in 
April and May 2019 its quite possible Mr C wouldve made changes to the investments in his 
account during the intervening period. 
However, theres now no way of determining what those changes might have been. So, I 
think the account should be restructured to the position it would be in had the investments 
sold in April 2019 remained in place with no further changes to the account since then. I 
accept this is quite a long period, but Mr Cs trading history shows that he was happy to keep 
some holdings in place for periods of a year to 18 months, so I think it represents a 
reasonable approximation of what his current position would be. 
Im aware there has since been a restructure of at least one of the holdings, and where thats 
the case Pellos should take it into account appropriately. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Pello 
Capital Limited to take the actions and pay compensation to Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman