DRN-2473506
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Santander UK Plc stopped a transaction and froze their 
account.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr T tried to make a transfer out of the account for £20,000. Due to security 
concerns Santander blocked the transaction and froze the account. Mr T spoke to Santander 
who explained that the account was frozen, and it might take up to 48 working hours for the 
transaction to be reviewed and for the freeze to be removed. Mr T was unhappy with this so 
went to a branch of Santander on the same day and, after some checks were done, the 
account freeze was removed. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to Santander about what happened. Santander explained the 
transaction was declined due to security concerns. Even though Mr T had confirmed the 
transaction as genuine it still had to be reviewed by the back office security team before the 
account freeze could be lifted. 
Remaining unhappy Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought Santander acted reasonably in 
blocking the payment and temporarily freezing the account. They explained that these 
checks are in place to prevent fraud and also noted that the issue was resolved on the same 
day so Mr and Mrs T werent without access to their account for long. 
Mr and Mrs T said they werent concerned about the transfer being stopped but asked what 
right Santander had to freeze the account. Our investigator acknowledged there was some 
inconvenience but didnt think Santander had made any errors. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so 
the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When implementing security or fraud policies theres always a chance that genuine 
transactions might be stopped which causes consumers to be put to some inconvenience. 
This is whats happened here. But that doesnt mean that Santander have acted incorrectly 
or made any mistakes. 
The transaction was for £20,000. It was being sent to a new account. And the reason for the 
transfer was recorded as being for investment. Whilst Im not privy to Santanders 
confidential security policy, I can see why a transaction like this might be flagged for checks. 
Mr and Mrs T say there had been a lot of large transactions from their account over the 
previous months for around the same amount so question why this payment was stopped 
and not the others. I cant say exactly why other transactions werent stopped but this one 
was. But what I can say is that things like stopping transactions are part of a security policy 
which is there to protect consumers funds.  
The account terms and conditions say a payment instruction can be refused if we reasonably 
suspect it relates to fraud. Looking at the circumstances of this transaction I think Santander 
did have reason to refuse the payment. This is especially the case with an increase in scams 
which Santander try their best to prevent. 
Mr and Mrs T ask why their account was frozen. Santander have explained that this is a 
normal part of their process, and its not for me to interfere with these processes. 
When speaking to Mr T Santander said it might take up to 48 working hours to review the 
issue. Mr T wanted access to his account so went to a branch that day where the account 
was unfrozen. Im glad to see that Mr T was able to fix the issue and get access to the 
account in a timely manner but going to the branch was of course an inconvenience. 
Mr T said that he wants an assurance that his account wont be frozen again, but neither 
myself nor Santander are in a position to give that assurance. Fraud and security policies 
under constant review so its possible that further transactions might be stopped and if that 
happens the account might be frozen. These policies are put in place to protect consumers 
funds and whilst there is occasionally some inconvenience, its less inconvenience than if the 
transaction wasnt genuine and it wasnt stopped. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly and 
reasonably when blocking the transaction and freezing the account. Thats not say that 
Mr and Mrs T didnt have some inconvenience; they did, but Santander was following their 
security policy which theyre free to set and is there to protect consumers and their funds.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman