DRN-1581708
The complaint
Mr L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plcs acquisition of another business has caused him 
to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
In 2019 Clydesdales parent company acquired a new business that was actively trading in 
the financial services industry. It wrote to account holders to tell them about the acquisition. 
This included information about the impact this had on the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) limits as both businesses would operate under the same licence. And it 
explained that any customers concerned about this would have a penalty free window to 
make alternative arrangements for their accounts if they wanted to do so.  
Mr L had accounts with Yorkshire Bank (Clydesdale) which is part of the Clydesdale group 
and the new business that was acquired. As the total balance of both Mr Ls accounts 
exceeded the FSCS limit, Mr L decided to move his Individual Savings Account (ISA) - which 
attracted a fixed rate of interest of 1.4%, from Clydesdale to a new provider. The interest rate 
applicable to the new account was 0.7%. 
As a result, Mr L says hes lost out through no fault of his own. He complained to Clydesdale 
saying that he had lost interest of £405.67 having had to move his account to another ISA 
provider. Clydesdale didnt uphold his complaint, so he referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt think Clydesdale had 
done anything wrong, and so she didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. In response, Mr L said 
Clydesdale had broken the terms and conditions of his ISA by withdrawing the protection 
offered via the FSCS. And he thought Clydesdale should cover his loss. He pointed out that, 
if he had broken the terms of the account, he would have been required to pay a penalty 
equal to 90 days interest. Therefore, he didnt accept the investigator's conclusion, and he 
asked for a second opinion on his complaint. 
So, in line with our two-stage process, Mr Ls complaint has come to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, our role is to resolve individual complaints. We are not 
regulators and do not determine the compensation limits under the FSCS. Nor is it for us to 
comment on Clydesdales acquisition of another business. This is a commercial decision 
made in line with the Financial and Services and Markets Act 2000 and was approved by a 
Court of Law.
 
 I note Mr L has acknowledged that legally Clydesdale hasnt done anything wrong. But hes 
concerned that our investigator may have only looked at the legal side of things. So Id like to 
reassure assure Mr L that - while we have regard for the law, we reach our conclusions on 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. This includes 
the evidence and testimony provided by both parties, any relevant terms and conditions, 
regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice.    
Ive looked at Clydesdales terms and conditions. But while these refer to the FSCS, this is 
only to provide a link to where account holders can find out information about the scheme. I 
cant see that they make a specific provision for the circumstances which happened here. So 
I dont think Clydesdale broke the terms and conditions of the account.
Clydesdale was obliged to pay Mr L the relevant interest on his account while the money 
was deposited with it. Clydesdale didnt end the agreement it had with Mr L, or suggest it 
would stop paying him the interest which was due had he decided to maintain the account 
with it. 
Rather Clydesdale recognised that some account holders may wish to move their accounts 
and it proposed what I think was essentially a variation of the contract allowing Mr L to move 
elsewhere if he felt he should without incurring a penalty. And I think this was a fair and 
reasonable proposal in the circumstances. 
From what Ive seen Mr L was free to choose to either keep his existing account (and 
continue to receive the agreed interest) or move elsewhere. While I fully understand why  Mr 
L made the decision he did, I dont agree that Mr L has lost out due to circumstances beyond 
his control. Mr L exercised his right to remove his money, and he did so in the knowledge 
that hed be getting a lower amount of interest then he would if he maintained his account 
with Clydesdale.
Therefore, taking everything into account  including the remit of this service, I agree with 
our investigator. I dont think Clydesdale has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking it to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman