DRN-2808490
The complaint
Ms A says TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms A took out a guarantor loan from TFS in June 2015. It was for £4,500 over 48 months.
The monthly repayment was £190.64 and the total repayable was £9151.20
Ms A says she was in severe debt when she applied, and the checks were not effective. This 
has caused her significant stress that has impacted her health. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFSs checks were
not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Ms A.  
TFS disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Ms A. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Ms A could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms A. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Ms A, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms As
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Ms A before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of her income, her monthly living costs and her existing credit commitments. It checked her 
declared income against a recent payslip. It checked her credit file to understand her credit 
history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was to repay family debt. From 
these checks combined TFS concluded Ms A had sufficient monthly disposable income for 
the loan to be affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Ms A was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from TFS. She was entering into a long-term commitment and
would need to make monthly repayments for four years. So I would expect that TFS would
want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Ms As financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Her credit score was low and categorised 
Ms A as being likely to have problems making repayments if more credit is given. So, in the 
round, I think it would have been proportionate for TFS to independently check the actual 
state of Ms As finances before agreeing the loan, rather than relying on her expenditure 
disclosures.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Ms As complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Ms A most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Ms As bank statements. This is one way TFS could have gathered the
information I think it needed on Ms As financial situation. Our adjudicator said from the 
statements it was clear Ms A didnt have enough disposable to afford the loan. He sent TFS 
a summary of Ms As credit commitments in the month prior to Ms As loan application. TFS 
asked for more information so it could understand the status of each loan to decide which 
loans should be considered in the affordability assessment. But I dont agree this is 
information it needs  this is about more than pounds and pence affordability. The 
statements show Ms A had nine active high-cost short-terms loan with repayments of around 
£850 in the month prior to her application and had borrowed almost a further £900 from such 
lenders in the same month. From this TFS ought to have realised Ms A was having problems 
managing her money, was in a cycle of borrowing to repay, and most likely wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan. And this was what TFS needed to check (not just the pounds 
and pence affordability) to meet its regulatory obligations as CONC 5.3.1(G) stated:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
So I think that if TFS had completed proportionate checks, it would have realised the loan
was most likely not sustainably affordable for Ms A. And as a responsible lender it would 
have decided not to approve her application.
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
 Its reasonable for Ms A to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had the
benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to her. So she has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Ms A made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms As loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Ms As loan account results in an outstanding capital balance TFS must 
try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms A, remembering its obligation to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she is having financial difficulties. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms As credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Ms A a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
 My final decision
I am upholding Ms As complaint. TFS Loans Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman