DRN-4130630
The complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd declined his chargeback claim and recorded adverse 
information on his credit file when the re-debiting of the disputed amount caused his account 
to go over his credit limit.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr A bought some headphones online and paid about £230 for them with 
his NewDay Aqua credit card. He says that when they arrived they were damaged, so he 
contacted the seller and asked to send them back for a refund. The seller agreed to that, but 
said that they could only accept the return of the item using a particular courier. Mr A did not 
agree to that, because the courier was at least three quarters of an hour away, and also 
because he had previously been dissatisfied with their service, and had sued them in court 
and won.
The seller insisted that there was no other way for Mr A to return the item, and Mr A would 
not back down. Mr A asked NewDay for a refund under the chargeback scheme. NewDay 
did that, and temporarily credited the payment to Mr As account while the claim was open. 
But the chargeback was unsuccessful because the headphones had not been returned, and 
so NewDay re-debited the payment from Mr As account. This resulted in the account 
balance exceeding the credit limit, and charges and interest were applied over the following 
three months.
Mr A complained, and NewDay refunded £24 of charges and about £35 of interest as a 
gesture of good will. But it did not uphold his complaint. It said that it had to follow the rules 
of the chargeback scheme, and the chargeback had failed because the rules required the 
purchased goods to be returned, and they had not been. Being dissatisfied with that 
response, Mr A brought this complaint to our service. He also complained about the sellers 
poor customer service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He explained that he could not consider any 
complaint about the seller or about the courier service, he only had power to consider a 
complaint about what NewDay had done. He said that the chargeback had been doomed to 
fail because the headphones had not been returned. He also considered whether NewDay 
might be liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a breach of contract by 
the seller. But he concluded that the seller had followed its terms and conditions and that no 
breach of contract had occurred. And he said that the adverse data NewDay had reported to 
the credit reference agencies was accurate. Mr A did not accept that opinion, and he asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not accept it, for broadly the same reasons as those my colleague 
gave.
When Mr A asked NewDay for a refund, NewDay did exactly what it was supposed to do. It 
promptly raised a chargeback dispute, on the sixth day following the purchase. It recredited 
Mr As account with the disputed amount, and warned him that this would be re-debited if the 
chargeback was unsuccessful. Of course it was unsuccessful, because the chargeback rules 
say that a purchase of damaged or defective goods can only be refunded if the goods are 
returned, and they were not. There is no chargeback reason which applies for insisting that 
the goods are returned in a particular way. So NewDay had no choice but to accept the 
sellers defence to the dispute, and to re-debit the money from Mr As account. Again, it 
warned him that this was going to happen.
It is unfortunate that the re-debit took Mr As account balance over the limit, but it was his 
responsibility to make sure that the limit was not exceeded. Therefore the fees and interest 
were properly charged. That point is almost moot, because NewDay refunded them as a 
gesture of good will. But it remains the case that the relevant data recorded on Mr As credit 
file is still accurate, and so I cannot tell NewDay to remove it.
I have also considered NewDays liability under section 75. The seller was in breach of its 
contract with Mr A if it sold him defective goods. But I think that allowing him to reject and 
return the goods for a full refund is a fair remedy for that. And there was no breach of 
contract in the seller insisting that the goods be returned in accordance with its returns 
policy, which formed part of the terms and conditions of that contract.
So for all of these reasons, I am satisfied that NewDay has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023. But this decision brings our involvement in this 
matter to an end, and so we will not comment about it any further.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman