DRN-3443487
The complaint
Miss E complains that Funding Circle Ltd failed to carry out enough due diligence to ensure 
a company she lent to was creditworthy. She says that, because of this, Funding Circle 
incorrectly allocated her a loan. 
 What happened
Miss E held a crowdfunding account on Funding Circles peer-to-peer lending platform. It 
was an automated account where loan parts were bought and sold on behalf of Miss E 
based on a set criteria  including risk profile. Miss Es account had a balanced risk profile  
meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk bands (A+ to E rated 
loans). 
Miss E was allocated a loan in a business I shall refer to as Company A in April 2018. This 
was in line with her balanced risk preference. Her total investment in the loan was around 
£100 and following the loan being defaulted in April 2019, she received around £30 in 
interest and recovery payments. 
Miss E complained to Funding Circle in July 2021. She said Funding Circle failed in the way 
it carried out due diligence on the borrower before allowing her to invest in the loan. 
Specifically, she said Funding Circle had failed to conduct sufficient due diligence and rate 
the risk correctly as well as not carrying out ongoing loan management in line with 
expectations. Because of this, she said Funding Circle shouldnt have allocated her the loan 
and that she had lost out financially. 
Funding Circle looked into Miss Es complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
It was made clear to Miss E that her capital would be at risk when investing through 
its platform.
It conducts stringent due diligence on all borrowers before offering a loan, however, 
unforeseen circumstances can occur, meaning that loans may experience financial 
difficulties.
It has a responsibility to always pursue the most effective course of action and act 
with investors best interests in mind.
Losses are a natural part of lending, but when this happens, Funding Circle 
ascertains the best viable route to obtain funds to repay the loan. 
It was confident that it had gone to great lengths to attempt the recovery of the 
outstanding debt, with the loan facility been vigorously managed internally and it had 
also sought independent external advice to validate and confer any decisions with
regards to pursuing the debts.
Following this, the best route of action was to sell the loan to a third party and Miss E 
had since received the final recovery payment minus the collections charge and any 
associated legal costs. 
Miss E didnt accept Funding Circles findings and so she referred her complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
One of our investigators considered Miss Es complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, he 
said:
He obtained the financial information and the accounts Funding Circle gathered from 
Company A in order to carry out its due diligence. This included accounts for the year 
ending 31 October 2016 and 31 October 2017, bank statements from January to 
April 2018, an Experian credit report which identified Company A as being low risk as 
well as a personal guarantee from the director of Company A prior to approving the 
loan.
He was satisfied that there was nothing within the financial documentation which 
would indicate that there were any issues with the borrower or that it was 
inappropriate for the loan to be acquired on Miss Es account. He didnt think Funding 
Circle acted outside of how it described the function of the account.
He acknowledged that whilst the loan had been sold at a loss to a third party since it 
had defaulted, he said the terms and conditions allowed Funding Circle to decide the 
best route to take in order to make recoveries.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators view. She said that Funding Circle has failed to 
note that a bank loan was omitted by Company A in existing outstanding loans section in 
the promotional material for the loan even though it was in accounts for the year ending 31 
October 2017. She also said the bank loan would have shown in the bank statements if 
repaid monthly and that there was a legal charge for it on Companies House. As a result, 
Miss E felt Funding Circle had failed in its due diligence. 
The investigator considered Miss Es further points but explained that it didnt change his 
opinion. He said the existing outstanding loans section she had referred to was a feature 
from when investors could choose which loans to invest in. However, Miss E was 
automatically allocated the loan and so this feature wasnt relevant as she didnt review the 
financial information before investing. He also considered her comments about the 
borrowers existing loans and confirmed that Funding Circle was aware of this charge and 
considered it when it approved the loan. 
As Miss E remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the wider regulatory obligations on Funding 
Circle. Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCAs consultation papers on loan-based and investment-
based crowdfunding platforms  including the refences to the due diligence expectations 
placed on platforms.
As explained above, the loan subject to this complaint was added to Miss Es account as 
part of the automated loan allocation process. This means she didnt select the loan after 
reviewing a promotion  so Im not considering whether she was provided with misleading 
information before deciding whether to invest. But rather whether Funding Circle acted in her 
best interests by allowing the loan to be available for allocation to her based on the selected 
investment criteria for her account. This included the due diligence it completed before 
allowing her to invest.
Funding Circle has provided this service with the evidence it collated including a credit check 
and financial statements on the borrower before accepting the loan and making it available 
on the platform. Having reviewed these, I agree with our investigator that nothing contained 
within this financial information suggests the loan shouldnt have been approved. Whilst the 
credit check gave Company A a low risk rating, ultimately, Miss E had a balanced risk 
profile, meaning she could be allocated loans across the full range of risk bands.
I understand Miss E has concerns that Funding Circle may not have conducted proper due 
diligence on Company A as a bank loan wasnt included in the existing outstanding loans 
section in the promotional material for the loan. Regardless of whether this was included or 
not, Im satisfied that Funding Circle was aware of the bank loan as it was included in the 
financial information it obtained before approving the loan. Therefore, it follows that Funding 
Circle considered the bank loan before approving the loan and allocating it to Miss E. As 
such, I cant agree that Funding Circle failed in its due diligence. 
Ive also considered Miss Es comments regarding the loan being sold to a third party 
following default. Having done so, Im satisfied that Funding Circles terms and conditions 
allowed for it to sell the loan to a third party:
13.7. We, the Security Agent or the Security Holder will act in a fair and equitable 
manner to achieve maximum recovery for all affected Investors (and this may include 
agreeing new payment terms or selling the debt to a third party)
Ive also not seen anything to suggest taking this cause of action wasnt in Miss Es best 
interests. Funding Circle has confirmed that there was no guarantee that recoveries could be 
made on the loan and taking this cause of action meant that the funds from the sale were 
returned to investors immediately, rather than incrementally over the remainder of the 
recovery process. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that failings by Funding Circle have led to Miss E 
being assigned a loan she shouldnt have been.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman