DRN-1631697
The complaint
Miss K and Mr P complain about the settlement and handling of an accidental damage claim 
they made to Assurant General Insurance Limited under a mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K and Mr P had mobile phone insurance with Assurant. On 28 July 2019, they made a 
claim when the phone was damaged accidentally.  Assurant accepted the claim and 
replaced the phone.
When they received the replacement phone, Miss K and Mr P noticed it was scratched. They 
sent in some photographs of the phone, but Assurant said the marks were cosmetic and 
wouldnt affect the functionality of the device.
Miss K and Mr P later contacted Assurant to tell it the battery wear level was down to 35%. 
Assurant said that if it was faulty, it could offer a cash settlement of £235. But they werent 
happy with this and said they wanted their original phone back, which still had three months 
left in warranty. 
Assurant agreed to try and find the original phone, but it couldnt be located. It then asked 
Miss K and Mr P to return the replacement phone so it could be reviewed for faults, but the 
engineers couldnt locate any faults. Assurant sent the replacement phone back and told 
Miss K and Mr P it would review their decision if they could provide a diagnostic report.
Miss K and Mr P remained dissatisfied and so they complained about that, the lack of 
communication, and the time it had taken Assurant to deal with their complaint. 
Assurant maintained its position. It explained the terms and conditions of the policy allowed it 
to settle the claim by providing a new or refurbished replacement. It accepted there was 
cosmetic damage, but this didnt affect the functionality of the phone and its engineers had 
been unable to verify the faults theyd reported. It also said it had listened to the available 
call recordings and it was satisfied the service had remained professional throughout. And it 
was satisfied Miss K and Mr Ps enquiries had been dealt with within a reasonable timeframe 
and there were no unnecessary or unreasonable delays.
Miss K and Mr P complained to this service. They didnt think Assurants offer of £235 was 
enough, considering their phone was worth about £500, and theyd paid a £75 excess 
payment. They didnt think it was fair for them to waste time and incur costs obtaining a 
diagnostic report in support of their complaint, and they pointed out theyre still paying for the 
original phone, which they bought on a two-year plan. Finally, they said they were left 
without a phone from the point they complained, to 3 September, the point at which Assurant 
issued its final response. And that the time theyd been spent dealing with the claim had 
resulted in unnecessary trouble and upset.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She was satisfied Miss K and Mr 
P had provided evidence to support the battery wear level was down to 35%. She was 
satisfied Assurants final response had been issued within the 8-week timeframe, but she 
didnt think it was reasonable for Miss K and Mr P to have been left without a phone for that 
period. And she agreed theyd had to spend time liaising with Assurant about the elements 
of the claim they were unhappy with. So, she recommended Assurant should pay them £200 
compensation. 
Assurant asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It commented that a 
35% wear level on the batterys health doesnt necessarily mean it is faulty, and it still 
passed the quality checks. It maintained it acted efficiently and promptly throughout, it was 
reasonable to have asked for the phone to be returned under warranty for the alleged faults 
to be verified, and the cosmetic nature of the faults meant Miss P and Mr K could have still 
used the phone.
Miss K and Mr P believe the damage is more than merely cosmetic, and they dont think it 
was a reasonable replacement. Theyve explained the photos show dirt in the microphone, 
speakers and lightning connector, which is unhygienic, and the condition of the microphone, 
speakers and charging port affects the sound quality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy state if your device is damaged or breaks down, we 
will either repair the device, or replace it with a device of the same make and model. Im 
satisfied Assurants decision to replace the phone was fair and reasonable and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Im also satisfied that, once Assurant had replaced 
the phone, it wasnt required to retain the original, despite it having agreed to try and locate 
it. And, I understand Miss P and Mr Ks original phone was under warranty, but the 
replacement phone did come with a warranty, and Im satisfied that was fair.
The warranty on the replacement phone states 'we only cover damage if it stops the normal 
functioning of your device, if it is just a scratch or dent, and your device still works as 
expected, then we will not repair or replace it.' The available evidence suggests the phone 
was still working, and Miss K and Mr P chose not to obtain evidence to support their 
argument to the contrary.  
However, Miss K and Mr P have provided evidence in the form of a screenshot showing the 
battery wear level was down to 35%. Theyve also explained the battery heats up when the 
phone is on charge, and theyre provided further photographs which they say shows dirt 
which affects the sound quality and means the phone is unhygienic. Taking all this into 
account, Im satisfied that while the visible damage is cosmetic, and the phone still works, 
Miss K and Mr P have shown the functionality of the phone is affected by the condition of the 
battery and that the overall condition of the phone means that it wasnt fair or reasonable as 
a replacement. 
Assurant has recently said its not possible to validate whether the screenshot of the battery 
wear level relates to the same phone, and thats why it asked for a report from the 
manufacturer. I accept its possible the photograph doesnt relate to the phone in question, 
but Miss K and Mr P sent it in to Assurant to be reviewed in good faith, and I think its 
unreasonable to expect them to go to the trouble of obtaining a report from the manufacturer 
when theres no reason to suspect their account of the problems with the battery isnt 
genuine.Assurant has also pointed out there are ways to improve battery life such as reduction of app 
usage, backlight dimming and running up to date software on the device, but I dont think its 
reasonable to expect them to take such measures in circumstances where they were entitled 
to a fully functioning replacement.
Miss K and Mr P have said they had to spend 6 weeks without a fully functioning phone. 
Assurant has argued this wasnt the case as it only had the phone for three days while it was 
being assessed, and the rest of the time they chose not to use it. Having accepted the issue 
with the battery did affect the functionality of the phone, Im satisfied Miss K and Mr P did 
spend this period without a reasonable replacement, and that was unfair.
Assurant offered Miss K and Mr P £235 in settlement of the claim, which they rejected as 
insufficient. Its also suggested Miss K and Mr P could replace the battery at a comparatively 
small cost. But, considering the overall condition of the phone, I dont think its fair to ask 
them to do that.
I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Assurant to provide a new replacement 
phone, upon receipt of the phone Miss K and Mr P have complained about. It should also 
pay them £100 compensation for the time they spent without a fully functioning phone and 
the unnecessary trouble and upset theyve experienced as a result of Assurants handling of 
the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
provide a new replacement, upon receipt of the phone Miss K and Mr P have 
complained about.
pay Miss K and Mr P £100 compensation. This is to be paid within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell Assurant General Insurance Limited Miss K and Mr P accept 
my final decision (if they do). If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a 
year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Assurant General Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest, they must give Miss K and Mr P a certificate showing how much tax 
theyve taken off if they ask for one. They may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman