DRN-3870596
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy NewDay Ltd havent refunded two transactions he disputed on his credit 
card account.
What happened
In June 2022 two transactions were made using Mr Ds credit card, one online transaction 
for £178 on 9 June 2022 and one Chip and personal identification number (PIN) for £295 on 
25 June 2022. Mr D contacted NewDay on 29 June 2022, after receiving his statement, to 
dispute them. 
During the call to report the disputes, NewDay explained that the transaction for £295 was 
made via Chip and PIN and asked if the card was in Mr Ds possession. He said I just 
realised its not after checking my wallet. He also confirmed hed last had the card a couple 
of weeks previous.
NewDay refunded the transactions at first but, following investigation into them, re-debited 
them as they found no evidence of fraud. The first transaction for £178 had been verified via 
a one-time passcode sent to Mr Ds phone. When this was presented to Mr D he told 
NewDay he had lost his phone. NewDay maintained their stance and also restricted Mr Ds 
credit facility on the account to pay in only so Mr D referred his concerns to this service.
Our investigator didnt think NewDay had done anything wrong in not refunding the 
transactions, as she thought Mr D had most likely authorised the transactions himself or 
allowed someone else to make them.
As Mr D remained unhappy the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on 
all of it. This isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service.
As a general rule, NewDay can hold Mr D liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests he authorised them. The disputed transactions on Mr Ds account were made by 
Chip and PIN and online (using the card details).
The first transaction was verified via a one-time passcode sent to Mr Ds phone. Mr D told 
our investigator he lost his phone in early June 2022 along with his wallet, but I note he 
didnt report this at the time of raising the disputes with NewDay. And after he was told the 
payment for £295 was verified by Chip and PIN and asked if he had his card, he said he 
didnt and only realised after just checking his wallet.
This suggests Mr D didnt lose his wallet as it was in his possession when he reported the 
transactions on 29 June 2022.
NewDay have confirmed that the billing information for the transaction of £178 match Mr Ds 
address. The payment for £295 was a hotel booking which matched Mr Ds name, mobile 
phone number and email address. Given the type of bookings they were I find it likely 
confirmation emails wouldve been sent to the email address provided which matched the 
email address Mr D had given NewDay. I think Mr D would have been aware of the 
transactions before his statement was issued and could have reported them sooner.
Having spoken to the hotel where the transaction took place, theyve confirmed that upon 
check in they require photo identification. As the booking was made in Mr Ds name and paid 
for with his credit card, I think its likely whoever checked in also provided photographic 
identification that matched this information. 
There were no incorrect PIN attempts and I note Mr D said he didnt know the PIN by heart 
so would check the PIN in the app. NewDay have provided information which shows the PIN 
was viewed on the 25 June 2002, the same date the hotel transaction took place.
Whilst Im aware Mr D said he had lost both his phone and wallet and its a possibility that 
someone couldve used the phone to gain access to the account and also used the credit 
card itself. Im not persuaded this is the case taking account of the sequence of events.
The testimony Mr D gave at the outset conflicts with information provided to our service. And 
Mr D didnt report his card as lost as soon as he was aware. If he had, he may have been 
able to prevent the second transaction taking place.
If someone had acted fraudulently, I also find it likely that theyd look to make as many 
purchases as possible rather than one transaction at the beginning of the month and one at 
the end. They would be looking to take what they could before being discovered, and a block 
put on the account.
Following the investigation into the disputed transactions NewDay made a decision to 
withdraw Mr Ds credit facility restricting his account to payment only. NewDay are entitled to 
decide who they offer a credit facility to as this is a commercial decision. And the terms and 
conditions of the account explain they may cancel or suspend the use of the account. I can 
also see they made Mr D aware of this decision so I cant fairly conclude theyve done 
anything wrong here.
Overall, on balance, based on the evidence, I think it more likely than not that Mr D 
authorised or consented to the disputed transactions so I cant fairly ask NewDay to refund 
them. And Im satisfied NewDays entitled to restrict the account in line with their terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman