DRN-2244645
The complaint
Mr M complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. He 
wants compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS as part of his household insurance. 
He contacted it about a matter which he told this service was to do with defence of criminal 
proceedings. Mr M said that DAS failed to give him legal advice within the timescales 
promised (he said that he was entitled to same day legal advice). He added that when he 
was contacted, it wasnt by a fully qualified lawyer, and when advice was given it wasnt 
competent and didnt tell him his legal rights and the courses of action available to him. Mr M 
said that he had wanted procedural general advice, and not advice about the merits of his 
claim. Mr M said that DAS later claimed the matter was too complex and due to this he had 
to seek legal advice privately from solicitors, which meant hed paid money.
Mr M complained to DAS. It said that the legal advice line was designed to only provide 
general advice and couldnt give specialist or specific advice. Mr Ms query was about 
criminal proceedings against him and was outside the scope of what the legal advice line 
could assist with. DAS added that it had considered Mr Ms complaint as required by the 
regulator and noted the number of complaints Mr M had brought over the years.
Mr M complained to us and added that he wasnt happy with the handling of his complaint by 
DAS. DAS explained that during working hours legal advice was provided by its connected 
legal team while outside of working hours an external firm of solicitors provided advice; Mr M 
had spoken to both. It noted that the policy said if a policyholder wanted to make a claim 
when seeking advice, cover couldnt be confirmed immediately. DAS added that there was 
no promise to give same day legal advice and Mr Ms claim was outside of the legal cover 
offered. DAS confirmed that it was unable to provide all the relevant evidence about what 
had happened as Mr M wouldnt consent to allow the connected legal team to share the 
information.
The investigators view was that DAS wasnt at fault. He said that the legal advice line was 
offered by the policy to deal with for confidential and impartial advice on domestic legal 
issues, consumer rights and personal tax matters. It doesnt replace the service of a solicitor 
but does give you immediate access to first stage legal advice before complications set in. 
The investigator noted that the policy made it clear advice was dependent on the availability 
of the advisers. He said that this service couldnt deal with the service or advice given by the 
legal advisers, and noted that Mr M had refused to allow the legal advisers to share 
information to assist with the complaint.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that DAS had breached the terms and conditions of the 
policy by failing to assist Mr M, and pointed out Mr M himself told this service he had 
received advice and the evidence showed DAS offered to consider a claim for legal 
representation if Mr M asked it to do so. The investigator said the policy made it clear if a 
policyholder chose to go elsewhere, DAS wouldnt pay the costs. He noted that DAS did not 
provide its response to Mr Ms complaint in full within eight weeks, but didnt think it caused 
Mr M any harm as he came to this service and there was no impact on the outcome of his 
complaint. The investigator didnt think the failure warranted compensation.
Mr M disagreed. He threatened to take action against this service and said advice hadnt 
been given within 24 hours as required. Mr M repeated his earlier arguments and said the 
investigator didnt investigate properly and considered irrelevant matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to DAS, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Ms complaint at its core is in two parts  the handling of his calls to the legal help line 
and the handling of his complaint. The evidence available to me is reduced as Mr M hasnt 
consented to full information sharing and hasnt told this service exactly what his calls to the 
legal help line were about. All that I know is Mr M was facing criminal proceedings.
The legal help line within the policy as described is a fairly basic service. Its primarily for 
domestic legal issues, consumer rights and personal tax matters and doesnt replace the 
service of a solicitor according to the terms of the policy. Theres no guarantee of same day 
legal advice and the policy makes it clear that advice might be provided later. Due to the 
inability of DAS to access the full information from the legal advisers (due to Mr Ms refusal 
to give consent), even DAS isnt certain what has happened, but has accepted the 
assurance of those advising that Mr Ms queries ultimately were outside the scope of the 
basic legal help line service.
I think its more likely than not that this is correct. The legal help line doesnt cover specific or 
specialist advice, and Mr Ms reference to criminal proceedings leads me to conclude that if 
his queries were about this, the legal help line couldnt help him as criminal matters are 
specialist and not a domestic legal issue. 
An insurer is responsible for the advice given on the help line but we wouldnt normally be 
able to comment on the quality of it. There are limited circumstances where we could, for 
example where the insurer accepts the advice was wrong or we had other evidence from 
someone suitably qualified to say the advice was wrong. But these exceptions dont appear 
to apply in Mr Ms case.
Mr M told this service that he did receive some advice, but also says he only wanted basic 
procedural advice. Theres no evidence available to me on which I could find DAS acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in how Mr Ms calls were handled or in the quality of advice 
provided. I would also point out that Mr M didnt make a claim for legal assistance, but chose 
to instruct his own solicitors. Those solicitors dealt with Mr Ms case from the limited account 
hes given this service, which is not a service offered by the legal help line. The policy only 
covered very few criminal proceedings and Mr M didnt make a claim.
 
Complaints handling is not a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service. But I can 
look at whether DAS generally acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with Mr M. Given 
the difficulties in getting information from the legal advisers due to Mr Ms refusal to allow 
data sharing, the complexity of the matter and Mr M being told by DAS that he could 
approach this service after eight weeks, I dont think that DAS in all the circumstances did act unfairly or unreasonably in how it handled the complaint. Merely providing a final 
response letter after the eight week period to wait before approaching this service isnt 
necessarily unfair or unreasonable. DAS from the evidence available to me did consider and 
investigate Mr Ms complaint and provided a detailed response. In any event, I cant see that 
Mr M suffered any detriment, other than minor annoyance or frustration, and I dont think 
compensation is warranted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
10 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman