DRN-4012511
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) unfairly passed her loan to its recoveries 
department.
What happened
Ms M, a sole trader, had a secured business loan from BoS. During the pandemic lockdown 
period, Ms Ms business ran into difficulties and she was unable to make repayments on the 
loan. At the end of 2020, BoS issued a formal demand for repayment then transferred the 
loan to its recoveries department. Ms M later repaid the loan in full.
Ms M complained to BoS, saying that shed been in regular communication with the bank 
and had been repeatedly reassured and told not to worry about the missing repayments. 
She said she was then shocked to hear that the loan had been moved to recoveries. As a 
result she had to undertake a substantial project to separate one floor of the business 
premises to sell as a residential property, in order to repay the loan in full.
Unhappy with the banks response, Ms M referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the available evidence and concluded that the bank hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. She gave the following reasons, in summary:
Ms M was experiencing financial difficulties and requested a repayment holiday. But 
BoS explained it wasnt able to offer a holiday because repayments had already been 
missed.
Because Ms M could give no date when the arrears would be paid, the bank made it 
clear that the loan would be transferred to recoveries, so that the recoveries team 
could set up an affordable repayment plan.
The account was eventually transferred to BoSs recoveries department. This 
enabled the bank to negotiate an appropriate repayment schedule with Ms M while 
she sought to sell part of her property. Given the substantial arrears, the investigator 
considered this to have been an appropriate action by the bank. 
The investigator hadnt seen anywhere that the bank had told Ms M that she 
shouldnt worry about the arrears.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She made the following points, in 
summary:
The loan was passed to recoveries without her knowledge when her business 
couldnt operate because of the lockdowns. Ms M consistently kept a conversation 
going with the bank about the effects of COVID and how she and they might work 
together to come to a solution. Previously the loan ran without default.
She would have continued to pay the loan after lockdown, including the arrears. 
Instead her partner had to take out borrowing to pay her business loan in full.
The bank turned its back on a small business at the most vulnerable time in history, 
taking advantage of its weaker position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
BoS kept Ms M informed about the missed repayments and the arrears position throughout 
2020. Im satisfied that Ms M was aware of her mounting arrears. By October 2020, she had 
missed seven monthly repayments. I can see that Ms M asked for a repayment holiday, but 
the bank wouldnt agree to this when there were already substantial arrears. This was in line 
with its usual approach, and I dont think it was unreasonable. 
From BoSs internal notes, I can see there were discussions with Ms M in October 2020 
about the arrears position. There was no prospect that Ms Ms business could generate 
enough revenue in the near future to make up the arrears and start monthly repayments 
again. The bank warned her that a formal demand would be issued and, when the deadline 
expired, the debt would be transferred to the recoveries department. Thats what happened 
 BoS issued the formal demand in November 2020 and the debt was passed to recoveries 
after the 14-day period expired. I dont think the bank had failed to warn Ms M what would 
happen as a result of the arrears and the difficulties faced by her business.
During the October 2020 discussions, Ms M mentioned the plan to generate funds to repay 
the loan from the conversion and sale of the residential property. That plan was pursued 
further when the loan was in recoveries. Ultimately this enabled Ms M to repay the loan at 
the end of 2022.
I agree with the investigator that the transfer to recoveries allowed Ms M to negotiate a 
repayment plan for the loan. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for the bank to 
transfer the loan to its recoveries department.
I also agree with the investigator that theres no contemporaneous evidence that the bank 
told Ms M that she shouldnt worry about the arrears.
Ms M feels let down because BoS pursued the arrears when her business was in trouble. 
She says she would have been able, after the lockdown, to resume repayments again. I can 
understand that Ms Ms business had been severely affected by the lockdowns, and she 
hoped to put things right when the market improved. But the bank didnt take action until the 
repayments had fallen into considerable arrears, and no one at the time knew how the 
pandemic or the economy would develop. In the circumstances, I cant reasonably say that 
the bank should have continued to wait before seeking repayment. 
I realise that Ms M will be disappointed by my decision, and I understand the depth of her 
feelings about these events. But I dont think BoS acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
transferring her loan to its recoveries department.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman