DRN-4384999
The complaint
Ms E has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. She isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms E was involved in an accident that was reported to her insurer but when Admiral looked 
into the claim it turned it down. This was because Ms E was driving on a provisional licence 
at the time of the accident, but she wasnt accompanied. And as she should have been it 
wouldnt pay the claim and is now looking to recover its costs from Ms E.
As Ms E believed she was driving under her foreign European licence she complained to 
Admiral. But it said that Ms E was driving in this country under her UK provisional driving 
licence, not her European licence, and maintained its position. So, Ms E complained to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms E but didnt uphold her complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position Ms E found herself in she didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong as Ms E had a UK provisional licence and so she shouldve been 
accompanied at the time of the accident. 
As Ms E didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite my natural sympathy for the position Ms E has found herself I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms E, but Ill 
explain why.
Ms E seems to feel that she was entitled to drive in the UK under her European licence, but I 
understand that her original licence was issued in another continent, so she was issued with 
a provisional licence in this country which was the licence she was driving on at the time of 
the accident. And so, she needed to be accompanied by a qualified driver in order to drive in 
the UK and so be insured. 
I know Ms E feels that she was driving under her European licence at the time of the 
accident. But she wasnt provided with a full UK driving licence when she applied for a 
licence in this country, as she had passed her test in another continent, but a provisional 
licence was issued instead. This was because the DVLA wasnt able to provide her with a 
full licence as she didnt pass her test in Europe. 
Ultimately, this means that the valid licence Ms E was using at the time of the accident was 
the provisional licence she was issued in the UK. So Ms E needed to be accompanied when 
driving generally and crucially in this instance at the time of the accident.
Given this, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Ms E has found herself, I dont 
think Admiral has acted unfairly. I say this as, from the information before me, that Ms E 
wasnt eligible to drive on her own at the time of the accident. 
If Ms E is able to provide any evidence to the contrary to support her position then I would 
expect Admiral to consider this. And I would expect Admiral to be as considerate as possible 
in looking to recover any outstanding costs from Ms E, especially as it is accepted by all that 
Ms E didnt realise she wasnt able to drive unaccompanied as she had passed her test 
abroad previously.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman