DRN-3890216
The complaint
Mr B complained about the suitability of the advice he received from Portal Financial 
Services LLP to transfer his two personal pension plans (PPPs) into a self-invested personal
pension (SIPP).
At the time Portal gave its advice it was operating under a different name. But as its now 
known as Portal, I shall only use that name in this decision.
What happened
Mr B says he was originally contacted through a cold call with the offer of a pension review.  
He hadnt been seeking advice but when he was offered a free review, he accepted and was 
visited by a Portal adviser at his home. Portal went on to advise him to start a SIPP with 
Novia and to transfer the funds he held in two PPPs with ReAssure. Portal also advised Mr B 
on how his funds ought to be invested. Mr B accepted the advice he was given.
At the time of the advice (2013) Mr B was 44 years old. He was married and working as an 
HGV driver. Mr B had no investment or pensions expertise or experience; indeed he had 
only ever had one bank account.
The funds from Mr Bs PPPs were transferred into his new SIPP and together their transfer 
value was just under £8,500. Mr B says these were his only pension arrangements.
 
In summary its said Portal unsuitably advised Mr B to start the SIPP with Novia and for him 
to transfer his pension funds into this SIPP, where they were invested with Portals advice. 
Its said Portal failed to do what they ought to have done as part of the advisory process and 
failed to meet the requirements they needed to meet as regulated financial advisers. And its 
said this has caused Mr B a loss he can ill-afford.
An application for the transfer of Mr Bs existing PPPs to the Novia SIPP was submitted 
online in December 2013 by a Portal adviser. 
The transfer completed in January 2014 and the charges involved in the transfer included an 
initial adviser charge of 5% of the transfer values, (approximately £422). There was also an 
ongoing adviser charge of 1% per annum of the fund value deducted from the SIPP.  As well 
as product charge applied by Novia, and a Novia Documentation charge.
The fund value was split between a range of investments including:
Aegon Ethical Cautious Managed Fund 
Premier Miton MA Distribution
Invesco European High-Income Fund 
Marbella Resort Spa 
Lakeview UK Invest 
Motion Picture Global 
Strategic Residential Development Feb 2014
Cash  
In April 2014 units in the Premier Miton MA Distribution Account were valued at £0.00.
In August 2017 liquid assets were disinvested and just over £5,067 was transferred out of 
the first SIPP wrapper to a new Novia SIPP wrapper with the same charging structure, under 
the model name Wrapper 2 Headway Liquid.
This activity is again linked to Portal. Novia provided the names of the advisers at Portal 
linked to Mr Bs plans. The new portfolio was split between:
 
Dimensional World Equity Account 78.71% 
Dimensional Global Short Dated Bond Account 16.29% 
Cash 5%
Mr B says that after the first meeting at his home in 2013, he never saw anyone from Portal 
again in person. Mr B says Portal would send him documentation to return to themselves.
In February 2021 Mr B was contacted by his representatives who drew his attention and 
concern to the advice he had received in regard to his SIPP products and investments. A 
complaint was made to Portal on Mr Bs behalf; however Portal didnt respond. In May 2021 
Mr Bs complaint was referred to this service.
Portal were asked to provide copies of their file and were written to in May and November 
2021, but we received no response. In December 2021 we let Portal know wed received 
confirmation Mr B was a client of Portal, he was linked to various of their advisers and 
trading names. We received no reply to this letter.
Mr B confirmed to us that at the time he had no investment experience. He said he relied on 
Portal as professionals. He told us he was and is a cautious investor who prefers to keep his 
finances simple. He had only recently re-joined a work pension scheme as he became more 
concerned about funding his approaching retirement as he had no other pension 
arrangements in place.
Investigators view
Having informed parties this service would progress the investigation in the absence of 
anything from Portal, an investigator went on to issue her view. She upheld the complaint as 
she didnt think Portal had given suitable advice to Mr B. She didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate a transfer was necessary or in Mr Bs interests, nor did she think it 
could have been reasonably expected to deliver a financial benefit to Mr B.
The investigator went on to set out what she thought Portal ought to do to redress any loss 
caused to Mr B and how, as well as an additional award for his distress and inconvenience.
Portals response
Portal then contacted this service to say they disagreed with the view. We gave them the 
extra time they requested to submit their reasons. 
Portal object to Mr Bs representatives representing Mr B. They also consider the Novia 
SIPP met Mr Bs needs. In summary they say that during their fact find meeting on 23 May 
2013 Mr B set out his objectives. They consider the Novia SIPP involved reduced charges 
compared to the arrangement Mr B had at the time. They suggest its a valuable benefit that 
Mr B could release tax-free cash without taking an annuity and say the available additional 
drawdown feature wasnt available with some other types of pension plan.Portal say that at the time the Novia plan was part of their firms core products. They 
consider it was a competitively charged plan offering the right type of options as well as a 
range of investment options.
Portal thought their adviser had been right to conclude the historic performance of Mr Bs 
plan over the preceding five years could be improved when considering Mr Bs attitude to 
risk and the period of time until retirement.
Portal stress their 1% annual management fee was not mandatory and was an optional 
service available to Mr B, which they said would enable him to expand the growth of his 
investments and keep them under review. They said the charge would include facilitating 
further withdrawals and the provision of advice where needed. So they didnt think this 
charge ought to be included in any charges comparison.
Whilst Portal sent in the reasons they say the investigators view was wrong, they did not 
provide any additional material. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her thinking and the case was referred for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
Its said Mr B has suffered a loss of around £3,390, Im not entirely clear on how this sum 
was reached. Tis has not been clarified. I understand that whilst the SIPP received just 
under £8,500 from the PPPs in January 2014, by January 2021 the SIPP had a value of just 
over £7,700; although it appears the SIPP contains some illiquid investments.
Provisional decision
On 13 December 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. I indicated I intended to 
uphold the complaint and I set out what I intended to say Portal must do. I didnt disagree 
with the general findings of the investigator, but I set out that I intended to increase the 
award for distress and inconvenience, and I wanted to clarify some elements of the 
proposed redress with additional detail. 
Mr Bs representatives accepted the provisional decision, Portal did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have seen I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my 
provisional decision. I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
In reaching my provisional decision I have taken into account everything provided. I note that 
Portals only contact about this complaint has been in respect of the provision of written 
reasons as to why they dont agree with the investigators view. In these reasons they refer 
to an initial fact find meeting, and Mr Bs attitude to risk in general terms, and to comparisons 
they say they conducted between arrangements. However Portal have not provided any 
information on this or from their business file. I highlighted this in my provisional decision too.
As I explained, in such circumstances, I find it difficult to attach any substantial weight to 
what Portal said in their submissions. In other words I didnt find them persuasive. It isnt 
clear to me for example how or why Portal consider they are in a position to make submissions about their advice or Mr Bs attitude to risk, without saying what they concluded, 
let alone how they reached such conclusion.
We did not receive copies of any contemporaneous documentation from Mr B and his 
representatives either. It was Novia who let us know that because Portal set up matters 
online there is no copy of the original application form. Ive seen, as a consequence of what 
Novia have told us, that as recently as 2021 Portal were attached to Mr Bs plans and 
apparently receiving limited ongoing adviser fees.
In reaching my provisional decision, Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities, that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here. 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not misleading. 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule). 
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. COBS 9.2.1R (1) says:
 A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation is suitable for 
its client.
Portal have not provided any evidence that those steps were taken or therefore that the 
recommendation was suitable. 
With regard to the pension advice Portal gave on changing providers, in 2008 the regulator 
issued a report entitled quality of advice on pension switching. The report provided 
examples of poor, compliant and good, examples of advice given since pensions A-day. 
Some examples below note what it thought would constitute unsuitable advice:
A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a stakeholder 
pension would have fulfilled the customers needs
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was the 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there is no evidence this option was needed)
The regulator clearly outlined what should be considered and stated cost was a factor as 
well as the provision of suitable reasons for transfer. Therefore, if additional costs were 
involved with the advice to switch or if the client ended up paying for services, they were 
unlikely to utilise, this is likely to indicate that the advice was unsuitable.Portal have not provided evidence as to why the transfer may have been suitable, beyond 
what they said in answer to the view. Ive seen what Portal say about why the Novia product 
was one of their preferred options at the time. My decision isnt concerned with the Novia 
product per se but with the need and cost to Mr B in changing provider, in addition to what 
followed.
I think there were additional costs involved as a consequence of transferring to a new 
provider and there is nothing that persuades me that appropriate consideration was given to 
the cost implications, let alone consideration as to whether the SIPP was necessary and 
thus consideration was made of any alternatives to transfer.
Given Mr Bs age and circumstances Im not persuaded potential future access to tax-free 
cash or a specific drawdown option, provided Mr B with a service he needed, and not at that 
time or that it was of sufficient value to outweigh the costs involved in the advice, new 
product and transfer. I havent seen anything to provide a persuasive or sound reason for the 
costs involved.
Whilst it might be the Novias costs were competitive and might have been competitive with 
those charged by ReAssure. I dont know, we havent been provided with enough 
information on this by either party. However, the Novia SIPP costs were not the only costs 
involved in Portals advice. I remain unpersuaded Mr B was someone who would benefit 
from moving from his PPPs to a SIPP.
I dont accept Portals submission that I ought to disregard their ongoing advisers fee of 1%. 
I have not seen any ongoing advice evidenced (save for the activity in 2017 which appears 
to have also been unsuitable for Mr B). This fee was bound up it appears to me with the 
initial advice and has clearly been taken by Portal ever since. Portal say this fee was not 
mandatory, they have not evidenced this. I am not persuaded on what I have seen, Mr B 
was aware this fee was not mandatory.
Based on what I have seen there is nothing that makes me think Mr B was someone who 
would benefit from or who was seeking a wide range of investment options, an ongoing 
service nor that his needs could not have been met through his existing provider. I am left 
with the impression the transfer was completed as part of wider intended changes to Mr Bs 
arrangements by Portal.
Given the costs associated with the new plan and transfer (including advisers fee), I 
consider there was a significant impact on the fund that needed to be recouped to even 
allow the fund to return to the value pre-transfer. For this transfer to have been suitable I 
would need to be persuaded that there was likely to be a sufficient financial benefit for Mr B, 
I am not currently so persuaded. The sums involved here were comparatively limited and as 
such the advice fees had a not insignificant impact on the fund value.
Portal hasnt provided evidence of the research to show why the adviser recommended the 
particular provider chosen or that it was better value than others. And there wasnt any detail 
about what options his existing provider could offer. One of the reasons for switching was to 
achieve higher returns. But in looking at the charges we can compare, it appears the 
charges were significantly higher than the existing PPP. So the SIPP would have to perform 
that much better.
I find Mr Bs account to be credible and as such he accurately describes himself as an 
unsophisticated and cautious person when it comes to financial matters. It seems to me a 
cautious or moderate approach to investment risk wouldnt be an inappropriate description of 
Portals presentation of his attitude to risk in the circumstances, and as such I dont consider 
it was likely that investing in line with his attitude to risk (given also these were his only pension arrangements) would have meant it was more likely than not, that there would be 
sufficient growth such as to make the transfer suitable.
Having looked in general terms at the funds recommended by Portal, these do not appear to 
appropriately reflect Mr Bs attitude to risk. I consider they represent a higher risk to 
investment loss than Mr B would have accepted had he understood the products and had 
Portal adequately explained them, (and certainly given the proportion they represented of his 
portfolio). I have not needed to look in substantial detail at these investments, but Im not 
persuaded Portal recommended suitable investments for Mr B based on what I have seen.
We dont have a copy of any advice report, and have not been told why Portal thought such 
investments were suitable for Mr B. It appears to me, they would face some challenge to 
persuade me they were. I think it can reasonably be said that Portal recommended some 
investments that could be considered relatively illiquid or involve a more complex structure. 
They were collective investments, where investors pool their money to be invested in a 
specified way. They appear to me to have included investments which should have been 
treated as speculative, and only considered suitable for a small portion of the pension fund. I 
consider its doubtful whether investing in any relatively illiquid assets was at all suitable for 
Mr B. 
These type of investment funds were considered by the regulator to have a higher risk than 
many collective investment funds and might reasonably be described as having a more 
specialised nature. 
Considering Mr Bs overall financial circumstances and experience, Im not satisfied that the 
assessment of his ATR can have been an objective appraisal of the level of investment risk 
that Mr B was prepared to take with his pension funds, if such investments were selected. 
I dont consider that Mr B had the capacity to take the level of investment risk even 
associated with the transfer, let alone the further advice and investments Portal 
recommended. I cant see Mr B might have been considered to have had any meaningful 
capacity for loss.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B had need or want of the features or opportunities that the 
new SIPP or investments may have provided, nor that they were suitable.  From what Ive 
seen there was limited opportunity from outset for the transfer to be of benefit, or suitable, 
given the costs involved and the comparatively small fund value.
I am mindful of the fact he did not seek advice and the transaction only happened after 
Portal contacted him on the basis of a cold call. I accept Mr B reasonably relied on the 
knowledge and recommendations of the Portal advisers he dealt with, and the onus was on 
them to demonstrate why moving his pension arrangements was suitable advice. 
Portal (nor Mr B) have not provided any information that demonstrates the transfer to have 
been necessary, in Mr Bs best interests, or suitable, so the new SIPP and transfer should 
not have been recommended. Im not satisfied there was any need for Mr B to incur the 
additional costs, or for him to be exposed to the increased investment risk which resulted 
from the advice Portal gave Mr B.
Here a second arrangement was started (again by Portal) and I cannot understand why this 
was considered necessary or appropriate. Such arrangements are sometimes seen when an 
adviser is seeking to maximise or generate further fees to be taken, but there isnt enough 
information on what happened in 2017 to make any further comment. Nor does it appear 
necessary here for me to consider events in 2017 further. Mr B will have been caused distress as a consequence of the unsuitable advice and poor 
service provided by Portal. For someone with such limited future pension arrangements, the 
realisation he has been poorly and unsuitably advised and caused loss, will no doubt have 
been particularly worrying.
Putting things right
For the reasons above I uphold Mr Bs complaint that the advice to transfer his pensions 
away from Reassure was unsuitable.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Portal should:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable as there has been no loss.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay the sum into Mr B's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of any compensation and any interest. 
Portals payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Portal shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided 
a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement 
age.
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
which seems likely to be the case, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
So, that is the reduction that I think should be applied. However, if Mr B would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Portal should also:
Pay to Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. If Portal considers that it is required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Portal should tell Mr B 
how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")
Mr B's 
Novia Self 
Invested 
Personal 
Pension
Accts
538654
597008Still exists For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the portfolio is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. This is provided Mr B 
agrees to Portal taking ownership of the portfolio/ investment. Portal should take ownership 
of an illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above. 
If it is not possible for Portal to take ownership, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Mr B provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the portfolio and/ or investment would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Mr B's Novia Self Invested Personal Pension by Mr B, should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal total all those payments and 
deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
Whilst ideally a comparison between Mr Bs previous arrangement had it not been 
closed and his current portfolio might also give a fair assessment of loss, we have 
not been provided with enough to assess how meaningful this exercise might be, 
there has been no suggestion of charges or fees being applied or taken (including 
exit fees) before the Novia SIPP was started and the fund transferred and this 
proposed redress was accepted by Mr Bs representatives so it is reasonable to 
conclude it is accepted that all relevant information has been considered.
As such I consider this remedy reasonable.
SIPP fees
Mr B's Novia SIPP is continuing to cost Mr B.
My understanding is SIPP wrapper 538654 only exists because of the illiquid investments. 
In order for the Novia SIPP to be closed and further fees to be prevented, these 
investments need to be removed. But if Portal cant buy them, Mr B is faced with future 
SIPP fees. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal are 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
Portal pay Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Mr B's Novia SIPP to be closed. This is in addition 
to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively, 
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
For completeness
I previously indicated that Id what Portal say about Mr Bs representatives and their 
objections. I have set out my thinking on this in my provisional decision. Here I am satisfied 
this service is able to look at Mr Bs complaint, as referred to this service by his 
representatives. Our service is a free and informal alternative to the courts, and we dont 
require anyone to be represented. However if someone wants to be represented this doesnt 
need to be a professional representative. Any concerns on this aspect can be raised 
elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold the complaint made against Portal Financial Services LLP. 
Portal will be required, on acceptance of my decision, to pay Mr B £300 to represent his 
distress and inconvenience, and to complete the redress exercise set out above and pay any 
sum due to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman