DRN-4204761
The complaint
Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 30 March 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold 
this complaint in part were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that 
provisional decision here, and it forms part of this final decision.
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that 
it is difficult for Mrs E to have to recollect all of the details of what she has been through. Our 
Investigator has captured the events in detail in her view, so I have only outlined the key 
elements to the background here.
In early 2021, Mrs E made a connection through a well-known social media platforms dating 
application, to a person Ill refer to as B, but unknown to her at the time B was a fraudster. 
Between January 2021 and March 2021, the fraudster persuaded Mrs E to make 
international payments to help him, while he was working on a project abroad. Bs reasons, 
for why the money was needed, escalated from needing money for food, having to pay tax to 
local authorities, through to being kidnapped and needing money to pay off a gangster, who 
B said was threatening his life. During this time, Mrs E made a number of international 
payments, through an account she held with another bank, resulting in her losing over 
£35,000.
In early March 2021, Mrs E attempted to make a further payment for £30,000 from the 
account she held with the other bank. But the bank, suspecting she was the victim of fraud, 
refused to make the payment and invoked the Banking Protocol. As a result, on 5 March 
2021, Mrs E instead transferred the £30,000 to her HSBC account (by way of two transfers 
for £15,000), with Mrs E telling her other bank she wouldnt be using the funds to send 
abroad, but instead would use it to repay loans she had taken out.
But, at this point, Mrs E was still under the spell of the fraudster, and she believed Bs life 
was at risk. Hed told her he was being held against his will by a gangster, from whom he 
had borrowed money and he needed to pay the gangster £30,000. Mrs E has acknowledged 
she lied to her other bank and to the Police, after the other bank had invoked the Banking 
Protocol, telling the Police that everything was ok.
Despite what shed been told by her bank, about its concerns about her being scammed, 
Mrs E still believed she had to get money to B, to pay the gangsters and save his life. B had 
asked Mrs E to send money to his interpreter, his interpreters wife and to his 
housekeeper/carer, so that they could forward it on to him, in Eastern Europe. Still under the 
spell of the fraudster Mrs E made the following payments from her HSBC account;
 
3 March 2021 £4,000  (international payment to interpreter)
5 March 2021 £12,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
5 March 2021 £8,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
5 March 2021 £10,000 (international payment to interpreters wife)
HSBCs fraud detection systems blocked the payments for £10,000 and £8,000, and it asked 
Mrs E to call it to discuss the payments. Mrs E told HSBC the £8,000 was for her 
stepdaughters carer for bills, and that the £10,000 was for her partner, who had been held 
up abroad, so had further accommodation costs. HSBC also questioned the other payment, 
for £12,000, that Mrs E had made to the carer on the same day. Mrs E told HSBC this 
payment was for a car for her stepdaughter. Following this call HSBC released the 
payments.
Mrs E has said B told her that hed offered the £30,000 to the gangster, but they then 
demanded a further £15,000 in interest, and without this they wouldnt release his passport. 
Mrs E has said she was distraught by this point, but her sister agreed to raise the money, 
which her sister then sent to the housekeeper (the payments that Mrs Es sister made do not 
form part of this complaint).
A couple of days later, Mrs E has said that B told her that he was free. Shes said that he 
told her hed paid immigration some money for a fast-track Covid test and for an overnight 
stay and that hed booked his flights back to the UK, sending Mrs E what appeared to be 
booking details for a flight on 16 March 2021.
Mrs E has said she went to the airport, expecting to pick B up. But shortly before the flight 
was due to land, Mrs E received an email from whom she thought was an airport official, 
saying that B had been arrested and was under investigation. Mrs E has said, with this, she 
spoke to UK border forces at the airport who told her the email was likely to be fake. Mrs E 
said she waited for over three hours at the airport, but B didnt arrive.
Mrs E then received another email from the airport official. It said B had helped somebody 
carry their luggage, but it had been found to contain illegal substances. The airport officials 
told Mrs E that although the other passenger had told them that B wasnt involved, they 
wanted money under the table to enable B to fly home  they were asking for £55,000.
Mrs E has said she spoke to UK Border Force again, who told her she ought to call the 
Police. Having done so, she said the Police told her it was probably a scam email and that B 
would be on a later flight. But, while talking to the Police, Mrs E then received a call from B 
himself, who told her he was still being held abroad.
The following day, Mrs E received funds back for payments that she had tried to make to B 
from her other bank, but that had been returned by the beneficiary bank. Mrs E has said 
using this money, on 24 March 2021, she sent a further payment for £10,850 to the 
housekeeper, for them to send out to B. Mrs E has said she then raised further money, 
through her credit cards and borrowing from a friend.
Mrs E was then told by B to open a cryptocurrency account in her name. Shes said she was 
under duress while doing this and she traded the funds where she was told to. Mrs E has 
said she thought this method would be an instant payment and help with Bs release. Mrs E 
made the following payments into her cryptocurrency account, from here the money was 
sent to accounts that the fraudsters controlled;
26 March 2021 £500
26 March 2021 £100
26 March 2021 £6,400
29 March 2021 £10,500With the exception of the payment for £100, HSBC blocked all of these payments and asked 
Mrs E to call it to discuss the payments. Unfortunately these calls arent available.
Mrs E has said when B offered this money to the airport officials, they refused to accept it, as 
it didnt cover the amount that had been requested. B told Mrs E that as a result he was 
beaten up by officials and held in custody. But that if a further £10,000 could be raised, he 
would be set free.
Mrs E made arrangements to sell her car, to fund this payment. But later that day she went 
to visit Bs daughter, at the address where B said he lived. But on arrival she was told that 
nobody by Bs daughters name, or the housekeepers name, lived at this address. It was in 
this moment that Mrs E has said she realised shed been scammed and called the Police. 
In total, Mrs E lost £62,350 from her HSBC account. A complete breakdown of the payments 
Mrs E made from her HSBC account is listed below;
3 March 2021 £4,000  (international payment to interpreter)
5 March 2021 £12,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
5 March 2021 £8,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
5 March 2021 £10,000 (international payment to interpreters wife)
24 March 2021 £10,850 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
26 March 2021 £500 (to cryptocurrency wallet)
26 March 2021 £100 (to cryptocurrency wallet)
26 March 2021 £6,400 (to cryptocurrency wallet)
29 March 2021 £10,500 (to cryptocurrency wallet)
Mrs E contacted HSBC to report what had happened. HSBC investigated Mrs Es fraud 
claim and considered its obligations to provide her with a refund. HSBC is a signatory of the 
Lending Standards Boards (LSB) Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised push 
payment (APP) scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances.
It is worth noting here the CRM Code doesnt apply to all transactions made on a customers 
account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to some of the payments Mrs E made as they were 
international payments; the Code only applies to payments made between UK based 
accounts. As well as this, the CRM Code only covers scam payments when the funds are 
being transferred to another person and not to a consumers own account. With regards to 
the payments to the cryptocurrency accounts, Mrs E sent the money to her own account 
held with a cryptocurrency exchange. So the CRM code doesnt apply to the payments     
Mrs E made to international accounts, nor to the payments she made to her cryptocurrency 
account.
HSBC issued its final response on 8 July 2021, not upholding Mrs Es complaint. In summary 
it didnt think Mrs E had conducted any checks to validate the information that she was given 
was true or to confirm the person that she was dealing with was genuine. Alongside this, it 
considered it had provided sufficient fraud warnings. It understood that Mrs E considered 
herself to be vulnerable as she thought Bs life was at risk, but it said when assessed under 
the CRM code, it wouldnt classify her position as vulnerable.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs E then brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. In summary our 
Investigator explained that different considerations applied to the different types of payment 
she made. Regarding the international payments, our Investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to allow the first international payment to go through, but that it was 
right to block the second international payment for £10,000 and to speak to Mrs E. But, while our Investigator didnt think HSBC had asked enough questions during the call, she didnt 
think further questioning would have made a difference.
With regards to the payments Mrs E made to her cryptocurrency account. She thought it was 
reasonable for HSBC to block a number of these payments and to talk to Mrs E. Our 
Investigator noted that while shed been unable to listen to these calls, she thought it more 
likely than not the conversations would have focussed on investment scams, rather than the 
type of scam Mrs E was falling victim to. Overall, she didnt think she could hold HSBC liable 
for these payments as, even if it had warned Mrs E or refused the payments, it was her view 
that Mrs E would have found another way to send the money.
For the three payments that Mrs E made to UK based accounts, our Investigator considered 
whether HSBC had been fair in not agreeing to refund these payments in consideration of 
the CRM code. In summary, our Investigator said shed considered what Mrs E had said 
about making payments under duress and being vulnerable, but she didnt think she could 
be considered as vulnerable, as defined under the code. This was because it was our 
Investigators view that, based on what shed seen, there wasnt anything about Mrs Es 
mental or physical state, that would mean she would have been less able to protect herself 
from this type of scam.
Alongside this, our Investigator considered the warnings that HSBC said it provided during 
these payments. She didnt think either the online or verbal warnings could be considered as 
effective. But our Investigator couldnt see what HSBC could have done that would have 
made a difference. She said this because Mrs E had previously not accepted from her other 
bank, nor the Police, that she was being scammed.
Our Investigator added that she also didnt think Mrs E had a reasonable basis for believing 
the payments she made to the UK bank accounts were legitimate. She said this because 
Mrs E had been warned, in the strongest terms, by her other bank that she was a victim of a 
romance scam and it had refused to make payments. She had also received a visit from the 
Police and been told by multiple people, in positions of authority, that what was happening 
was probably a scam.
Overall our Investigator didnt think HSBC should refund the money Mrs E sadly lost.
Mrs E didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary she said;
-HSBC has not followed the Banking Protocol or applied the appropriate level of care 
to protect her.
-Banks are there to protect vulnerable customers like her.
-Any assumptions about what she may have done, had the bank declined to make 
any further payments is irrelevant.
-HSBC didnt question the huge amount of borrowing.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I would firstly like to acknowledge how devastating it must have been for Mrs E to discover 
that she had fallen victim to such a callous scam. I understand her strength of feeling in 
pursuing this matter. But despite my natural sympathy for what has taken place, I can only 
uphold this complaint if I find that HSBC has not met its obligations in some way.
Im mindful that in her submissions to us, after our Investigator had issued her view, Mrs E 
has said money was lent to her that shouldnt have been, which she went on to send to the 
fraudsters. If Mrs E wishes to complain about a financial institutions lending decision, this is 
something she would have to take up with them in the first instance, to give them the 
opportunity to investigate.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of a romance scam. But, as well as the CRM code that Ive 
mentioned, a bank also has wider obligations and a duty to protect its customers against the 
risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank 
fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud 
or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
These transactions need to be dealt with in two parts; those made internationally and to   
Mrs Es cryptocurrency account (which are not covered by the CRM code) and then those 
made by faster payment to UK bank accounts (which are covered by the CRM code). Thats 
because different considerations apply to the different types of payment, so Ill consider    
Mrs Es and HSBCs liability for each of these payment methods separately.
The faster payments to UK bank accounts
These payments are covered by the CRM code. The CRM Code requires firms to assess 
whether a customer was vulnerable to the APP scam they fell victim to at the time it 
occurred.
Mrs E has been brave enough to tell us something of her background, which I imagine was 
hard to do. These details have been shared with HSBC, so I dont feel the need to go into 
them in detail here.
I have considered what shes told us carefully. There is provision within the CRM Code for a 
customer to be reimbursed notwithstanding the exceptions to reimbursement, if the customer 
was vulnerable to APP scams and it would not be reasonable to expect them to have 
protected themselves against the particular scam they fell victim to.
HSBC didnt think there was enough evidence to prove Mrs E was vulnerable at the time of 
making the payments.
Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Es submissions regarding her background; some of which is 
corroborated by Mrs Es counsellors, who, while mindful of patient confidentiality, have 
confirmed Mrs E as a patient, with them providing her with support around historical trauma. 
Mrs Es background recalls a horrific spiral of abuse, with roots back to her childhood, 
through to her adult life. While, in the moment Mrs E may not have recognised her own vulnerabilities, when looking back Im persuaded that the nature of this type of scam, preyed 
on and exploited the historic trauma that she had suffered.
Given what Mrs E has told us, I think these deep-rooted vulnerabilities would have impacted 
Mrs Es capacity to think clearly about the requests for payments while they were happening. 
Im persuaded they made her more susceptible to falling victim to a scam of this nature and 
impacted her ability to protect herself. In short, I dont consider it would be reasonable to 
expect Mrs E to have protected herself against the APP scam she fell victim to at that time. 
Im therefore minded to say that the fair and reasonable outcome here, when considering the 
CRM code, is that HSBC is responsible for reimbursing Mrs E for her losses covered by the 
CRM Code.
For clarity, this finding only relates to the three payments Mrs E made to UK bank accounts, 
as detailed below;
5 March 2021 £12,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
5 March 2021 £8,000 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
24 March 2021 £10,850 (UK payment to housekeeper/carer)
The international payments and payments to Mrs Es cryptocurrency account
As I mentioned earlier, the CRM Code doesnt apply to all transactions made on a 
customers account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to the payments Mrs E made to 
international accounts, nor to the payments she made to her cryptocurrency account.
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, it isnt the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. Taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to consider whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mrs E when she made the transfers, or whether it could and should have done more 
before processing them.
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably when Mrs E made international payments and payments 
to cryptocurrency exchanges?
Mrs E has accepted she authorised the international payments and payments to her 
cryptocurrency wallet. Because of this HSBC had an obligation to follow her instructions. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
Based on what Ive seen I think the international payments, for £4,000 and £10,000, ought to 
have stood out to HSBC as not being typical of how Mrs E usually ran her account. So I think 
it would be reasonable to have expected HSBC to have sufficiently questioned her about 
these payments. Ive seen that HSBC did question Mrs E about the £10,000 payment, but 
Im not persuaded the conversation went far enough.
But, this in and of itself, isnt enough for me to say that HSBC should refund Mrs E the 
money she lost, I also need to be persuaded that sufficient intervention would have made a 
difference and prevented the payments from being made. Of course, I cant know for sure 
what would have happened had HSBC probed Mrs E further about these payments. So, I 
have to base my findings on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened, taking into account what I know. Having thought carefully about 
this, sadly I dont think any further intervention at this point is more likely than not to have 
made a difference and stopped Mrs E from making the payments. Ill explain why.
Im persuaded Mrs E would have been able to give plausible answers to any questions that 
HSBC could reasonably have been expected to ask. I think she would have been able to 
convincingly explain, that the payments were for her partner and that theyd been together 
for a number of years. Alongside this, given the level of detail the fraudsters had provided to 
Mrs E about the project they were supposedly working on/coupled with Mrs Es own 
personal experience of working with exports/internationally, I think she would have been able 
to provide credible answers to HSBC, had it probed her further about the nature of work B 
was undertaking. As well as this, by now Mrs E was aware of the real possibility of being 
challenged by her bank around the reasons for the payments she was making, and given her 
determination to make them, I think she would have been prepared for this, which would 
have made it all the more difficult for HSBC to uncover what was happening.
On balance, Im persuaded the answers Mrs E would have given would more likely than not 
have satisfied HSBC that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. So I cant fairly or reasonably 
say that further intervention at this point would have made a difference.
Following these international payments, Mrs E goes on to make a payment for £10,850 (to a 
UK account), which was the fourth high value transaction, to new payees, within a month 
and she then starts to make payments to a cryptocurrency account.
HSBC has said that the first and third payments (for £500 and £6,400) to Mrs Es 
cryptocurrency account did flag on its fraud detection system and it spoke to Mrs E before 
allowing the payments to be progressed, but unfortunately those calls are no longer 
available and there are no contemporaneous notes to show that a robust conversation took 
place. I cant know for sure what was discussed, but looking at things in the round, on 
balance I think it was reasonable for HSBC to allow the payment for £500, and the payment 
that followed this, for £100 to be progressed. People can and do legitimately invest in 
cryptocurrency, and here Mrs E was making payments to a wallet that was in her name, and 
that she controlled.
But at the point where Mrs E attempts to send a payment to a crypto wallet for £6,400, Im 
persuaded that her account activity had, by now, become so erratic, that I think HSBC ought 
to have had significant concerns that she was at risk of financial harm from fraud. And Im 
not persuaded she wouldve been able to convince HSBC as to the legitimacy of the 
payments by this point had it sufficiently questioned her.By now, it would have been evident to HSBC, that Mrs E had made multiple high value 
transactions to new payees and to international accounts and now, she was attempting a 
high value transaction for the purpose of purchasing cryptocurrency. Mrs E has told HSBC, 
during calls that it had with her relating to the international payments, that these payments 
were to help her partner who was stuck abroad, for a car for her stepdaughter, to pay the 
housekeepers bills and for the purchase of investments in cryptocurrency  and, for the 
£10,850 payment to a UK account, I can see Mrs E referenced the payment as being for a 
caravan. While it is feasible for a customer to make a payment for any of these reasons, I 
consider it to be highly questionable, to the point of being improbable, that a customer would 
legitimately do all of these, over such a short period of time, for such large amounts, when it 
isnt the typical behaviour for that customer. Its also not lost on me, that HSBC would have 
been able to see large transactions coming into her account to facilitate the payments, 
including a cash deposit for thousands of pounds to seemingly fund an investment in crypto 
currency.
Given HSBC are the professionals here, Id expect a bank to know better, than to allow 
further payments to be made. Im minded, given the circumstances of the case, its more 
likely than not Mrs E would have objected to HSBCs intervention and she would have tried 
to persuade it the payments were for genuine reasons. While Mrs E may have been able to 
speak confidently about the nature of work the fraudster had told her they were carrying out 
abroad and about the payments involving her step daughter and her carer, Im not 
persuaded shed have been as convincing when it came to discussing the payments to 
cryptocurrency wallets. I say that because she hadnt been provided with a cover story or a 
detailed reason as to why payments through crypto were necessary, so Im minded to say 
she would have struggled to have plausibly answered questions HSBC could reasonably 
have asked about these payments.
Even if Mrs E hadnt accepted HSBCs intervention and not heeded the warnings, that I think 
it fairly and reasonably ought to have given, I think the nature of what was happening carried 
so many hallmarks of Mrs E being at such a significant risk of financial harm, that I think 
HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have refused to make any further payments, in order to 
protect its customer from what I think was a clear and present risk of financial harm. With 
this in mind, I think HSBC is, at least in part, liable for the loss that Mrs E suffered when she 
made the payments for £6,400 and £10,500.
Should Mrs E bear some responsibility for her loss?
I have thought about whether Mrs E should bear some responsibility for the money shes lost 
by way of contributory negligence. The consideration of contributory negligence is an 
objective test but in considering whats fair and reasonable Ive factored in Mrs Es 
vulnerability when considering the extent of any deduction for contributory negligence.
Mrs E has sent considerable sums of money based on requests from somebody she had 
never met in person, and only met just a few weeks before online. The reasons she was 
given by the fraudster for the requests included, lending some money for food and 
accommodation, needing money to save somebodys life from a gangster, through to under 
the desk payments to officials to cover a drug smuggling charge.
I understand that the nature of these scams, can often have a negative effect on a persons 
thought process and make them take steps that, in the cold light of day they might not 
otherwise take. But on balance, Im not satisfied Mrs E, given the reasons for the payments 
given and the advice received from the police, airport security and her other bank ought to 
have believed this was a genuine situation and proceeded with the payments.
On that basis, I think Mrs E should share some responsibility for the loss and for a deduction to be made on the losses for £6,400 and £10,500. Considering the individual circumstances 
of this case, I think that a fair and reasonable deduction would be less than we might 
typically order and Im minded to say this should be 25%. Therefore, HSBC should refund 
75% of these two payments.
Interest
Im mindful that Mrs E has funded the payments to the fraudster through a number of 
different sources, including from various bank accounts, money transfers from credit cards, 
cash deposits into branches, loans from banks and loans from friends.
Given Mrs E's losses have come from various sources, it is my intention to take a pragmatic 
approach and say that an award of 8% interest is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
In responding to my provisional decision, Im happy to consider any further points or 
comments on this matter.
Summary
In summary, for the reasons explained, Im minded to ask HSBC to refund Mrs E;
-£32,850 (made up of the three payments for £12,000, £8,000 and £10,850  being 
the payments that are caught under the CRM code).
-Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it declined Mrs Es fraud claim until the 
date of settlement.
-£12,675 (being 75% of the final two payments Mrs E made to her crypto wallet).
-Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of payments to the date of settlement.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs E being the victim of what was clearly a cruel scam 
that has had a significant impact on her. But it would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to 
refund the full amount of her loss if I thought it was wholly responsible for the failures that 
caused the losses. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im currently not persuaded that it 
wouldve been able to prevent Mrs E from losing all of the money she did.
I invited further evidence and comments from both parties.
HSBC responded. In summary, it said as a gesture of good will it was willing to agree to 
refund Mrs E in respect of the payments caught under the CRM code. But it didnt consider 
any refund was appropriate for the payments Mrs E had made to her cryptocurrency wallet.
It said that it had been told the cryptocurrency payments were towards Mrs Es investment 
portfolio and didnt accept there was a clear link between these payments and the earlier 
payments Mrs E had made. HSBC said that it didnt think giving a warning to Mrs E would 
have made a difference and even if it had stopped the cryptocurrency payments, it thought it 
was more likely than not that Mrs E would have found a way to make the payments by 
another method. Overall HSBC thought there were compelling reasons to illustrate why its 
intervention couldnt reasonably have made a difference.
HSBC added that, should it be required to refund Mrs E for the cryptocurrency payments, it 
considered that any reduction should be at least 50%. It said this because to the extent that 
it acted in error and could have made a difference, Mrs Es culpability should be at least equal in respect of the cryptocurrency payments. This response from HSBC was shared with 
Mrs E.
Mrs E responded to my provisional decision and to HSBCs comments. In summary she said 
she was relieved that HSBC had agreed reimbursement of the payments which were 
covered under the CRM code. However, Mrs E said she was disappointed HSBC had taken 
the stance that it was not liable for the payments made to her cryptocurrency wallet. She 
added that at no point did HSBC invoke the Banking Protocol and/or ask sufficient questions, 
throughout her fraud. Mrs E added that HSBC was her largest creditor and that the amount 
of borrowing it had allowed her was unaffordable and irresponsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their responses to my provisional decision. Firstly, I note that Mrs E 
has said that she thinks HSBC were irresponsible in lending money to her that she says she 
couldnt afford. I would remind Mrs E of the comments I made in my provisional decision 
regarding this, if Mrs E wishes to complain about a financial institutions lending decision, 
this is something she would have to take up with them in the first instance, to give them the 
opportunity to investigate. As HSBC hasnt had the opportunity to investigate these 
concerns, they dont form part of this decision.
HSBC has agreed to refund the payments Mrs E made that were caught by the CRM code 
and Mrs E has accepted this, so there isnt any need for me to comment on these particular 
payments any further in this final decision. The only remaining area of dispute seems to be 
around the payments Mrs E made to her cryptocurrency wallet, so I will focus on these 
below. I have thought about what HSBC has said about these payments since the 
provisional decision, but it doesnt persuade me to reach a different outcome.
Banks, such as HSBC, have clear obligations to protect their customers from the risk of 
financial harm and to prevent the furthering of financial crime. For the reasons explained in 
my provisional decision, based on what HSBC knew (and ought to have known had it 
enquired about the payments in the way that it shouldve done) at the time Mrs E was 
making payments to a cryptocurrency exchange, I think it should have had some serious 
concerns.
By this time, Im persuaded, due to the nature of the payments Mrs E was making and the 
activity on her account, that HSBC ought reasonably to have identified that what was 
happening bore the hallmarks of a scam. Furthermore, if HSBC had questioned Mrs E about 
the earlier payments shed made at this point, as Ive explained I think it ought to have done, 
I think it could more specifically have considered the possibility that Mrs E was falling victim 
to a romance scam. Mrs E had multiple incoming credits, was making international payments 
to her partner for work purposes and then making further payments for the purposes of 
supporting family members, followed by payments to cryptocurrency exchanges; all of which 
when considered together bear hallmarks of a romance scam.
Im mindful HSBC has said the payments to cryptocurrency exchanges were for her 
investment portfolio, so there was no clear link to the previous payments Mrs E had made. 
But given the recent transaction history on the account, that HSBC was aware of, I dont 
think it was reasonable for HSBC to accept the purpose that Mrs E gave for the payments at 
face value. The lack of connection between the payments to the cryptocurrency exchanges 
and those proceeding them ought not to have reassured HSBC  instead it ought to have been concerned about why Mrs Rs account activity had so drastically changed compared to 
how it was normally used.
While HSBC doesnt agree, I think an appropriate intervention at the point Mrs E was making 
the payments to her cryptocurrency wallet would more likely than not have made a 
difference to the loss Mrs E incurred. And I say this having taken into account the previous 
interventions that another bank and third parties had made. With another bank being able to 
establish that Mrs E was falling victim to a scam and having taken steps to prevent money 
being lost at that point.
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded Mrs E would have 
been able to plausibly answer further questions HSBC could reasonably have asked about 
these cryptocurrency payments, which I think would only have added to the concerns HSBC 
ought reasonably to have had at this time. As I have explained, with that being more likely 
than not to have been the case, HSBC had various options available to it. For example, it 
could have asked Mrs E to attend branch and invoke the banking protocol, it could have 
asked for evidence to satisfy itself that the payments carrying a risk of fraud (including those 
prior to the payments to the crypto exchanges) were genuine (which Mrs E wouldnt have 
been able to provide) and it could have declined to make the payments to the cryptocurrency 
exchanges altogether. HSBC didnt undertake any of these measures and in my view didnt 
fulfil its role in trying to protect Mrs E from a scam.
While HSBC believes Mrs E would likely have gone on to spend this money in any event this 
doesnt mean it had to allow her to do so. HSBC couldve blocked the payments and put 
limitations on her account to prevent the loss to fraud. While these limitations couldnt have 
been put in place on a permanent basis, they could certainly have prevented the movement 
of these funds for a period of time.
Its relevant that the other bank involved in the scam was able to clearly identify Mrs E was 
at risk of a scam. Unlike HSBC it did put measures in place to prevent the scam but these 
didnt work. But this was much earlier in the scam journey and by the time Mrs E was making 
payments for the supposed purpose of purchasing cryptocurrency, the activity on her 
account was so much more concerning, with the reasons she was giving HSBC for the 
payments being made becoming more farfetched. This coupled with large amounts of funds 
coming into her account, from various sources, was indicative of a scam.
Therefore Im persuaded there was a greater possibility for HSBC to have been able to 
identify and unravel the risk Mrs E was at and as such, a greater need for it to put in place 
more significant measures to protect her from harm. Im persuaded HSBC ought fairly and 
reasonably to have prevented the payments to the crypto exchanges and put limitations on 
Mrs Es account to prevent further harm had it not been satisfied that following an 
intervention Mrs E wasnt going to spend the money anyway. HSBC allowed these payments 
to be processed and as a result is liable, at least to some extent, for the loss Mrs E suffered.
With all of this in mind and considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case, I think HSBC is, at least in part, liable for the loss that Mrs E suffered when she 
made the payments for £6,400 and £10,500.
Finally, Ive thought about HSBCs comments that liability should be shared equally to the 
extent that it is required to partially refund these payments. But, I remain of the view that, 
taking into account Mrs Es individual characteristics and vulnerability , I think that a fair and 
reasonable deduction  to the redress is 25%.Putting things right
I recognise the strength of feeling from both parties in this matter, but for the reasons 
explained I think its fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, to ask HSBC to 
refund Mrs E;
-£32,850 (made up of the three payments for £12,000, £8,000 and £10,850  being 
the payments that are caught under the CRM code).
-Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it declined Mrs Es fraud claim until the 
date of settlement.
-£12,675 (being 75% of the final two payments Mrs E made to her crypto wallet).
-Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date of payments to the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman