DRN-2887272
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be liable for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the 
correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage to the two doors that are provided in 
the inspection report completed at handover. The investigator has set out the 
standard required under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with his 
assessment, that each area of damage is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear. I dont think Mr S is disputing that.
Mr S says the business should have repaired the doors, but I dont think they were 
wrong to charge him to replace them. I say that because I think the damage is clearly 
excessive and appears from the photographs to span much of the doors surface 
area. In those circumstances I think its unlikely an economical repair could be made.
Mr S has suggested that the inspector said he wouldnt pay for replacement doors. 
But it was the same inspector who recommended in the report that the damage was 
excessive, and the doors should be replaced. It was his professional opinion that 
VWFS reasonably relied upon and if he didnt think the doors should be replaced I 
think it was within his remit to say so in the inspection report.
Given the extent of the damage I think it would be likely that VWFS would not 
achieve the value at auction they would have hoped to had the car been returned in 
the requisite condition. And I think the scale of the charge they have made is likely to 
be reasonably proportionate to the loss in value, or repair cost, they would 
experience. 
If VWFS have not completed repairs and have simply sold the car at auction the 
BVRLA guidance allows them to make that commercial decision. So, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to suggest they were wrong to do so.
Overall, I dont think VWFS have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them to take 
any further action. I think their offer of a £200 reduction on the overall bill is a reasonable 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman