DRN-2534455
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Homeserve Membership Limited which arranged emergency 
insurance cover for his business premises. 
What happened
Mr P arranged cover via Homeserve after receiving marketing information about emergency 
cover for plumbing and other utilities at his business address. He made a claim with the 
insurer in early 2020 which was settled. He made a further claim in August 2020, which was 
declined by the insurer on the basis the policy doesnt cover business premises. Mr P 
complained about the insurer and Homeserve. The complaint about the insurer is being dealt 
with separately.
In respect of Homeserve Mr P felt it had mis-sold him the policy  given that the address it 
arranged cover for, for him, was a business premises. He felt it shouldnt have sent 
marketing information to that address and that the marketing had caused him to arrange the 
cover which was actually never suitable for him.
 
Our investigator noted that Homeserve hadnt offered any advice when the policy was 
arranged. He felt it wasnt reasonable to suggest it should pre-vet the addresses it sends 
marketing data to. Overall he felt the marketing information and policy documents made it 
clear the cover was being offered to homeowners and wasnt intended to be applied to 
business premises. Mr P disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr P, but Im not persuaded that Homeserve did 
anything wrong. Many financial businesses carry out mass-marketing schemes. The whole 
point of them is to inform people in a widespread area about the companys wares; some 
will be interested in those wares, some wont, and for some theyll be unsuitable. The 
marketing is not a specific offer of cover  it is sharing information about an available product 
that might be of interest to an individual. If I were to say that a financial business should only 
ever target those the product might be suitable for, that would be unreasonable.
The marketing information Mr P was sent was addressed to Dear homeowner. As this was 
received by Mr P at his business premises this should immediately have alerted him to the 
fact this information was not being sent for the attention of him as a business owner. If Mr P 
read on further, hed have seen that the marketing explained that as the homeowner you are 
responsible for the water supply pipe from your property boundary up to where it enters 
your home (my emphasis). So this should, again, have alerted Mr P to the fact this cover 
was not suitable for him at his business premises. I think the marketing was clear. 
Homeserve has said Mr P arranged the cover online. Mr P says he signed the letter and sent 
it back  but I note theres no invitation to do that within the information sent to him. The 
information says to call Homeserve or complete the application online. Either way there is no 
indication that Mr P received advice from Homeserve as to the suitability of the product. And 
Mr P even says it all comes back to the marketing information  this was what caused him to 
arrange the cover. Whilst Mr P might have misunderstood the information, I dont think that is 
because of any failure of Homeserve to make it clear. I dont think Homeserve misled Mr P, 
or mis-sold this product to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Homeserve Membership 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman