DRN-2722603
The complaint
Ms B is complaining on behalf of the estate of Mrs B about how Aviva Insurance Limited 
handled a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. so, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In April 2020 Ms B made a claim for damage to the porch of the property. It was 
cracking and moving away from the main building.
Aviva assessed the video Ms B had sent it and said it thought the damage was 
caused by water damage. Ms B disagreed and explained that there was a one-inch 
gap all around the porch.
Aviva said due to Covid-19 restrictions it couldnt send anyone to assess the 
damage and Ms B would need to get someone to do this.
Ms B arranged for a structural engineer to assess the damage. 
Aviva on receiving the report, declined the claim under the policy exclusion for 
defective workmanship and design. It said the porch had no foundation, was lying 
directly on clay shrinkage soil. It said there were insufficient restraints to hold the 
porch to the main building. Over time the weight of the porch has compacted the 
soil, causing it to pull away from the main building. Ms B felt this was unfair and 
raised a complaint.
Aviva did agree to send out its contractor to assess the damage and after its initial 
survey it wanted to complete further investigations by way of a trial pit to assess if 
the porch had foundations. However, Ms B said she was concerned the porch was 
dangerous and causing more damage to the property. And as she was in the 
process of selling the property, she was concerned how long it was taking, she 
withdrew the claim and took steps to demolish the porch.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He considered the structural engineers 
report and the policy terms, and, in his opinion, the policy doesnt cover damage as 
a result of settlement. He felt Aviva had fairly compensated Ms B for the costs of 
obtaining the report, together with costs incurred by the engineer in preparing the 
report. And in addition, it recognised it shouldve arranged for the subsidence team 
to attend to look at the damage earlier and paid Ms B £200 compensation.
Ms B didnt agree and told us that she has since had the porch taken down and the 
builder has told her the porch was tied to the main house and in his opinion had 
sufficient footings. Our investigator considered these points, but it didnt change his 
opinion. Ms B has asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy, it provides cover for damage caused by an insured event, which 
includes subsidence. So, Ive firstly considered whether an insured peril (in this case 
subsidence) has taken place. 
To establish if subsidence is the cause of damage, Ive considered Ms Bs expert report 
completed by a qualified structural engineer. The insurer never completed its investigations 
as Ms B took the decision to withdraw the claim due to timescales and that she didnt want 
the sale of the property to be jeopardised.
Within section 4 of the report under  conclusions and recommendations, point 4.2 of the 
report says;
There are three probable reasons why the porch has rotated: 
a) the property and the porch are in an area of past mining activity that has caused 
differential settlement 
b) the porch was constructed without the benefit of foundations and
c) the stone work of the porch is not bonded to the front elevation of the property.
The report discounts the first reason. The engineer goes on to explain that at the time the 
main property was constructed it was common for this type of property to be built without a 
porch and the wall of the front elevation wouldve been built on a strip footing continuously 
placed along the length of the elevation. He has said the porch is made of inferior stonework 
to the stonework that constructs the front elevation of the property. This implies that the 
porch is an extension built onto the front of the property after the initial construction.
He continues to say If it is accepted that the porch was not constructed on a strip footing it 
must equally be accepted that the porch walls are not mechanically tied to the main 
elevation of the wall. When the porch began to rotate no resistance was provided by 
mechanical fixings settlement occurred, and the gaps formed between main elevation and 
the porch. (bolding is my emphasis).
And in section 4.6 he says In consideration of the above it is concluded that the damage at 
the interface of the main elevation and the porch was caused by the absence of strip 
footings below the porch walls. If the soils below the porch were able to support the vertical 
loads from the porch the amount settlement would not have occurred. (bolding is my 
emphasis).
The report does not mention subsidence and only refers to settlement. Ms B felt Aviva had 
misinterpreted the report and so it was agreed that Aviva would speak to the structural 
engineer.
Ive listened to the call between Aviva and the engineer and it included a discussion about 
whether subsidence had occurred at the property. The engineer said the weight of the porch 
had caused compression of the land below it, and this is subsidence. Avivas employee said 
from the report it seemed any compression of the land had been caused by the fact the 
porch wasnt correctly joined to the front of the property. And that this meant the porch 
suffered from poor workmanship  an exclusion on the policy. The engineer then agreed the 
porch had been subject to what he described as inappropriate workmanship. He added 
that he didnt want to go back on what hed said in the report and agreed that Avivas 
interpretation of the report was right.After this phone call the engineer sent Aviva an excerpt from the directory of civil 
engineering which contained a definition of subsidence. It said subsidence is downward 
movement of the ground surface for any reason.
Although Ive considered this, I must look at what the policy covers as this is the contract that 
Ms B has with the insurer. Ive therefore looked at the policy definitions for subsidence and 
settlement;
Subsidence;
downward movement of the land beneath the buildings that is not a result of settlement.
Settlement;
downward movement of the land beneath the buildings as a result of compaction due to the 
weight of the buildings.
Under the section of the policy there are a list of exclusions where the insurer will not pay 
and the two that affect this complaint are;
f) Damage caused by settlement or by shrinkage or expansion of parts of the buildings 
and
g) Damage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship 
Im persuaded the structural engineers report has highlighted that the issues with the porch 
have occurred as a result of settlement and Ms Bs policy does not cover it.
And in any case even if I agreed an insured peril had taken place  which I dont  I think its 
more likely than not that the construction/workmanship of the porch has caused or 
contributed to the settlement, which is excluded by the policy.
I understand Ms B has been told by her builder that the porch was attached to the main 
building, so she believes it wasnt poor workmanship. Ive taken this into consideration 
however, Im more persuaded by the qualified structural engineers report in the 
circumstances of this complaint that the damage was caused by settlement.
I can see Aviva has paid the costs of Ms B obtaining a structural engineers report and costs 
incurred in preparation of the report. And in addition, it has compensated Ms B £200 for the 
error made by its claim handler in instructing Ms B to obtain her own report rather than 
instructing it own experts to attend the property. Im satisfied this is fair compensation in the 
circumstances and wont be instructing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 July 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman