DRN-3148548
The complaint
Mr G complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank closed 
his credit card. 
What happened
Mr G had a M&S Bank credit card. M&S Bank says it identified Mr Gs account as being in 
persistent debt. In June 2018 and March 2019 M&S Bank wrote to Mr G and asked him to 
make contact or increase his regular payments. In January 2020 M&S Bank wrote to Mr G 
and asked him to discuss a payment plan. 
In October 2020 M&S Bank suspended new spending on Mr Gs credit card. In April 2021 Mr 
G called M&S Bank and repaid the outstanding balance in full. During the call, Mr G asked to 
cancel the credit card. 
In May 2020 Mr G spoke with M&S Bank again and said he wanted to continue using his 
credit card. But the call handler explained the credit card had already been closed. Mr G 
complained and M&S Bank issued a final response. M&S Bank said it had closed Mr Gs 
account but agreed it could be reinstated if Mr G got in touch by the end of May 2020. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought M&S Bank had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr 
G asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigator, Mr G said he wasnt told his credit card would be closed after 
he paid off the balance. But during Mr Gs call in April 2020, when he cleared the remaining 
balance, he asked M&S Bank to cancel his credit card. Thats why the credit card was 
closed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but having listened to his call, Im satisfied M&S Bank 
followed his instruction when it closed his credit card. 
I also think its reasonable to note that M&S Banks final response said Mr Gs credit card 
could remain open if he responded by the end of May 2020. So M&S Bank did give Mr G the 
option of retaining his credit card facility when it responded to his complaint. 
In response to the investigator, Mr G said he was concerned M&S Bank had applied unfair 
charges to his credit card. Ive looked at Mr Gs credit card statements and havent found 
any evidence that M&S Bank has incorrectly applied interest or charges. 
I understand Mr G had made all his payments on time and hadnt used all of the credit limit 
available. But changes in regulation in relation to persistent debt meant M&S Bank took the 
step of contacting him and asking for increased payments to be made. I can see M&S Bank 
first contacted Mr G about the payments he was making in 2018 and asked him to increase 
payments or get in touch. Ultimately, in October 2020 M&S Bank took the decision to 
suspend new spending on the credit card but said it could be reinstated if the full balance 
was repaid in six months. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded that M&S Bank acted unfairly in 
this case. Im satisfied M&S Bank was reacting to changes in regulation when it contacted 
Mr G about the position of his account. When Mr G spoke with M&S Bank in April 2020 he 
asked it to cancel his credit card and it followed that instruction. I havent found that M&S 
Bank treated Mr G unfairly when it closed his credit card. As Im satisfied M&S Bank dealt 
with Mr Gs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman