DRN-3884962
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited paid in settlement of 
a claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C had a car insurance policy with Admiral, and he made a claim when the car was
involved in an accident. Admirals engineer deemed the car a total a loss. It had an
independent assessor value the car and they priced it at £5,620. Mr C decided to retain his
car, but he wasnt happy with the valuation or with the way Admiral handled his claim, and so
he complained.
Admiral accepted there were unnecessary delays to Mr Cs claim, it also acknowledged he
had been given incorrect information at times. It paid Mr C £150 compensation for the
trouble and upset it caused him. However, it thought its valuation of Mr Cs car was correct.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He said his car was imported from Japan, and at the time
of the claim there were only two cars on sale that were comparable and were also Japanese
imports. He said both were priced significantly higher than Admirals valuation. Mr C didnt
think the independent assessors report on the condition of his car was accurate. He said his
car is rare and the valuation guide the assessor had used, wouldnt be a suitable way to
gauge its market value.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said adverts dont tend to
be good evidence of likely selling prices. she thought the comments in the assessors report
were the assessors opinion on the car and she couldnt say it was incorrect. Our investigator
also thought the bespoke report and the valuation was reasonable.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion for the following reasons:
He said he was unhappy with Admirals behaviour throughout the claims process.
He thought the photographs he provided Admiral demonstrated the excellent 
cosmetic condition of his vehicle. He also said he has records detailing the strict 
mechanical maintenance his vehicle has been subject to.
He said in the absence of any other type of evidence on the value of a rare car such 
as his, he doesnt see any choice other than to look at sale prices of cars of the same 
specification.
He also said at the time of the claim, there were no cars of the same generation 
available in the UK for sale priced anywhere near Admirals settlement figure.
Mr C provided a report from an independent engineer who valued the car at £10,950.
Our investigator sent Mr Cs engineers report to Admiral, but it didnt change its valuation. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2022, in which I explained that I had 
consulted car valuation guides, but I wasnt able to obtain a valuation for Mr Cs car from the 
guides. Based on the advertised prices Id seen for the closest UK registered version of Mr 
Cs car, I didnt think Admirals valuation was fair. I thought a fair base valuation would be 
£7,500. And I thought it was reasonable for Admiral to deduct 10% from this figure because 
Mr Cs car was imported.  
Admiral accepted my provisional decision, but Mr C didnt agree for the following reasons:
He said the adverts he provided represented the only comparable replacement 
available in the UK at the time of the accident. Both were of a lower specification but 
were imports.
He said my search for similar cars on sale has been carried out just under a year 
after the accident, and there have been changes to the market. He said he also did 
another search and found a comparable car, which has been imported from japan for 
£7,999, however this was not the case at the time of the accident.
Mr C said that there are no differences between the Japanese model and the UK 
model of his car, other than the number plate attachments and in-car system which 
displays the distance travelled in kilometres instead of miles. He said cars like his 
attract a premium when sold in the UK. So, he thought it would be more reasonable 
to add 20% to 30% more on the price of a UK equivalent.
He also said that because Admiral undervalued the car, it was declared a total loss, 
when it could have been repaired.
Admiral explained that following its engineers inspection of the car, it calculated an
estimated repair cost of £3,775.42. It said its decision to write off the car was based on its 
engineers repair estimate in comparison to the independent assessors valuation of the car. 
Admiral also agreed to a further increase to the base valuation from the £7,500, I suggested
in my provisional decision, to a base valuation of £8,000. But it said it would still deduct 10%
because Mr Cs car was imported.
I issued a second provisional decision on 19 December 2022 in which I said: 
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive considered everything he and Admiral have said.
But I havent addressed all his comments here, instead Ive focused on addressing what I
think is key to the decision Ive reached.
Having considered the repair costs its engineers gave, I must agree with Mr C, had his car
been valued fairly in the first instance, I think its unlikely Admiral would have treated it as a
total loss. However, Mr C accepts we cant ask Admiral to treat the car as repairable and
remove the total loss marker, but also pay the cars market value. He confirmed he would
accept a fair valuation of his car in settlement of his claim. This mean I wont ask Admiral to
remove the total loss marker it recorded. He also confirmed he accepted Admirals
compensation in settlement of his complaint regarding its communication and the delays it
caused. So, I wont comment further on these aspects of his complaint. Instead, Ive focused
on the matter which remains unresolved and that is the total loss value Admiral placed on
the car.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think Admirals initial valuation was fair. As it was
unable to obtain a valuation from the guides, I think its reasonable for it to have asked for an
independent assessor to provide a bespoke valuation for it. But as I said, I dont think there
is enough evidence to support the value they place on the car. Ive also considered Mr Cs
independent engineers report and their valuation of £10,950. I dont find theyve provided
evidence to support this figure or an explanation of how they arrived at it. Furthermore, both
Mr Cs and my research did not find similar cars supporting this value.
Ive taken all the adverts Mr C provided for similar cars into consideration, both previously
and the most recent adverts he has provided. These ranged from £8,495 to £10,000.However, the adverts say the prices are inclusive of shipping and import duties, UK
registration, UK number plates, oil and filter service and other charges. I find these are
uninsured losses- costs the policy doesnt cover. As the policy requires Admiral to pay the
cars market value, I cant reasonably expect it to cover these additional costs. So, I would
have to consider that these costs would need to be deducted from the prices shown in the
adverts.
I also carried out my own research, and I have since carried out a further search and I found
similar cars priced between £7,050 and around £10,000. I accept there may have been
changes in the market, but as I said previously, the valuation of a used car isnt an exact
science, so I must rely on all the information available to me, including Mr Cs adverts. I think
it is also worth pointing out that weve found in many cases the price of second-hand cars 
has increased in the last year due shortages of cars in the market. Taking all the above into
consideration, I think £8,000 is a fair base valuation for his car. Even if Admiral were to rely
solely on the adverts Mr C provided at the time, taking into account that deductions would
need to be made from the prices shown, I think this base valuation is fair.
Mr C doesnt think its reasonable to make a deduction from the cars value because its
imported. He says cars like his attract a premium because it is a European manufactured car
which has been imported from Japan. Even if I were to accept what Mr C says, I can see
the adverts he provided are for cars that are considered fresh imports. Its worth noting that 
at the time of the loss, Mr Cs car would no longer have been considered a newly imported
car or a fresh import. So, wouldnt be of comparable value to the adverts he provided.
I accept the difference between the UK model and Japanese model of Mr Cs car are
minimal, but there are still some differences. Mr C also acknowledges that the differences 
included the in-car system which records the distance travelled in kilometres rather than the 
UK standard of miles. On balance, I think an average consumer is likely to take these 
differences and the fact the car was previously an import into consideration when deciding 
whether to buy it and comparing it against a non-imported car. As such, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Admiral to make a deduction of 10% from its valuation to factor in that the 
car was imported and isnt a standard UK model.
Factoring in this deduction, I think Admiral should therefore increase the valuation of Mr Cs
car to £7,200. It should pay him the difference between this figure and its initial settlement
value of £5,620, less any resulting increase to the salvage value of the car. It should also
pay Mr C 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date it paid him its
original settlement to the date the increase is paid. While this isnt the amount Mr C would
like, I think this value is fair.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision and Admiral didnt make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision on 19 December 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned. I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:Increase its valuation to £7,200. It should pay Mr C the difference between this figure 
and its initial settlement value of £5,620, less any increase to the salvage value of the 
car. 
It should also pay Mr C 8% simple interest per annum on the amount due to him from 
the date it paid him its original settlement to the date the increase is paid.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman