DRN-2399019
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account. And hed like these refunded. 
What happened
Mr H complains that a total of over £5,000 was taken from his Santander account via 
Contactless, Chip and PIN and online transfers on the 3 March 2019. Santander refunded 
some of the transactions but he still has £4,800 outstanding. 
Mr H explains that on the evening of the 2 March 2019 he lost his wallet which included his 
Santander debit card and a debit card from another bank, Ill call M. And his mobile phone as 
well. He identified this on the way home, and attempted to regain his belongings by speaking 
to staff at the train station. Unfortunately his belongings werent found. 
Mr H contacted Santander at just after midday on the 3 March 2019  he explained that he 
was heavily intoxicated which is what led to the delay in him contacting the bank. 
Santander agreed to refund Mr Hs contactless transactions, but they couldnt find any 
evidence for how Mr Hs PIN or online banking details had been compromised. And advised 
that the OTP codes were sent to Mr Hs correct contact details. So they believe that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. 
Mr H also complained to Bank M, who decided to refund some of the transactions. Mr H 
advised Bank M that its possible his PIN was in his wallet. Therefore they decided he was 
liable for some of the transactions due to gross negligence. 
Mr H didnt accept Santanders opinion. So complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. But they concluded based on the 
evidence Mr H most likely authorised the transactions. They explained that although it was 
possible Mr Hs details were compromised as he described, the behaviour of the fraudster 
didnt fit a pattern theyd expect and they thought Mr Hs delay in contacting Santander was 
surprising. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion and he said in summary:
 
Santander confirmed to him that the online banking was accessed via details from
the card itself.  
Even though its unlikely, his online banking details were reset. 
Hes not sure exactly when he lost his wallet and phone. 
He delayed contacting the bank because he was very intoxicated and didnt have his 
phone on him. He also believes that his delay in contacting the bank didnt have an 
impact. 
Hes aware that his account had a large balance left after the fraud had ended, but 
this doesnt change the fact he didnt authorise the disputed transactions. If he hadnt 
contacted Santander then more money would have been spent by the fraudsters. 
He didnt carry out the transactions. 
There are now additional security measures in place at Santander which would have 
prevented the fraud. 
Santander have accepted fraud was committed by refunding the contactless 
transactions. 
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reason. And Ill explain why below. 
Generally, Santander can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN and online 
banking details were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him liable. So I also 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H 
consented to the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
The disputed transactions were carried out via Chip and PIN and Mr Hs online 
banking. Ive considered how a fraudster could have gained access to both Mr Hs 
card and PIN. Mr H explains that he lost his wallet on the evening of the 
2 March 2019 prior to the disputed transactions which occurred on the 3 March 2019. 
I agree its possible for a fraudster to have gained access to this. But what Im unable 
to see a compromise for is Mr Hs PIN. Mr Hs PIN was entered correctly the first 
time, and this means whoever used the card must have known Mr Hs PIN. Mr H 
explained that he didnt write down his PIN  and he hadnt carried out any Chip and 
PIN transactions that evening or since the 25 February 2019. Therefore there was no 
opportunity for a fraudster to overlook his PIN.
 
Ive moved on to consider how a fraudster could have gained access to Mr Hs online 
banking. Mr H explains that he lost his phone at the same time as his wallet, and the 
fraudster must have removed his SIM card, inserted it into a new phone and reset his 
online banking. There is evidence that Mr Hs online banking was reset, so I accept 
that this is a possibility. To reset Mr Hs online banking an OTP code was sent to 
Mr Hs mobile phone and his email address. So theres two things for me to consider 
here. Either Mr Hs phone was accessed and his online banking was reset this way. 
But, Mr H explains his battery was dead and it requires both fingerprint and password 
access. So I think this possibly is implausible. Secondly, as Mr H explains the SIM 
could have been removed and added to a new phone. Santander have explained that 
their systems show a SIM swap didnt happen. However I havent been provided with this evidence. Ive thought about this second possibility  but I find it unlikely. I say 
this because Mr Hs online banking wasnt reset until 11:15am on the 3 March 2019. 
If a fraudster did have the information to gain access to Mr Hs online banking Id 
expect them to do this as quickly as possible. And I have to place some weight  
albeit not a significant amount  on Santander stating a SIM swap didnt occur. 
Mr H explained that he identified he lost his wallet and mobile phone on the evening 
of the 2 March 2019, but he didnt report his card lost  or contact his mobile phone 
provider - until just after midday on the 3 March 2019. Mr H has explained he was 
intoxicated and didnt have access to a phone  but I find it very surprising he didnt 
make contact with Santander or his mobile phone provider sooner.  
Mr H advised he realised hed lost his card on the evening of the 2 March 2019, but 
the first disputed transaction occurs at just before 5am on the morning of the 
3 March 2019. And the high value online transfers totalling £4,500, werent carried 
out until just after 11am on the 3 March 2019. If Mr H had contacted the bank sooner, 
as Id have expected, its highly likely these high value transactions  totalling £4,500 
of the £4,800 hes disputing  wouldnt have occurred. 
I find the behaviour of the alleged fraudster unusual  at the time Mr H reported the 
fraud, on the afternoon of the 3 March 2019, Mr H still had over £10,000 in his 
account. If the fraudsters, as Mr H claims, had access to his online banking Id expect 
them to remove all of his funds as quickly as possible. But this didnt happen. 
The first online transaction is made to Mr Hs account with Bank M. I find it surprising 
that a fraudster would move money from one of Mr Hs accounts to another, when 
the fraudsters had access to his Santander debit card, PIN and mobile phone to 
receive OTP codes. There seems little benefit in a fraudster doing this, when they 
had the capability to transfer out his entire balance to another account.
Mr H made a number of points in response to our investigators view. These include the fact 
that Santander refunded him for the contactless transactions, so clearly accepted the 
transactions as fraud. I understand Mr Hs argument here, but as Santander have decided to 
refund the contactless transactions Im not considering this part of the dispute. What I need 
to consider is whether I think its fair for them to hold Mr H liable for the remaining disputed 
transactions. Despite Mr H advising that he didnt carry them out, based on the reasons Ive 
outlined above I think its more likely on balance he did authorise the transactions. And it 
follows Santander are entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman