DRN-1800665
 
The complaint
F, a company, complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs handling of a Know Your Customer 
(KYC) review.
 
F is represented in this complaint by Mr D, so Ill refer to him directly in my decision.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision, which concerns matters since 
August 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im not satisfied HSBC did enough to reassure F the account could 
remain open. There were issues with the KYC process prior to this complaint. And 
HSBC was also aware of Mr Ds health conditions. But it doesnt seem to have taken 
these factors into account fully when dealing with F here. Additionally, HSBC didnt 
respond when F tried to clarify matters close to the deadline. And although the 
account remained open and F was able to switch accounts, I think HSBCs actions 
overall caused F a great deal of inconvenience. So I think HSBC needs to 
compensate F £500 for the inconvenience caused. 
I think that if HSBC had been clearer in its communications with F, it is more likely 
than not F wouldnt have made the decision to move accounts within the shorter 
timeframe. The evidence Ive seen shows HSBCs letters were unclear, included 
incorrect dates (including deadlines which had already passed), and told F the 
account would be closed unless it got the necessary information. Whilst HSBC did 
eventually confirm the account would remain open, I think that based on Fs previous 
experience, HSBC should have done more to keep it updated for the remainder of 
the KYC process. 
 
HSBC has said it wasnt responsible for F choosing to bank elsewhere and as such 
shouldnt pay for the fees involved as the decision was avoidable. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think HSBCs actions overall were a significant factor in Fs 
decision to move accounts  particularly as it stopped communicating with F nearer 
the November deadline.
On this basis, I conclude Fs actions were reasonable in seeking alternative banking 
facilities. F has provided evidence to explain why it needed to hire a consultant to 
support the account switch. I am persuaded it needed to do this due to the amount of 
work involved. And this was emphasised due to the deadlines imposed by HSBCs 
letters. So I think HSBC needs to reimburse F for this too.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Fs complaint and I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Reimburse the consultants fee of £395;
Pay interest on this amount at an annual rate of 8% simple a year from the date the 
payment was made to the date of settlement;
Pay F £500 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. HSBC Bank UK Plc must give Mr D, on behalf of F, a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
F to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
 

Dan Prevett
Ombudsman