DRN-3434128
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Creative Finance Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty 
was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her.
What happened
Motorkitty provided Miss M with a loan of £1,500 in December 2017. The total amount of
£2,737 including interest and charges was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of 
£152 (all figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss M 
provided Motorkitty with security by way of her car. This meant that if Miss M didnt 
make her loan repayments Motorkitty could potentially recoup its losses through the 
sale of her vehicle.
I understand that around two thirds of this loan was used to repay a previous logbook 
loan from another lender. Miss M didnt meet her repayments from the start. Motorkitty 
recovered and sold her car in May 2018, leaving Miss M with a balance on her account 
which by then included arrears and late payment charges and recovery fees.
Miss M said that Motorkitty was irresponsible to have agreed credit for her because the 
repayments were unaffordable. Miss M also complains that Motorkitty didnt treat her 
fairly when she couldnt meet her repayments, for example it didnt give her time to pay 
the balance outstanding before recovering her car and she was unable to retrieve some 
of her possessions from the car before it was taken. Miss M says that she needed her car 
for work and she ended up losing her job and had to borrow from elsewhere to get by.
Motorkitty says that it carried out the necessary checks before lending to Miss M and that 
its lending decision was fair. It said it had no option but to recover and sell Miss Ms car to 
recoup its losses when she didnt repay the loan.
Miss M referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld because Motorkitty should have seen from 
the information and evidence it had gathered from Miss M that the agreement wasnt 
affordable or sustainable for her. They recommended that Miss M shouldnt repay any 
more than the original capital she borrowed on this loan and that Motorkitty should 
remove any adverse information about it from her credit file. They didnt make a finding on 
the other aspects of Miss Ms complaint because the available information didnt confirm 
the details of what had happened.
Motorkitty didnt agree with this recommendation. Miss M agreed with the investigators 
findings but not entirely with their proposals to put things right for her. She says that 
Motorkitty sold her car for less than it was worth and she would like this point to be 
considered. In addition, Miss M feels that she should be awarded compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused when Motorkitty recovered her car.
The complaint came to me, as ombudsman, to review and resolve. I issued a provisional 
decision on 17 March 2022 setting out my reasons for upholding Miss Ms complaint and my 
proposals for what Motorkitty needed to do to put things right for her. Miss M agreed with my 
conclusions but Motorkitty did not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Motorkitty but having considered the matter 
again, including what it said in response to my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill explain my reasons again in this final 
decision on the matter. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Motorkitty will be familiar with the regulations in 
place at the time so I will summarise its main obligations. Motorkitty needed to check that 
Miss M could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before agreeing each loan. In 
other words, it needed to check that she could meet her repayments out of her usual 
means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or 
other adverse consequences. The necessary checks needed to take into account both the 
nature of the credit (amount, term etc.) and Miss Ms particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that Motorkitty needed to pay due regard to Miss Ms 
interests and treat her fairly. The Consumer Credit (CONC) handbook paragraph 2.2.2G 
gave an example of contravening this requirement as targeting customers with regulated 
credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor 
credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did Motorkitty complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ms application to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did 
Motorkitty make a fair lending decision?
Ive started by looking at the information Motorkitty relied on. This included what Miss M 
said about her finances - she gave her net monthly income as £1,300 and her monthly 
expenditure as less than £900, which would seem to leave enough disposable income to 
meet the loan payments of £152.
Motorkitty also relied on Miss Ms bank statements covering the period from 18 
September to 22 December 2017 and her October 2017 payslip. I think it was right for 
Motorkitty to take steps to verify what Miss M said about her circumstances, given that 
she would need to meet her repayments for 18 months and the consequences of not 
being able to do so could be serious in that she might lose her car.
But this doesnt automatically mean Ive concluded that Motorkitty made a fair lending 
decision. Ive reviewed the information Motorkitty gathered from Miss M and I think that 
the lender ought to have been concerned about inconsistencies in what Miss M said 
about her finances and what it could see on her bank statements. Ive noted that 
Miss Ms wages varied. She was paid £958 in September 2017, £1,304 in October and 
£1,173 in November. Miss M was also in receipt of tax credits of £242 a week, or over 
£1,000 a month, so it seems she had more money coming in than shed said.
However, Ive also noted that Miss M:
was making irregular payments to a logbook lender for example two payments of £20 and £80 in October and one payment of £40 in November;
had most of her direct debits returned each month, including those for 
her car insurance, her tv licence and utility bills;
was making direct debit payments to a debt collector of £10 each month, which 
were also returned;
was borrowing and repaying money from what appears to be friends and family 
each month, for example Miss M repaid over £1,000 net in each of October and 
November 2017 to a family member;
was transferring money to another account in her name, ranging from 
hundreds to over a thousand pounds (for example in September 2017); and
was withdrawing large amounts of cash from her account, for example almost 
£1,500 in December 2017.
I think that Motorkitty should have realised that it didnt have enough information about 
Miss Ms expenses to be able to check whether shed be able to meet her repayments in 
a sustainable manner. It would have been a reasonable response in the circumstances of 
this case to have asked Miss M more about her expenses - the returned direct debits and 
borrowing Motorkitty could see ought to have raised serious concerns about how Miss M 
was managing her money.
Miss M has provided copies of her bank statements for the bank account she was 
transferring money to, along with a copy of her credit file. I am not suggesting this is the 
information Motorkitty should have asked for but I think its reasonable to rely on it as a 
proxy for the information it would likely have found out had it enquired further into Miss Ms 
expenses and any financial difficulties she might have been experiencing.
I can see from these that Miss M was spending the money she transferred into her other 
account on gambling, for example she spent over £500 in the 30 days prior (to 22 
December 2017) across a dozen or more transactions. Miss Ms credit file showed four 
accounts with default dates in the previous six months; missed payments on a guarantor 
loan with payments of almost £300 a month; sustained arrears on telecoms account and a 
current account, and an arrangement to pay on another.
I think its clear from this information that Miss M was in financial difficulty and wasnt likely 
to be able to meet her repayments sustainably. I think Motorkitty would have understood 
this had it carried out proportionate checks and it wouldnt have agreed to lend to her. Ive 
concluded that it was irresponsible to have done so and needs to put things right.
In response to my provisional decision, Motorkitty said that Miss M could easily afford the 
repayments for the loan and that it was not its fault if she chose to do things with her 
money other than paying down her debts. As Ive explained, Motorkitty needed to check 
Miss M would be able to meet her payments sustainably not simply whether they were 
affordable for her on a pounds and pence basis. There were strong indications in the 
information it had that Miss M might not have been able to meet the loan repayments 
without difficulty, which a proportionate check would likely have confirmed. 
Motorkitty also commented that it carries out its affordability analysis on a customers 
current income and not on their past mistakes. Of course it is for Motorkitty to decide how 
to carry out its customer analysis but it needed to take steps to ensure that the information 
it had was complete and correct. In this case, the information it had suggested Miss M had 
current money problems. Had it enquired further into her finances I think it would have 
understood that she was having difficulty managing her existing debts, and so it was likely 
shed struggle to meet repayments on further borrowing. I also considered what happened when Miss M had problems meeting her repayments 
and Motorkitty collected her car. Miss M says that the lender didnt provide her with an 
explanation of her account arrears and wouldnt accept a lump sum payment to allow her 
to keep her car, although it had agreed to this the day before. Miss M says that a family 
member had provided the money to enable her to do this. In addition, Miss M says that 
she wasnt given enough time to remove all her possessions from the car before it was 
collected.
I understand that Miss M managed to recover her car by buying it back at the auction sale 
from Motorkitty with money borrowed from a family member. Motorkitty provided the 
sellers invoice which shows the car was bought for £2,000.
Miss M has been consistent in what shes told us about that day. I dont know what 
conversations she had with Motorkitty after the loan inception and I havent seen any 
customer contact records. Motorkitty says that Miss M didnt make any payments to the 
loan and the only payment came from the sale proceeds. Altogether, I dont have enough 
information to be able to find that Motorkitty treated Miss M unfairly after the loan was 
agreed. I also dont know if Miss M managed to recover any missing items along with her 
car.
However, Ive found that Motorkitty shouldnt have agreed to lend to Miss M. She lost her 
car as a consequence of this unfair lending decision. I think that Miss M suffered distress 
and inconvenience when her car was recovered and she had to borrow money and make 
arrangements to get it back. As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up to 
£750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and 
worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over 
weeks or months. I think that an award in this range would be appropriate here.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Miss M repays the capital she borrowed (£1,500) as shes had the use 
of this. However, I dont think she should be liable for any interest or charges on this 
amount, including any late fees or recovery charges, or have her credit record adversely 
impacted.
As mentioned, Motorkitty recovered and sold Miss Ms car at an auction for £2,000 and 
offset the proceeds of the sale against the account balance. Miss M says that her car 
was worth more than this at the time it was sold. Had Miss M needed to replace her car 
by purchasing one from elsewhere, then I would consider the value or potential value of 
the replacement in my redress. However, in this case I understand that Miss M was able 
to recover her car by paying the auction price for it. Therefore, my proposals to put things 
right for her reflect this value and Motorkitty should consider this £2,000 as a payment 
made towards the loan.
In order to put things right for Miss M, Motorkitty needs to:
a) Consider everything Miss M paid above £1,500 as an overpayment and refund 
these monies to her; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date this complaint is settled; and
c) Pay Miss M an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the 
recovery of her car caused her; and
d) Consider the account settled and remove any adverse information about this 
loan from Miss Ms credit file; ande) Unwind any interest it has in Miss Ms car and return any relevant documents to 
her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Motorkitty to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about Creative 
Finance Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty and it needs to put things right as Ive said.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman