DRN-1766875
The complaint
Miss C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2002.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to Miss C when she applied for a store card in 2002.
The policy cost £1.00 per month for every £100 outstanding on Miss Cs statement each 
month. If Miss C was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment the 
policy could have paid 15% of Miss Cs outstanding balance each month until either the 
balance was cleared, or Miss C returned to work. From what Ive seen it looks like Miss C 
was charged £107.33 in PPI premiums before the policy was cancelled.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Having done so I am upholding Miss Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Miss C information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she 
could decide whether to buy the policy. I dont think AXA made the eligibility criteria for the 
cover clear to Miss C.
I say this as the application form signed by Miss C gives no details of the need for the 
policyholder to be working at least 16 hours per week.
I think this would have made a difference to Miss C as shes told us she was working less 
than 16 hours per week when the policy was sold to her.
In response to the adjudicators findings, AXA questioned Miss C working hours in 2002.
It is unfortunate that the application form completed at the time of the sale has been crossed 
through the sections around employment and Miss Cs status.
But Miss C has been consistent that she was working less than 16 hours in 2002, both in her 
initial complaint to AXA and in the questionnaire she completed for this service. So on 
balance I think it is most likely Miss C was working less than 16 hours at the time of the sale.And I dont think Miss C would have bought the policy if it had been made clear to her she 
would be unable to make a claim of the policy.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Miss C wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss C owed when she closed the 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss C would have owed 
when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should 8% a year. 
If  when AXA works out what Miss C would have owed each month without PPI  Miss C 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss C paid. And it should keep on paying interest until the point when Miss C 
wouldve owed AXA something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give    
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Miss C compensation as set out 
in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman