DRN-2781846
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to tell her it had closed her savings 
account.  
What happened
Mrs L had a bank account with Barclays. Following a period of dormancy Barclays closed it 
in line with its policy for dormant accounts.
Post had been returned to Barclays from Mrs Ls address, so there was a gone away 
marker recorded against the account. This meant Barclays didnt write to Mrs L to tell her it 
was closing the account.  
Mrs L only discovered what had happened when she went to a branch to find out why she 
hadnt received a statement. Barclays said it could take up to twelve weeks to reopen the 
account.
Mrs L complained to Barclays but it didnt uphold her complaint. Barclays considered it had 
handled Mrs Ls account in line with its policies on returned post and dormancy. Mrs L was 
unhappy with Barclays response, so she referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Barclays hadnt been able to 
show which post had been returned to it, to trigger the gone away marker on Mrs Ls 
account. Mrs L visited a Barclays branch at least annually, but the bank hadnt made her 
aware of the marker on her account. The investigator thought it wouldve been reasonable 
for Barclays to have checked with Mrs L that the address records it held for her were correct.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mrs L intended to withdraw money from the account 
when she attended the branch to find out what had happened to her statement. But he 
accepted that there would have been some distress when Mrs L discovered her account was 
closed. The investigator said Barclays should pay £125 compensation to Mrs L.
Mrs L didnt consider the recommended compensation was enough. She said, in summary, 
that she didnt consider Barclays had provided any evidence to support what it had said 
about how it had handled her account. 
She considered it was unacceptable that Barclays couldnt show which mail had been 
returned, causing the gone away marker to be added to her account. Mrs L also said when 
she visited the account in person, Barclays couldve warned her the account would become 
dormant if there was no activity on it. 
The last withdrawal on the account was in 2010, and Barclays policy was for dormant 
accounts to close after six years of inactivity. So Mrs L queried why the account wasnt 
closed until 2019.
Mrs L said discovering her account was closed had caused her considerable distress 
because shed wanted to use some of the money to buy a car. The money was returned to 
her sooner than anticipated, but Mrs L didnt consider this lessened the worry and upset 
shed experienced.
Mrs L asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs Ls strength of feeling that Barclays should be able to prove it received post 
returned from her address  which then triggered the gone away marker on her account. I 
can see why she would want to know exactly what had caused the marker, but I dont 
consider its reasonable to expect the bank to retain that information. 
Our approach to resolving complaints is informal. As Ive said above, where evidence is 
incomplete this means we have to consider whats likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Having reviewed Barclays internal notes for Mrs Ls account, on balance I think its unlikely 
that the bank wouldve added a gone away marker to her account if it hadnt received post 
returned from her address. So I dont consider it was at fault in this respect.
But I agree with the investigator that when Mrs L attended the bank in person, Barclays 
missed opportunities to make her aware of the gone away marker. It seems Mrs L checked 
with Barclays that the address details it held for her were correct, but the marker remained 
on her account. 
So I also agree with the investigator that compensation should be paid in recognition that 
Mrs L should have received notice that her account would be closed.
I dont doubt the upset Mrs L experienced when she found out the account was closed, and 
that access to it may take several weeks. And I accept that the fact the money was returned 
sooner than anticipated doesnt lessen the distress she felt at the time.
But our compensation awards are not designed to punish a business. They acknowledge the 
impact of a banks mistake on the customer, taking account of the overall circumstances. So 
while I understand why Mrs L might consider compensation should be considerably more, 
Im satisfied that the amount recommended is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Barclays has told us Mrs Ls account was transferred to it in 2014. It says this is why it was 
closed in 2019, following a period of dormancy.    
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £125 to Mrs L if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
compensation to Mrs L in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman