DRN-2877618
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complain that they werent aware of the spread on a foreign exchange
transaction with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
What happened
 Mrs G and Mr G were due to receive 195,000 euros in November 2020 as a result of the 
sale of a property in Portugal. They called Barclays for information about the rates for 
converting this into GBP. On 26 November 2020, £171,624.71 was received into their 
account. The funds transfer advice dated 27 November 2020 showed the rate was 1.1362 
 made up of 1.1222 FX Reference Rate, plus FX Margin Percentage 1.25. The 
contacts with Barclays were by Mr G and his son (who I will refer to as A).
Mrs G and Mr G complained. They said they werent aware of the FX Margin Percentage 
and expected to get the number of euros converted at the FX Reference Rate. They said 
that theyd tried to get the information from Barclays but had received confusing advice  
the last communication theyd received said the charge would be £6. Because they didnt 
know there was a FX Margin Percentage (which I will call FX Margin) they were over 
£2,000 worse off. Theyd had to wait for 40 minutes to get through to Barclays 
international team  but they later confirmed to us that this delay wasnt part of their 
complaint.
Barclays said that Mrs and Mr G had spoken to their Premier manager, but the best 
people they should have spoken to were Barclays international team. Theyd been 
provided with the website links which gave information about fees and exchange rates. 
The rate used was the prevailing rate on the day the funds were received  as shown on 
the funds transfer advice. They apologised for the long waiting time they experienced 
when trying to get through to the international team.
Mrs G and Mr G brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said that on 
balance, Barclays had acted reasonably. There had been conflicting advice given by 
Barclays on calls and emails  but their website did say an FX Margin would be applied. 
So, while the service provided by Barclays wasnt very good, they hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mrs G and Mr G asked that their complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
This is a finely balanced decision. In summary, Barclays terms and conditions  and their 
website links - refer to the existence of a FX Margin. So - I dont contest that Barclays 
couldve charged a FX Margin. But I found the communications and explanations provided 
to Mr G and A by Barclays to be confusing  so they put them in the position of not 
understanding what was going to happen. Barclays did follow their processes here  but 
such was the effect of their poor communications, I think this led to an unfair outcome in 
the individual circumstances of the situation.
There were references in this case to the possibility of opening a euro account to receive 
the euros, and also whether Barclays FX Reference rate was different to the rates Mr G 
saw in the newspaper or on the TV  these arent central to this complaint, so I wont go 
into those aspects.
The crux of Mr G and Mr Gs complaint is  did they understand there would be a FX 
Margin applied to the transaction and what would it be? On balance, I dont think they did. I 
will explain my reasoning.
Theres no doubt that Barclays terms and conditions entitle them to apply a FX Margin. At 
page 26 they say Well convert the payment into the currency of your account using an 
exchange rate, made up of a reference exchange rate (which changes to reflect currency 
market movements), to which we may add a margin. You can ask us for an indication of 
the rate at any time, but as the exchange rate changes to reflect currency market 
movements, we wont be able to tell you the actual rate until we receive the payment. You 
can find our current exchange rate by calling us or asking in branch. We may also charge 
for receiving the payment  the charges are set out in the Tariff.
And  Barclays referred A to their website via a link sent to him on 9 November 2020  it 
says The foreign exchange rate for a specific transaction amount is calculated by 
applying an FX margin to the reference exchange rate. If you do not know your FX margin, 
you can find out by calling us or asking in branch, or for Barclays Bank UK PLC customers 
the FX Margin will be available to you at the time of completing your payment. I noted that 
customers are asked to find out about FX margin by asking in branch  which is what Mr 
G and A did.
Ive then looked at the emails between Mr G, A and Barclays, and listened to the calls. 
There were three emails in March 2020  where A asked for general information  and he 
was directed to Barclays international team to find out information. Theres nothing to 
suggest anything more happened  he didnt contact them - so Im not going to look at that 
part of the story.
They important communications took place in November 2020  as the sale of the 
property was coming to completion. Part of the issue that arose was that Mr G and A dealt 
with their Barclays Premier manager  who wasnt well equipped with the knowledge to 
handle their inquiries. On several occasions, he said I dont know, and referred them to 
Barclays international team, or tried to act as a go-between with the international team  
but in trying to help, unfortunately, he only served to confuse Mr G and A.
Its important to set put what happened in the calls and emails between Barclays, Mr G and
A:
On 30 October 2020, A emailed their Premier manager (who I shall call B). He asked 
some time ago we discussed the potential receipt of a wire transfer from Portugal from the 
sale of a property over thereYour advice at the time was that it was fine to provide the 
buyer with Barclays bank account detailsand that, upon receipt of the funds, conversion 
to £ would be done at the prevailing rate of the day (standard rate for everyone irrespective 
of sums involved). Has anything changed please? i.e. re process / access to appropriate 
conversion rates / etc? B gave him a link to a webpage Making an International 
Payment and said We also have a team dedicated to international payments and they 
can be reached directly on But the webpage only talked about making an international 
payment  not receiving money. It was possible to get to receiving money through several 
further links.On 2 November 2020, A asked if they needed to open a euro account  and B said they 
didnt need to, and he emailed You are able to give your existing bank details and the 
funds will be automatically converted upon receipt.
On 6 November 2020  as suggested by B  Mr G called Barclays international team for 
guidance and information. It was a very confusing call and was poorly handled  my 
interpretation of it was that Mr G was inexperienced in dealing with such a transaction and 
clearly needed help. He was left very confused indeed. On the call, the call handler said 
that an FX margin applies to any conversion and this was quoted at either 2.15% or 
1.45% - depending on the amount. She tried to tell Mr G how to work it out. But  the call 
handler flipped between the rate for converting euros to GBP, and vice versa. Mr G wanted 
to understand the rate expressed as GBP to euro  but she talked about euro to GBP. Im 
not saying that was wrong  but it confused Mr G. She then added the FX margin  and 
then subtracted it. At the end of the call, Mr G said so I need to take off the excess margin 
of 2.15%  so there was perhaps a slight awareness of it  but in summary, for me, Mr G 
demonstrated that he didnt have the knowledge or appreciation about what was going to 
happen  and didnt get any clarity from the call handler. And  the tone of the conversation 
was such that I think Barclays shouldve realised that Mr G didnt understand what he was 
being told and done more to explain.
On 7 November 2020, A emailed B again  and this confirmed they didnt properly 
understand  as they thought the FX Margin of circa 2% was on the whole amount: Per 
your suggestion, my father called the Barclays Dept to try and understand the charges for 
the Euro to £ conversion. He got absolutely nowhere. It took 40 minutes for them to answer 
the phone and then he spoke to someone who clearly didnt know what they were talking 
about. Ultimately he was advised that to convert c200k Euros would cost in the region of 
£4k in charges which is absolute nonsense. I need you to connect me with someone senior 
who can help on this please and I dont have much time: I need a conversation on Monday 
please The question we need an answer to is simple: if we convert 200k Euros to £ what 
are the costs involved? We understand that rates move daily, so were trying to determine 
the Barclays spreads. e.g. if the Euro spot rate was hypothetically 1.11 on the day of 
conversion, what spread does Barclays charge over the spot? The call my Father had 
yesterday suggested 2% (=£4k) which is more in keeping with a cash conversion spread.
Please could someone call me on my mobile number below asap.
On 10 November 2020, B emailed A and provided a link to Barclays exchange rates 
website which said The foreign exchange rate for a specific transaction amount is 
calculated by applying an FX margin to the reference exchange rate. If you do not know 
your FX margin, you can find out by calling us or asking in branch, or for Barclays Bank UK 
PLC customers the FX Margin will be available to you at the time of completing your 
payment. He then went onto say the charges appear these would be less than those 
given to your father. He again suggested they call Barclays international.
On 10 November 2020  following the email and having read the linked document  A 
spoke to B. A shows he thinks there is a spread  but wants to know what it is and how it 
works. But he doesnt get any clarity from B. A asks is there a spread over and above (the 
mid market rate)the link says we use mid market ratesis that the rate you get receiving 
or sending?. B says, I dont know. A tries to explain to B what he thinks the spread is  
is it the difference between buying and selling? B says he doesnt know, and he will get 
an answer. B says the charge is £6. He says he will email A.
B (the Premier manager) then called Barclays international team himself  and emailed A 
As promised, I have contacted our International team and they have confirmed the only 
charge for receiving the funds will be £6. I also asked my colleague about the Exchange 
rate that is used and they confirmed the rate used is determined by the bank from which the money is sent. With this in mind youwould need to contact the bank where the 
money is being sent.if you have any further questions regarding this you would need to 
either try speaking with our International Payments Team A then emailed B  that 
cannot be right. The sending bank will be remitting Euros and so they will need to be 
converted by Barclays upon receiptI am out of time for having this properly resolved and 
so I need this complaint dealt with at speed. So  B didnt provide the answers to As 
question about spread. And confused matters by referring to the sending bank and a 
charge of £6.
On 11 November 2020, B emailed A I have attempted this morning to make some further 
enquiries regarding your recent query. I have been informed that a live rate is now used 
when the payment is received or made externally, but we cannot determine what it will be 
until the payment is processed. So again, B didnt give A the clarity he needed.
A then emailed Band tried to crystallise the situation: the advice you and your colleagues 
give changes every time I ask the question. It is really unimpressive and gives no 
confidence to the client whatsoever. Im now proceeding on the basis that the Euro 
payment we receivewill be converted automatically upon receipt at the published rate by 
Barclays on your website via the links you have previously sent me. Without any spreads 
over that quoted rate. And the only charges are the £6 fixed fee youve previously quoted. 
We understand that the prevailing spot rate changes. If this understanding is not correct 
then you need to advise me today as I am out of time In response, on 20 November 
2020, B logged the complaint and said, The only information I have available in relation to 
your query is the links I have already given you or via the phone number for our 
international payments team.
So  while Mr G and A were given a link to the information they needed, they showed they 
didnt understand and were seeking information at every stage  and showed they needed 
help - but unfortunately didnt get clear guidance. What was simply needed was for 
Barclays to tell Mr G and A what they would receive in GBP for their euros (accepting that 
market rates would move). But  they didnt get this. I note that B referred them to 
Barclays international  but equally, as far as Mr G and A were concerned, he 
represented Barclays and shouldve been able to deal with their questions  or, if he 
couldnt  then clearly say he couldnt. As it was, he found himself acting as a go-between, 
with what appears to have been little knowledge. And as a result, Mr G and A were left 
very confused.
There are arguments on both sides on this complaint  but on balance, Im persuaded that 
Barclays couldve done better here. Im not saying that Barclays werent entitled to charge 
the FX Margin  they were. But Ive considered the effect of the inconclusive and 
successive communications by them, and the tone and content of the telephone 
conversation on 6 November 2020. And  Barclays had several chances to resolve 
matters  but didnt. The tone of some of the emails from Mr G and A show the extent of 
distress and inconvenience they suffered.
So, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. And Barclays should pay to G
and Mr G £1,000 for distress and inconvenience. This is approximately half of the FX 
Margin. This award is into the substantial range of payments that we would normally
recommend  but given what happened here, I think this is justified.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mrs G and Mr G accepted my findings. Barclays had no further comments to add.So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs G and Mr G accepted my findings, and Barclays had no further comments, I wont be 
departing from my provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. And so, Barclays 
should do what I also said in the provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays PLC must pay £1,000 to Mrs G and Mr G for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman