DRN-3224881
The complaint
Mr R complains that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim on a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr R had a PPI policy that began in 2007. From 2019 onwards, Covea was the insurer. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the cover, the policy could pay the monthly payments 
dure to his mortgage for up to 12 months if Mr R lost his job or was off work sick for more 
than 30 days.
Mr R worked as a design manager through his own limited company. From 2016 onwards he 
was engaged to work for a construction firm via a recruitment agency. But in April 2020, 
Mr Rs contract was terminated early due to COVID-19. 
Mr R then tried to claim on the policy. The claim was declined. Covea said that as Mr R was 
self-employed, he needed to prove he had involuntarily and permanently ceased trading 
because he couldnt find enough work to meet all his reasonable business and living 
expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue and Customs. It says Mr R told them he 
was only temporarily out of work due to COVID-19 and had a job to go back to once this was 
allowed. It said that cover for the self-employed is for business failure rather than to cover 
short periods of unemployment. And so it says he wasnt unemployed as defined by the 
policy.
I issued my provisional findings on this case on 10 February 2022. I said Id looked at the 
policy terms and conditions, and saw that it defined unemployment as:
Having no paid work or temporary work and having a Jobseekers Agreement with 
the Department for Work and Pensions in the UK. If you are ineligible for a 
Jobseekers Agreement you must be able to provide alternative proof acceptable to 
us that you are actively seeking work.
But the policy imposed additional requirements where the insured was self-employed. Mr R 
was the director and shareholder of a limited company  and could control the affairs of the 
company he worked for. This meant he was self-employed for the purposes of the policy. 
The policy said that:
If you are self-employed and you have involuntarily and permanently ceased trading 
because you could not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and 
living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue & Customs, you will be 
entitled to claim for unemployment benefit.
Later, when the policy explains the requirements for a claim, it says
Before we can pay out a claim we must receive from you the necessary evidence 
and proof to validate your claim. We will only ask for information and proof that is 
reasonably required for the purpose of assessing your claim.
The information required depended on whether the insured was employed or self-employed. 
Where, like Mr R, someone was self-employed, the policy said Covea would require, among 
other things:
evidence that your business has ceased or suspended trading because you could 
not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and living expenses. We 
may require evidence such as that you have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs, bank statements, accounts, or a letter from your accountant with evidence 
that your business was no longer viable, that your business has ceased or 
suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the business;
I said Id read these conditions alongside the Association of British Insurers Consistent 
policy interpretations. Payment protection insurance. Statement of principles for the payment 
protection insurance industry (2013). This set out the minimum principles insurers will 
follow in a range of common claim situations and reflects current claims handling 
practices. It stated that:
Each insurers individual policy wordings may vary but the overriding principles 
contained in this document reflect insurers intent that the customer can be confident 
that their claim will be dealt with consistently regardless of insurer.
This guidance said that where insurers provided cover for the self-employed, claims will be 
accepted if they have involuntarily ceased trading because they could not find enough work 
to meet all their reasonable business and living expenses and have declared this to HM 
Revenue and Customs.
But it went on to say that If a company or business has not ceased to trade then the 
policyholder will be asked to provide alternative evidence of unemployment, which may 
include:
written notice from an accountant that they are not generating revenue through their 
business
evidence that a main contractor has ceased to trade where the policyholder entirely 
relied on being a sub-contractor to that firm.
I then considered what all this meant for Mr R. Looking at the terms and conditions of the 
policy, I could see there might be some tension between the requirement to claim under the 
heading Unemployment cover on the one hand and the evidence required to support a 
claim for unemployment under the heading Your claim. While the policy initially referred to 
the insured having involuntarily and permanently ceased trading, the evidence 
requirements referred to the business having ceased or suspended trading. I thought the 
natural meaning of suspended would include circumstances where a business had stopped 
trading for an indefinite period.
Likewise, while the early requirement stated that the insured needed to declare theyd 
ceased trading to HM Revenue and Customs, the later requirement listed this as just one of 
a number of pieces of evidence that Covea may require. Other evidence included a letter 
from an accountant with evidence that the business is no longer viable, that the business 
has ceased or suspended trading, and that the insured is not receiving an income from the 
business -  which appeared to reflect the ABI consistent policy interpretations where a 
company or business has not ceased to trade. So the policy appeared to envision 
circumstances in which the insured might be able to claim despite not yet having declared 
the cessation of the business to HM Revenue and Customs.But I thought that even if I relied on the terms most favourable to Mr R, I think Mr Rs 
business needed to have involuntarily stopped trading  and hed need evidence he was no 
longer receiving an income from his business. Id thought about what Mr R had said about 
that. Mr R had provided a letter from his recruitment agency confirming he was engaged on 
a freelance basis with a construction firm from June 2016 to April 2020  and that his 
contract was unexpectedly terminated due to COVID-19. So I was satisfied he wasnt able to 
do his job, and this was involuntary.
But it appeared that when he contacted Covea to register the claim, Covea told Mr R hed 
need to suspend or cease trading. Mr R wrote to Covea to say he couldnt do this as he 
needed to continue trading to claim on the governments self-employment income support 
scheme. In fact, company directors were unable to claim on this scheme: Mr R instead 
claimed under the governments job retention scheme. He says this paid him around £400 a 
month, and that the payment covered the period from April until September 2019. Mr R also 
said his company needed to continue trading so he could defer payment of his tax bill.
Based on all of this, I wasnt satisfied that Mr Rs company had ceased trading  and Mr R 
had continued to receive an income from his business. Given Mr R was claiming under the 
job retention scheme, I also thought it was unlikely he could have told HM Revenue and 
Customs hed ceased trading  as that scheme was administered through the pay-as-you-
earn scheme. This meant that Mr R didnt meet the requirements to claim on the policy as a 
self-employed person. And although Mr R says he wouldnt have needed to claim under the 
job retention scheme if the PPI had paid out, hed told us other reasons he couldnt close his 
company. So I wasnt satisfied his business was in a position to cease trading in order to 
allow him to claim on the policy.
Finally, Mr R had said he thought the policy would pay him £3,000 a month. But based on 
what Id seen, the policy had a benefit of up to £550 a month; in fact, his mortgage 
repayments were around £500 a month. £3,000 was instead the maximum cover the insurer 
would provide for this type of policy  but a policy with that level of benefit would have cost 
more.
With all this in mind I didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. I said Id consider any 
further comments I got by 8 March 2022. 
Both Mr R and Covea have confirmed they have received my provisional decision. Mr R 
doesnt agree with my provisional findings but has nothing further to add. Covea hasnt sent 
me anything further to consider. Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr R nor Covea have sent me anything further to consider. I therefore reach the 
same conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
Based on what Ive seen Mr R didnt meet the conditions to claim for unemployment under 
the policy. It follows Im not going to tell Covea to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman