DRN-3186765
The complaint
Ms L says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she had a poor 
credit history when the loans were approved and she struggled to meet the repayments. She 
thinks that Morses shouldve seen this and not lent to her.
 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Ms L between October 
2018 and February 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is 
in the table below. The repayment is the totals that Ms L would repay to Morses. 
loan date taken amount repayment instalments date repaid
1 17/10/2018 £300 £15 33 24/05/2019
2 24/05/2019 £300 £15 33 20/01/2020
3 20/09/2019 £500 £32.50 52 outstanding
4 19/02/2020 £400 £31.50 53 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that the amount Ms L was 
repaying by loan 3 was too high a proportion of her income. And she was likely to struggle 
with the repayments going forward. By loan 4 he thought the lending pattern itself was 
harmful. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the loans looked to be affordable 
given what Ms L declared about her income and expenditure. And whilst Ms L had some 
problems repaying loan 3, these were mostly under control by the time loan 4 was 
advanced. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Ms L didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont make a 
decision about this lending. But these loans were part of the borrowing relationship Ms L had 
with Morses. So, they are something I will think about when considering the other lending 
she took.
Given Ms Ls circumstances, I think its reasonable to say that any further expenditure 
couldve potentially caused Ms L financial difficulty. Ill explain why in relation to loans 3 and 
4.  
The point of sale information shows that Ms L was in rented accommodation, and she says 
she was unemployed. Ms Ls income was around £185 a week. Her expenditure was 
recorded as being about £60 a week. I think its reasonable to describe this
income, and what she was recorded as having left over, as modest. 
And looking at the information Morses had taken from Ms L there are signs of possible 
financial problems. Firstly, the expenditure amounts that Morses recorded for her seem very 
low. Im not sure if, for example, £20 a week on groceries is realistic, even for a single 
person. I think its likely she was spending more than this across a number of categories 
(which would also explain the need to borrow). 
And the credit reference agency information Morses obtained in relation to loan 1 shows that 
Ms L did have some other debts. She may have been making smaller repayments to these, 
but two of the debts were unsatisfied county court judgements. Its not clear what her other 
liabilities were, and the court judgements were from over a year and half ago, but taking all 
of this into account I think its reasonable to say Ms Ls financial situation was likely to be 
precarious.I think the £32.50 she was due to pay to Morses for loans 2 and 3 combined was a high 
amount of her income, especially as its likely she would have further outgoings. Taking all 
what Ive said into account I think the weekly repayments for loans 2 and 3 together meant 
that Ms L was probably paying too much and so Morses shouldnt have approved loan 3.
Morses said that the repayment was low, and it was only a small proportion of Ms Ls 
disposable income. I dont agree with this as its around 18% of her income. And, this isnt 
the only important factor here as Ive outlined above. I think when all of Ms Ls 
circumstances are considered approving loan 3 wasnt responsible.
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 4 and I think the loan history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending was likely to be 
unsustainable. Ms L had now been borrowing for 16 months and shed taken four longer 
term loans over this period. The loan amounts had increased and so had the repayments. 
Ms L had struggled to make the repayments at times. Particularly to loan 3. 
So, I also think Morses was irresponsible to approve loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms L from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms L may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms L would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms L loans 3 and 4.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms L towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms L 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms L having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms L. 
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ls credit file in relation 
to loan 3. The overall pattern of Ms Ls borrowing at loan 4 is adverse, so it should remove 
this loan entirely from Ms Ls credit file. Morses does not have to remove loan 4 from Ms Ls 
credit file until it has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman