DRN-2555848
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) withdrew his loyalty points.
What happened
Mr E had Lloyds credit cards. They were part of the Trustcard loyalty scheme. In October 
2019, Lloyds wrote to its customers to say that Trustcard loyalty points would be earned up 
until 2 December 2019. Thereafter theyd be replaced by 0.5% cashback on purchases. 
Existing points would have to be used by 24 January 2020. 
Mr E complained. He said that six months notice of the changes hadnt been given  as 
required by the scheme. The final redemption date of 24 January 2020 didnt give 
cardholders enough time to cash the points in. And the further 12% cashback offer was too 
short  as it was for only three months. It didnt compensate him for the loss of loyalty points. 
And, the offer coincided with the COVID shopping restrictions and so he couldnt use it.
Lloyds replied. They said that they were wrong not to have given six months notice. Points 
must be redeemed by 24 January 2020, but because of the reduced notice given, they paid 
compensation of £75 and gave Mr E a cashback promotion of 12% on all retail spending 
between 25 January 2020 and 25 April 2020. Mr E told us he received £63.91 in May 2020 
as a result.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
November 2020, he said Lloyds could change the terms of the Trustcard loyalty scheme  
and set an end date for it - but it hadnt given six months notice as it should have. This 
would have given Mr E until the end of April 2020 to redeem his points. Hed asked Lloyds if 
they would extend this time for Mr E, but theyd said no. But as Lloyds had given Mr E the 
benefit of another scheme until then, he thought theyd acted fairly.
Mr E asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E feels strongly about this. He had built up points over a long period of time 
and was given only three months to spend them. So, he effectively lost them. And the 12% 
cashback offer given to him by Lloyds was for three months up to 25 April 2020  which 
coincided with the COVID lockdown restrictions, so shops werent open. He liked to see 
things in shops  rather than shopping entirely online. He said that the value of the new 12% 
cashback wasnt as good as the old scheme  which gave 10% discount. He was also ill 
during the period. 
Lloyds were wrong not to give Mr E six months notice of the withdrawal of the old scheme. 
Its terms and conditions said The Trustcard Plus scheme will continue until we notify you 
otherwise. We will give you at least six months notice before we end Trustcard Plus. The 
notice will tell you how long your points will remain valid. Lloyds had apologised for this. 
They gave Mr E compensation of £75 and an alternative scheme -12% cashback for three 
months up to 25 April 2020.
But, also - Lloyds can make its own commercial decisions on how it prices its products and 
services  we cant tell them what to do there. So, we cant say that it shouldnt have 
withdrawn the old loyalty scheme - and we cant argue with its pricing of the new one.
 But I can decide on whether the 12% cashback offer to Mr E was fair. Mr E has said that it 
wasnt because it didnt recognise the points hes built up - which gave discounts of 10%. But 
- thats not the case here. There was no direct cash equivalent to the points that Mr E had 
earned. The old Trustcard loyalty scheme gave points  which could then be exchanged for 
discount vouchers at certain retailers. The discounts were up to those retailers, and they 
varied from time to time. The Trustcard conditions said All orders for goods or services 
using points will be directly between you and the supplier unless we tell you otherwise before 
you commit yourself. We will not be a party to that contract, though we will try and help 
resolve any problems you have with the delivery or quality of what you buy.  So, its not the 
case that they represented a 10% cash discount. Also, the number of retailers was limited. 
Ive seen the Trustcard guide which listed 15 retailers - whereas the 12% cashback offer 
given to Mr E was on all retail spending. So  the two just cant be compared  and its not 
possible to say that one had more value than the other. 
Mr E says he couldnt benefit from the 12% cashback offer because of the COVID shopping 
restrictions. We looked at his credit card spending  and there was little change in February 
2020 and March 2020 - compared to the months up to then. So, it appears that he did get 
two months benefit from the offer. But Mr Es spending dropped to very little in April 2020  
when the shops were shut. Mr E says he prefers to see products in the shops. But he 
couldve shopped online  this is now an accepted way of buying things for most people. Mr 
E was also ill during the period. While this is very unfortunate  its quite possible he could 
still have shopped online.
I can appreciate where Mr E is coming from and that hes frustrated at what happened  but 
on balance, I think the Lloyds have done all they could have here, and I wont be asking 
them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman