DRN-3301537
The complaint
Miss A complains about the level of service received from American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG), following a claim against her mobile phone insurance. 
What happened
Miss A reported a theft claim to AIG in April 2021. 
Miss A provided the relevant information to AIG to support her claim, which was accepted by 
AIG in May 2021. However, it took until August 2021 for the claim to be settled.  
Miss A says she had to make numerous calls to AIG but couldnt get through to them. She 
also said her bank contacted AIG on her behalf due to the level of service received. A 
complaint was raised due to the delays and level of communication received from AIG. 
AIG responded to the complaint and upheld it. They offered to pay Miss A £160 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. However, AIG says the 
compensation payment wasnt correctly processed on their system, meaning Miss A only 
received £20. 
Miss A paid the policy excess, and a replacement device was sent to her in August 2021. 
Miss A wasnt happy with the way things were handled. She felt AIG took far too long to 
settle the claim and were extremely difficult to contact throughout. Miss A also says she was 
left out of pocket as she had to purchase a replacement device herself, despite having 
insurance in place, otherwise she wouldnt have had a phone for the period the claim was 
running. 
AIG accepted there were delays. They also accepted the £160 compensation payment due 
to Miss A was delayed, so they offered to pay her a further £50 compensation. Miss A 
remained unhappy and approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
agreed the claim took far too long to be settled and Miss A experienced unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience due to the way it was handled. But she felt the compensation 
amount totalling £210 was fair and reasonable to put matters right. 
Miss A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIG says Miss A had difficulties getting through to them during the claim process as their 
phone lines were exceptionally busy. I do note there were other ways Miss A could have got 
in contact with AIG which are set out within the policy, but with that said, this claim took far 
longer than Id consider to be reasonable to be settled. And its clear in my view this caused 
Miss A inconvenience and frustration. 
The claim was reported in April 2021, and despite Miss As proof of purchase information 
being approved in May 2021, the claim ran on until August 2021. When it was finally settled, 
AIG provided Miss A with a replacement device. Therefore, although the claim was finally 
settled correctly which indemnified Miss A, I think the claim could have been settled much 
sooner  potentially in May or June 2021 based on the claim notes Ive seen. 
Miss A says she purchased a replacement device during the claim process  rather than 
being left without a phone for that period. She says shes now out of pocket because of this. 
I appreciate why Miss A feels AIG should compensate her in respect of this, but given the 
claim has now been settled, and Miss A has received a replacement device, Im satisfied 
AIG have put Miss A back into the position she should have been in  which is the purpose 
of the policy. 
Miss A may still have the device she purchased during the claim and has the replacement 
device provided to her under the policy when AIG settled the claim. So, I dont think AIG 
must do anything further here in respect of putting Miss A back into her pre-loss position.  
Ive also considered the compensation amount paid by AIG  totalling £210. Initially, £160 
was offered, but only £20 was paid to Miss A because of a processing error caused by AIG. 
Overall, I agree this has been a frustrating and distressing time for Miss A, due to the way 
AIG handled things. Ive considered the impact this had on Miss A. And having done so, Im 
satisfied £210 compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate to recognise the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her. So, I wont be directing AIG to do anything further. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss A. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with AIG  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman