DRN-4105883
The complaint
Mr T complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his claim on 
his motor warranty policy. 
What happened
Mr T had a motor warranty that was underwritten by Red Sands. In October 2022 he made a 
claim after noticing a number of faults with his car. He said there was an electrical fault with 
the door, a problem with the LCD display on his multimedia system and a problem with the 
steering control unit. 
Red Sands declined the claim as it said the warranty only covered parts listed in the policy 
document and none of the effected parts were listed. 
Mr T was unhappy with this. He said he had cover for the multimedia system, and the LED 
display was part of this. And he said the fault with the door handle related to the door switch 
which was listed as covered, so he didnt think it was fair that Red Sands declined this. He 
made a complaint. 
Red Sands didnt uphold his complaint. In its response it said as the door switch was on the 
door handle rather than the pillar of the car door then it wouldnt be covered by the warranty. 
And while the multimedia system itself was covered the LED display was separate and 
wasnt listed as an inclusion so would fall outside of warranty cover. It also maintained its 
position on the four wheel control unit.
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. While he 
agreed the wheel control unit and LED display werent covered under the policy he didnt 
think Red Sands had acted fairly by declining to cover the issue with the door switch. He 
said that door switch is listed as one of the inclusions in the policy and therefore thought 
Red Sands should cover this aspect. 
Red Sands didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It said that the issue was with the 
door handle and not the door switch and as the door handle isnt a part thats covered by the 
warranty, it had acted fairly by declining the claim. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts warranty covers repair and replacement of specific parts of the vehicle that are listed 
in the warranty document. Mr T has made a claim for three different parts. 
The steering unit isnt in the list of inclusions so its fair that Red Sands have said this wont 
be covered.
In regards to the multimedia unit, the additional cover Mr T has purchased lists the inclusions 
as follows:
Stereo hi-fi video cassette recorder, LCD screens, media control panel, auxiliary power input 
socket, 12 volt power supply (excluding remote control unit and headphone). Factory fitted 
CD player with multi changer, satellite navigation system, games machine and DVD player 
(excluding discs)
The fault was found with the head up display. As this isnt listed in the inclusions for the 
multimedia cover, Im also satisfied Red Sands acted fairly by declining this element of the 
claim.
The final issue was with the door switch on the door handle. Under the inclusions for 
electrical systems in the policy door switch is listed. However Red Sands has said that 
because the door switch was in the door handle rather than the pillar of the door, it wouldnt 
be covered in this instance. 
Ive considered this and I dont think its acted fairly. While door switches may usually be 
located in the pillar, it isnt clear from the policy wording that cover would only extend where 
this is the case. So it would be reasonable for Mr T to assume that a door switch in any 
location would be covered. I therefore dont think its fair for Red Sands to exclude this part 
of the claim.
Red sands have since said the issue that was reported was actually with the door handle 
and not the door switch, and as it was the handle that was replaced, this isnt listed in the 
policy and wouldnt be covered.
Ive looked at the invoice Mr T has provided for the required repairs from the vehicle 
manufacturer. In relation to issue with the door handle it states:
Door switch
5121090 A
Electrics, door switch is discharging
the cars battery to the point
Carried out test plan AT6100_END_L6 energy
diagnosis found faults stored for drivers door
electronics.
From this, its clear that the issue related to the door switch. The policy states as follows:
This POLICY provides cover, from day one and is designed to pay towards the costs of the 
repair or replacement of the parts, listed under Parts Covered
Here, in order to repair the issue with the door switch, the door handle needed to be 
replaced. But as the policy covers the cost of the repair of listed parts and the door switch is 
listed, then I think its fair that the replacement door handle is covered under the warranty. 
For these reasons I require Red Sands to accept Mr Ts claim for the fault with the door 
switch and settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to accept Mr Ts claim for the door switch and settle it in line with 
the remaining warranty terms and conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman