DRN-3721679
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited shared private information with her daughter.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs S has an account with Hoist that is subject to a payment arrangement. Mrs S payments
have been maintained in line with the agreed arrangement.
In February 2022 Hoist sent a text message to Mrs S daughter to say it needed to review 
her payment plan. The text message warned that if Mrs S didnt get in touch within a month 
her existing plan would be cancelled and collections activities resume.
Mrs S complained and Hoist explained it had found the number in question when 
completing a tracing exercise. The number was removed from Hoists systems and it 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. Hoist initially offered £25 but later 
increased the award to £75.
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs S complaint and said they thought Hoists 
offer was a fair way to resolve the issues raised. Mrs S asked to appeal and told us Hoist 
had breached data protection rules. Mrs S also said she didnt think Hoists offer fairly 
reflected what had happened. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting the background out above as all parties broadly agree concerning 
the overall timeline. Hoist says it carried out a tracing exercise at the start of 2022 and 
found the number in question via a third party business. Theres some suggestion that 
similarities between Mrs S and her daughters details caused an incorrect match. Although 
Mrs S rejects this view. As a result, Mrs S daughters phone number was added to Hoists 
systems.
I can understand why Mrs S is upset. It doesnt appear Hoist sought to verify whether the 
new number provided was correct before sending private and sensitive information about 
Mrs S account and ongoing payment arrangement to it. Given Mrs S had at no time 
used the number Hoist obtained, I can understand why she was so upset that private 
and specific details concerning her debt was shared.
Hoist has told us the number has been removed. I need to decide how to fairly resolve 
Mrs S complaint.
I agree with Mrs S that £75 isnt a fair reflection of the level of upset caused. Mrs S is quite 
rightly upset that private information about her financial situation was shared with a third 
party. As the information related to a debt that Mrs S had agreed a payment arrangement 
for, I can understand she mayve wanted to keep this private. And the information was 
shared with Mrs S daughter, not a stranger. Given the close relationship and 
embarrassment caused, Im satisfied Mrs S was very distressed indeed when she found 
out about Hoists mistake.
Mrs S has provided some details of compensation examples shes found online where 
businesses have breached data protection rules. I want to explain that our approach to 
compensation is focused on the impact to a consumer, we cant fine or punish a business. In 
this case, I think a payment of £250 more fairly reflects the level of distress and
inconvenience caused to Mrs S. So I intend to increase the total award from £75 to £250.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Hoist responded in detail. In summary it gave a 
detailed background concerning how its agents complete a trace of a customer. And Hoist 
provided details of the information it obtained from its agents and explained the process 
followed. In addition, Hoists case handler didnt agree it had sent confidential information to 
the mobile number it found that amounted to a data protection breach. 
Mrs S responded to say she accepted the terms of the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, Hoist responded and provided a detailed explanation of how it traces 
customers, the information it obtains and the fact it uses a third party. I want to ensure all 
parties that Ive read the full detail of Hoists response. And I understand Hoist had a 
legitimate reason to try and trace Mrs S so it could talk to her. But, I havent been persuaded 
to change my view. 
Hoists response says theres been no breach of the Data Protection Act. But my provisional 
decision doesnt mention a breach. We make decisions on a fair and reasonable basis. So 
my provisional decision was made on the basis of whether information sent in Hoists text 
message meant Mrs S was treated unfairly. I make no comment on the Data Protection Act. 
I remain of the view that the text message contained information about Mrs S that, when 
shared with her daughter, led to a significant level of distress and inconvenience. The text 
message included Mrs S first name, an account number, a request for contact, reference to 
whether an ongoing payment arrangement remained affordable and a warning that failure to 
make contact would lead to the plan being cancelled. The text message also gave Hoists 
website and phone number. The text message contained Mrs S first name and was sent to 
her daughter. I remain satisfied it was possible for Mrs S daughter to work out she had a 
debt with Hoist that is subject to a payment arrangement.
In Mrs S case, I am satisfied that the text message sent caused a significant level of distress 
and inconvenience. Ive considered Hoists full response but havent been persuaded to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs S complaint 
should be upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay her 
£250 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman