DRN-2632437
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the settlement Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (Liberty) offered 
when she claimed for malicious damage under her landlords buildings insurance.
What happened
Without her knowledge, Miss Os tenants used her property to grow cannabis. They left the 
property in a damaged state, so she claimed under her landlords insurance. To begin with, 
Liberty declined her claim because the policy excluded damage caused in the course of 
illegal activity. Miss O complained and, on review, Liberty decided to cover the damage 
which wasnt related to growing cannabis. 
Miss O remained unhappy with the settlement and asked for £5000, which was her policy 
maximum. She also thought Liberty should cover her lost rental income. Liberty increased its 
offer, including the equivalent of one months rent, but Miss O thought it should pay her claim 
in full.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Liberty made a fair offer for the 
damage unrelated to the cannabis, and that it declined the remainder of the claim in line with 
the policy.
Miss O didnt agree. She thought there was more damage unrelated to the cannabis which 
Liberty should pay for, and she asked again for further consideration of the loss of rent. Miss 
O asked for at least another £2000, but ideally her full claim of around £11,000.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator, and Ill explain things in a little more detail here.
Liberty initially declined Miss Os claim under the following exclusion:
General Exclusions applicable to the whole of this insurance
k) Illegal Activities Exclusion
We will not pay for loss or damage caused as a result of the property being used for illegal 
activities.
Unfortunately for Miss O, the tenants rented her property to grow cannabis, so any damage 
they caused was as a result of the property being used for illegal activities. The term is set 
out in Miss Os policy documents, and its clear the damage isnt an insured peril, so I think it 
was fair that Liberty declined her claim in full for the reason it gave.
That said, Liberty did agree to pay for some of the damage. It did so because Miss Os policy 
covered her for malicious damage, and Liberty agreed that some of the damage wasnt 
necessarily directly related to that caused in order to grow cannabis. Ive looked at the 
elements of damage Liberty excluded from cover and those which it agreed to pay, and I 
cant say its offer of £2,500 is unfair. Thats because Liberty was entitled to decline the full 
claim under the illegal activity exclusion, so any offer to pay under the malicious damage 
cover is in Miss Os favour.
I know Miss O doesnt think Libertys offer is enough and shed like Liberty to pay around 
£11,000. I dont agree. As explained above, Liberty was entitled to decline the full claim, but, 
even if the damage wasnt due to illegal activity, Miss Os policy sets a limit for malicious 
damage. So, the most Liberty wouldve needed to pay was £5,000 less her policy excess.
We will not pay:
a) for loss or damage in excess of £5,000 which your lodgers or tenants have causedIf 
you claim for such loss under Section One and Two, we will not pay more than £5,000 in 
total
b)the first £100 of every claim
For these reasons, I wont be asking Liberty to increase its payment towards the malicious 
damage.
Miss O asked Liberty to pay for loss of rent (LOR) while she restored her property to a 
habitable condition. Liberty agreed to pay for one month, but Miss O thinks it shouldve paid 
for at least two months. Its not clear whether Miss O has a separate policy specifically 
insuring her for LOR. The evidence suggests that she does and if thats the case, she may 
wish to consider claiming under that policy if she hasnt already done so. However, it doesnt 
affect my consideration of her claim for LOR here because her policy with Liberty provides 
some limited cover.
Buildings - Extra benefits
What is covered
This section of the insurance also covers:
c.
loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover
while the buildings cannot be lived in following loss or damage which is covered under 
Section One
This means the policy will cover Miss O for LOR if she has a valid claim under Section One 
of her policy. Liberty paid some of the claim under the malicious damage clause in Section 
One, deciding that it was reasonable to cover the damage it couldnt directly link to the 
cannabis activity. It appears that Liberty applied the same basis to its decision for the LOR, 
which was to pay for half of Miss Os LOR claim. As Ive said, I dont think Miss Os claim is 
valid because the damage was caused due to illegal activity, so, logically, I dont think her 
LOR claim is valid either. 
Further to this, the policy clearly sets out the following:
What is not covered
We will not pay:
f) for loss of rent arising from any part of the house that is used for anything other than 
domestic accommodationTheres no dispute that the tenants used the property to grow cannabis, so I think its fair to 
conclude that it was being used for something other than domestic accommodation. 
Therefore, anything Liberty did pay is in Miss Os favour and I wont be asking it to increase 
the payment.
As a final point, Liberty offered Miss O an additional £500 towards the malicious damage, 
which she declined at the time. I understand Miss O doesnt recall Liberty making that offer 
but it says its still available to her. As I dont think Liberty was obliged to pay any of the 
claim, I think its offer is more than fair, so I wont be requiring it. However, if Miss O decides 
to accept the offer of an additional £500, she should contact Liberty directly. 
In summary, I think Liberty was entitled to decline Miss Os claim under the illegal activity 
clause in her policy for both the damage and LOR. Although Liberty decided to pay for the 
damage which may have been incidental to the cannabis related damage, I think it did so as 
a gesture of goodwill rather than a contractual obligation and I see no reason to ask it to pay 
any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman