DRN-2888334
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the way Vitality Health Limited handled her claim. 
What happened
Ms S had a private medical insurance policy underwritten by Vitality. 
On 30 March 2020 Ms S contacted Vitality and explained that she needed to have a 
consultation for a painful lump on her breast. She explained her GP had advised to wait two 
weeks before she could get an appointment, but given her reported symptoms she wanted to 
be seen sooner. Vitality told Ms S shed need a GP referral to proceed with treatment and 
advised she could contact the Vitality GP via their app. 
Vitality took Ms S through how to use the app, but it didnt work due to technical difficulties, 
so the adviser provided Ms S with contact numbers for a few doctors to call herself. 
Vitality didnt hear anything further from Ms S until a few weeks later, in April 2020, when 
they received an invoice for costs for the treatment Ms S underwent. Vitality said Ms S is 
liable to pay 40% of the costs as treatment at the facility she attended wasnt listed on her 
policy. 
Unhappy the claim wouldnt be paid in full, Ms S raised a complaint. She didnt think it was 
fair Vitality had applied the restriction of a hospital list on to her claim because she was 
following medical advice and other hospitals were unavailable. 
Vitality explained Ms S didnt notify them that she had obtained a referral from her GP and 
was proceeding with treatment. So they didnt have the opportunity to confirm and discuss 
coverage for treatment. As Ms S had proceeded with treatment without their authorisation, 
Vitality confirmed the claim would only be partially met in line with her plan terms and 
conditions.
Ms S referred her complaint to this service to consider. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint as he thought Vitality had acted in line with the 
policy terms when declining to cover the full cost of the claim because the facility wasnt 
listed on Ms S policy and they hadnt provided any authorisation prior to the treatment. 
Ms S didnt agree. In summary she said: 
There wasnt any availability at the hospitals listed on her policy.
She wasnt supposed to travel distances because we were in a lockdown. 
The facility she received treatment at is covered by Vitality. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Vitality has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The plan terms and conditions set out what a policyholder should do when needing to make 
a claim:
3.2 YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES
These are conditions of the insurance youll need to follow in order to make a claim.
 Cover under this plan requires you to first obtain a referral from a GP. Once you have
received your referral, you must contact us to obtain authorisation for your claim before
starting treatment. You can log in to the Member Zone to start your claim, or you can
call us to discuss your claim.
Ms S had logged into Vitalitys app and was attempting to use it to book a face to face GP 
appointment, but was having difficulties so she called Vitality. Ive listened to this call and the 
adviser was helpful trying to talk Ms S through how to book a face to face GP appointment 
through the app. He talks her through step by step, but unfortunately there appears to be a 
technical problem. Vitality have explained this problem was due to a higher than expected 
number of customers trying to use the online service, which I think is reasonable in March 
2020. 
The adviser places Ms S on hold whilst he goes to seek further advice. He comes back and 
provides a few contact numbers for GPs for Ms S to contact who are offering face to face 
services. I note they discuss one specific location that Ms S confirms she would be able to 
travel to. So, Im not persuaded by Ms S argument that she thought she wasnt supposed to 
travel for medical appointments. 
The call then disconnects after Ms S is placed on hold again. Ms S receives a referral from 
the GP for treatment, but she doesnt get back in contact with Vitality to discuss her next 
steps.  
There are a number of sections of Ms S policy that explain why it is important for patients to 
ensure that the hospital they use is part of their hospital list:  
 IMPORTANT NOTES
The purpose of this plan is to provide you with cover for eligible treatment, once youve
been referred for further treatment by a GP or dental practitioner, that
is given by a consultant, therapist or complementary medicine practitioner
recognized by us and takes place at a hospital or other facility that is eligible
under your plan
WHICH HOSPITALS ARE ELIGIBLE UNDER YOUR PLAN?
 If you have one of our hospital list options, you should only go to a hospital on your
chosen list, as youre only covered in full for treatment at those hospitals. If you go to a
hospital thats not on your list, then youll have to pay 40% of the costs of your treatment
(excluding your consultants' fees).
 Some consultants can arrange for diagnostic tests and scans to be carried out in anumber of different hospitals. It is important that you check that the hospital your consultant 
suggests you attend is eligible on your plan.
Ms S treatment was carried out at a facility that isnt on the approved hospital list for her 
particular policy, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to only pay 60% of the 
treatment in line with their policy terms. 
Im satisfied Vitality made it clear in the terms of the policy that Ms S would need to check 
with Vitality that the hospital is covered by her plan before proceeding with any treatment. 
And if not, she would be required to pay some of the costs. 
Ms S hadnt informed Vitality she intended to attend that facility and she didnt receive 
authorisation for treatment there. I can understand why Ms S was focused on receiving 
treatment during such an uncertain time and that shes said she was following the doctors 
instructions. However, as she expected the insurer to pay for the treatment, I think its 
reasonable to expect she shouldve contacted them to check it would be covered. 
Had Ms S gone back to Vitality to inform them of her scheduled consultation and then again 
when she was made aware she required treatment, I think its most likely she wouldve been 
advised on whether or not the facility was covered under her policy. 
I note Ms S concerns that she wouldnt have been able to receive treatment anywhere else 
during this period because of lockdown. But I cant see any evidence that Vitality told her 
that. When Ms S initially called Vitality, they provided her with a list of doctors still doing face 
to face appointments, so I dont think its reasonable Ms S went on to assume there wouldnt 
be availability at her listed facilities for treatment. And if Ms S had concerns, she could have 
contacted Vitality to discuss the options under her plan. 
Im satisfied if Ms S had made Vitality aware she had received a GP referral, they wouldve 
helped her to find a facility on their list to receive treatment. If none of the listed hospitals 
under Ms Ss policy were available, I think its most likely Vitality wouldve explored other 
options to ensure Ms S received the necessary treatment - such as possibly looking at 
hospitals not usually on their approved lists. 
As explained above, Ms S had previously had difficulties using the Vitality app to book her 
initial face to face GP appointment. Although I appreciate that wouldve been frustrating for 
Ms S at an already worrying time for her, the case handler on the phone was helpful in trying 
to progress things for her in an alternative way manually. So, I think its reasonable to expect 
that she could have called back or contacted Vitality by email if she was still having trouble 
using the app. 
Ms S has said the facility where she received treatment is covered by Vitality. However, as 
the investigator has already explained, Vitality provide several different plans which each 
have varying levels of cover and benefit (including hospital coverage). The plan chosen by 
Ms S was the Vitality Health Hospital select plan which only included the Countrywide 
hospital list. So coverage for the hospital in question wasnt included in Ms S specific plan. 
In summary, it wouldnt be fair to ask Vitality to cover the full cost of the treatment because 
Ms S didnt make them aware shed received her GP referral and required further treatment. 
And as the treatment took place at a hospital that wasnt on Ms S policy list, she is required 
to pay 40% of the costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman