DRN-4039212
Complaint
Mr F says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly removed his overdraft, closed his account 
and recorded a default on his credit file.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Fs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Mr F got in contact with Lloyds, as far back as November 2021, to 
explain that he was having difficulty paying the interest that he was being charged for using 
his overdraft. Once a lender is told, or it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its 
regulatory obligations.  
Lloyds placed a number of temporary 30-day holds on interest being added to his overdraft  
in order to provide Mr F with the breathing space to find a more sustainable method of 
repaying his overdraft. Im satisfied that this was a reasonable first step to what Mr F had 
told Lloyds about his circumstances from November 2021 onwards.   
However, these interest holds were only ever meant to be temporary measure and Lloyds 
eventually required Mr F to complete an income and expenditure assessment with it. The 
results of this showed Lloyds that Mr Fs expenditure exceeded his expenditure by over 
£250. 
I know that Mr F disputes this figure and that he says other assessments carried out showed 
different amounts. This may be the case. But Ive not seen anything to indicate that any of 
the income and expenditure assessments carried out showed that Mr F had sufficient 
disposable income to be able to repay his overdraft, plus any interest accrued, within a 
reasonable period of time. 
As a result of Mr Fs negative disposable income, Lloyds decided to begin corrective action 
in relation to removing the overdraft as it was entitled to do and I would expect it to. And 
Lloyds did this by issuing a formal demand notice, requiring repayment of the overdraft, to 
Mr F in May 2022. 
I do sympathise with what Mr F has told us. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have. 
But by May 2022, it was clear that any difficulty repaying his overdraft wasnt temporary. And 
I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Lloyds to continue 
ignoring Mr Fs obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. 
So by this stage, I would have expected Lloyds to have taken corrective action in the way 
that it did. After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse 
information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain 
protections in relation to the overdraft debt. And asking Lloyds to remove the default and 
reopen Mr Fs account, when Mr F didnt repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, 
would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Fs interests or that of any future lender.
Furthermore, I realise that Lloyds decision will have been very disappointing to Mr F and I 
can appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. But 
despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Lloyds it had to continue offering   
him a current account in circumstances where Mr Fs overdraft defaulting led to it deciding it 
no longer wished to provide him with one. 
So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to begin the process of taking corrective 
action in relation to Mr Fs overdraft when it did in May 2017. As this is the case and Mr F 
wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or reach a suitable arrangement to repay 
what was owed within a reasonable period of time, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to 
withdraw Mr Fs overdraft, close his account and record any adverse information it did. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr F. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman