DRN-2104792
The complaint
Mr F complains that J D Williams & Company Limited breached its contract with him by 
declining his order after hed placed it. Hes also complained that its damaged his credit file 
which will cause him issues in the future.
What happened
Mr F opened an online shopping account with J D Williams in June 2019. He applied for the 
account which would allow him to purchase items with credit and pay at a later date. On 
12 July 2019, Mr F ordered some items from J D Williams using his account. On 15 July 
2019 J D Williams cancelled this order as Mr F didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr F complained about this and said it was a breach of contract. He said that by him placing 
the order using his account J D Williams had entered into an agreement, so the cancellation 
was a breach of this agreement. Mr F also later found that he had an open line of credit on 
his credit file for J D Williams even though it had decided not to lend to him.
J D Williams said it was entitled to cancel the agreement as it said all orders were subject to 
a financial assessment. It acknowledged there was a mistake on Mr Fs credit file and 
immediately contacted credit reference agencies to put this right.
Our investigator felt J D Williams had done enough. He explained the terms and conditions 
of the account said a contract was only formed after the order is accepted and the goods 
dispatched. As this hadnt happened, J D Williams hadnt breached a contract. The 
investigator also said that J D Williams updated Mr Fs credit file, and theres no evidence to 
show the error had impacted Mr F. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F disagreed. He felt as his credit file showed an open line of credit then there was a 
contract and so it was breached when J D Williams declined his order. He also said that any 
line of credit that wasnt used will come up in his vetting checks for his employment, so he 
believes this error would impact him going forward. Mr F wants financial compensation to put 
things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Order cancellation
Mr F has said he feels the cancellation of his order was a breach of contract. But I dont think 
J D Williams has done anything wrong here. Ive looked at the screen Mr F wouldve seen 
when he applied for an account, and the terms applicable. Its mentioned in both that any 
credit is subject to status and will depend on an assessment of the applicants financial 
circumstances. Specifically in the terms of the account it says:
All orders are subject to our acceptance. The contract between you and us is formed only 
when we accept the order and the goods are despatched to you. Finally, all our products are 
subject to availability.
I think its clear that until goods are despatched there isnt a contract to supply what Mr F 
ordered. J D Williams undertook an assessment on Mr Fs financial circumstances at the 
point he placed the order. It was decided his circumstances didnt meet J D Williams lending 
criteria so it cancelled the order and didnt dispatch the goods. So I dont think its done 
anything wrong in doing so, and I cant agree theres been a breach of contract.
Credit file
Mr F applied for credit from J D Williams, so it follows that there would be a search on his 
credit file. But as the credit was declined, there shouldnt have been an open line of credit. I 
can see Mr F pointed this out to J D Williams and it took immediate action to put this right. It 
took the account off his credit file. Mr F has shown us a copy of his credit file and the credit 
account doesnt appear on there. So, Im satisfied the error has been corrected.
Mr F has said in his line of work hes subject to various vetting checks. And hes expressed 
that he feels this will affect these going forward. But Mr F has confirmed hes in employment, 
and theres been no detriment caused so far by this error. And from the evidence Ive seen, 
theres no record of Mr F having a credit account with J D Williams on his credit file. So I 
cant say that the error, which was corrected in September 2019, has caused Mr F any 
problems with his employment.
Notification of cancellation
Mr F has said he wasnt told about his order being cancelled. I can understand this wouldve 
been frustrating but from what I can see, Mr F was sent an email to notify him that the order 
was cancelled. J D Williams has sent us screenshots to show an email was sent to Mr F on 
15 July 2019, three days after he placed his order, to say that it had been cancelled. This 
was because he didnt meet the lending criteria.
In summary, the only error that Ive seen J D Williams are responsible for is putting an open 
credit account on Mr Fs credit file. However, Im satisfied it took steps to put this right as 
soon as it was notified. As I cant see this mistake caused Mr F any detriment, and it was 
corrected quickly, I think J D Williams as done enough here to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman