DRN-2981723
The complaint
Mr S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible
manner.
  
What happened
 Mr S was given a loan by ELL that was due to be repaid over 24 months. He
borrowed £2,700 in September 2019. The monthly instalment amounts for this loan are 
£283.69 and he would be due to repay £6808.56 in total. Mr S has an amount left 
outstanding to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
ELL gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed to the loan. It asked him for
details of his income and his normal housing costs. It received details of Mr Ss employment 
contract and used this to calculate how much his monthly income would be. It then used 
some industry statistical data to estimate the rest of Mr Ss normal expenditure. It checked 
Mr Ss credit file to determine how much he was paying to other lenders. And it asked Mr S 
to provide copies of his bank statements so it could verify the information hed supplied.
Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He was agreeing to
make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So, I think it is right that ELL wanted to
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ss financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim.
Im currently minded to think that its checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
ELL gathered from Mr S to check whether I agree it was appropriate for him to be given
this loan.
Mr S told ELL that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate all of his short-term loan debt. At 
the time of requesting a loan with ELL, Mr S was paying £526.68 in creditors repayments. 
And this monthly amount was leaving Mr S with minus disposable income or in other words, 
he didnt have enough monthly income to pay all of his commitments and calculated living 
expenses. 
Mr S had told ELL that he was looking to consolidate all of his existing short-term debt. And 
it was reasonable for ELL to accept Mr Ss explanation of what he intended to do with the 
loan, and the additional disposable income that would give to him. The additional monthly 
disposable income would instead give him a small surplus of income after he had paid 
everything. Mr Ss bank statements also didnt show any indications of financial problems 
such as multiple other loans not included in the proposed consolidation, or repeated unpaid 
transactions. There was nothing also to indicate that Mr S had had wider problems with 
consolidations in the past either, that would have led ELL to have concerns that this one 
wouldnt work or that the repayments would not be sustainable for Mr S. 
So, overall, I currently dont think ELLs proportionate checks would have suggested that Mr 
S would have problems repaying this loan. So, I dont think ELL was wrong to give the loan 
to Mr S.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Both ELL and Mr S did not respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add, I dont 
see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being 
the case, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman