DRN-1709268
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mrs C acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in 
October 2016. She asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement in September 
2019 as she had acquired another car. After she made this request, but before the 
car was collected, she noticed a knocking noise and took the car to a garage for 
investigation. She was told the engine needed to be stripped and the crankshaft 
replaced and was given a cost estimate of around £10,000. 
Mrs C raised a complaint with BMWFS saying the issue shouldnt have happened 
given the cars age and mileage. BMWFS didnt uphold her complaint as it said there 
wasnt enough evidence to say the faults were present at the point of supply.
Mrs C paid for the repairs and continued with the VT. Because she doesnt think the 
car shouldve experienced such serious issues at this time, she wants BMWFS to 
refund her repair costs.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought, on balance, that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable.
BMWFS didnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
Mrs C acquired a used car through a HPA with BMWFS. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), BMWFS can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable 
person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. 
In this case, the car was around three years old and had been driven around 21,000 
miles at the point of acquisition. Mrs C was then able to drive the car for around three 
years and cover over 20,000 miles before the issues arose. 
When considering satisfactory quality, several factors can be taken into account. One 
consideration is whether the car was sufficiently durable. While it is clear Mrs C had 
reasonable use of the car - as the issues werent raised until three years after 
acquisition - I have considered whether the issues Mrs Cs car experienced were 
reasonable given its age and mileage.
The car was repaired following BMWFS rejection of Mrs Cs complaint and so further 
investigation into the issues isnt possible. The only investigation evidence available 
is from the initial investigation Mrs C had carried out. This confirmed the knocking 
noise and explained the causes of this. There appeared to be a thorough 
investigation into the issue and the report says, In our opinion the failure of the 
subject parts are not commensurate with a vehicle of this age and mileage. In a 
follow up email from the investigating garage it again confirmed that the issues 
wouldnt be expected on a car of Mrs Cs age and mileage. I think this evidence 
raises concerns about the durability of the parts, and (given the fundamental nature 
of the parts that failed) the overall durability of the car. 
BMWFS was provided with the investigation results before it issued its final 
response. It didnt carry out any further inspection to assess whether the parts were 
sufficiently durable but instead said the evidence wasnt enough to uphold the 
complaint. I do not agree with this. I think that the comments in the investigation 
suggested the car wasnt sufficiently durable and without further evidence to the 
contrary I find, on balance, the evidence suggests the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mrs C hadnt maintained the car as required. 
There has been no evidence provided to suggest that Mrs C had done anything that 
could have contributed to the issue with the car.
Therefore, on balance, I find it more likely than not that the issues that caused the 
engine failure were due to the parts not being sufficiently durable and because of this 
I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality.
Because of the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should refund Mrs C the £9,766.71 cost of the repair plus 8% interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman