DRN-3993066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of 
their claim following an escape of water, under their home buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs C discovered water leaking from an upstairs bathroom. This 
caused significant damage to their home. They contacted RSA to make a claim under their 
policy, which it accepted. 
RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs C to explain the process. The first step was to allow the property to 
dry out completely. A contractor was appointed to oversee this. Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
explore the possibility of appointing their own contractor to complete the repairs. RSA 
provided a schedule of works (SOW) in August 2021 along with a settlement offer. Mr and 
Mrs C decided to continue with RSAs appointed contractors. 
RSA says there were delays whilst Mr and Mrs C chose materials. They confirmed their 
choice in mid-January 2022. The repairs were planned to begin in mid-March. RSA says the 
materials chosen by Mr and Mrs C exceeded the budget provided in its SOW. Also, that they 
were in discussion with its contractor over private works. RSA says Mr and Mrs C told the 
contractors not to begin work whilst these issues were ongoing.
Mr and Mrs C obtained quotes from local contractors at the beginning of April 2022. The 
quotes were for around £60,000 and £112,000. It was agreed that a further SOW would be 
obtained by RSA. This was provided to Mr and Mrs C in late April. They confirmed the 
settlement offer was too low to appoint their own contractors and they would continue with 
RSAs appointed repairers. The contractor surveyed the work toward the end of May, and a 
meeting was held with Mr and Mrs C in mid-June. 
There was some dispute around the materials and type of fitting relating to flooring and wall 
tiles through July 2022. Work began in mid-August. Mr and Mrs C raised concerns with the 
quality of the work. Particularly about the standard of the plastering in the kitchen. The 
contractor ceased work in early September. Mr and Mrs C say they had to pay for wall tiles 
themselves, due to delays on RSAs part. This was to avoid paying a higher price. There 
was disagreement about whether all areas of wall tiles were covered, as Mr and Mrs C 
wanted to make changes in the bathroom. 
A new contractor was appointed around the beginning of October 2022 and a meeting was 
held with Mr and Mrs C at the end of the month. The work was agreed to begin in the second 
half of November with the majority to be completed before Christmas.
Mr and Mrs C submitted a formal complaint to RSA in September 2022. In its response RSA 
says the settlement offer it made was correct. But it acknowledged communication hadnt 
been of a good standard, including from the agents it appointed. RSA also acknowledges 
delays due to substandard work, and a ten-week lead time to appoint a different contractor. 
This impacted on the time taken to complete the repairs. It paid Mr and Mrs C £400 to 
compensate for the impact this had on them.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this was fair. They refer to the disruption caused by the delay in 
completing the repairs, as well as the stress, anxiety, and inconvenience this caused. Mrs C 
was pregnant whilst this was ongoing, which made matters worse. They say the cost of the 
claim is well in excess of the settlement offer RSA first made. Had a more accurate costing 
been provided initially, they say a better-informed decision couldve been made as to 
whether to appoint their own contractor. 
Mr and Mrs C say because such a significant part of their home couldnt be used for a long 
time, RSA should pay compensation based on the monthly rental value of their property. 
Because they didnt accept RSAs findings Mr and Mrs C asked our service to consider the 
matter. Our investigator upheld their complaint. She says RSA didnt handle the claim well. 
This resulted in delays and made a stressful situation worse. Particularly as Mrs C was 
pregnant. Our investigator thought an additional £750 in compensation represented a fair 
outcome. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators findings. They asked for their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I dont think RSAs 
compensation payment was fair given the issues described. But I do think the amount our 
investigator suggested is reasonable. This means I wont be requiring a higher payment. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C. But I will explain why I think 
my decision is fair. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs Cs home was damaged. This mustve been a very distressing time for 
them. Particularly given the extent of the damage and the time taken to complete the repairs. 
Some degree of disruption and inconvenience is unavoidable in these circumstances. But 
we expect RSA to handle claims effectively to avoid unnecessary delays and inconvenience. 
This is what my focus is on here. 
RSA has provided detailed records that show the contacts between all parties. This 
documents the progress of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. I can see that drying work was required 
before any repairs could begin. RSA has provided a report from the specialist drying 
company it used. I can see the drying works began shortly after Mr and Mrs C registered 
their claim. The report provided shows the property was confirmed to be dry at the beginning 
of June 2021. The repairs could begin from this date.  
The records show Mr and Mrs C were unable to get in touch with their appointed contact at 
RSA for a considerable period toward the end of May and into June 2021. The notes indicate 
this was because their contact was ill and not at work for around six weeks. It doesnt appear 
that this was explained to Mr and Mrs C.
Ive seen the SOW RSA sent to Mr and Mrs C toward the end of August 2021. They 
responded to say it appeared to cover the required repairs. A settlement payment of around 
£20,000 was offered at this time. As discussed, Mr and Mrs C decided to remain with RSAs 
appointed repairer, which they confirmed in the early part of September. This is because the 
contractors they approached couldnt do the work for the settlement payment offered. I can see that RSA contacted Mr and Mrs C on a number of occasions regarding their choice 
of materials. They confirmed their choices in the latter part of January 2022. 
Mr and Mrs C explain that they spoke with RSAs contractor and were told to select materials 
and it would organise the refit once choices were made. They say they often sought to clarify 
budgets but to no avail. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs comments. But having read the SOW costing provided by 
RSA - this includes confirmation of the allowable material costs.  
Works were planned to commence in mid-March 2022. The records show the materials 
chosen by Mr and Mrs C didnt meet the limit specified in the SOW. There was a discussion 
around this, and Mr C advised he would obtain a quote locally. The notes also show Mr and 
Mrs C werent happy with the cost of private work RSAs contractor had confirmed. It was at 
the beginning of April that Mr C said hed received verbal quotes for the work. Its clear the 
quotes were considerably higher than the costing set out in RSAs SOW. It was at this time 
that RSA agreed for the work to be rescoped and an updated SOW produced. This was 
provided at the end of April. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs C informed RSA they would have to continue with its contractor. 
This was confirmed at the start of May 2022. It wasnt until mid-August that work began. 
From the records there were ongoing discussions through July and August as to whether 
wall tiles were included as part of the scope. RSA says this is because Mr and Mrs C wanted 
to include a different bath. This involved additional work not a like-for-like replacement of 
what was in place before the damage occurred. It was also identified that the wall tiles Mr 
and Mrs C bought were a different shape to the tiles in previously in place. RSA notes state 
that this would result in more wastage and therefore more costs. 
Discussions took place regarding the type and installation method of some of the 
replacement flooring. I can see RSA highlighted that the flooring Mr and Mrs C chose was 
more expensive than the cost set out in the SOW. They also requested that this be laid in a 
herringbone pattern  RSAs contractors advised this entailed more work than had been 
scoped for based on the pre-existing floor.
Mr and Mrs C have provided photos of the defective plaster applied by RSAs contractor in 
August 2022. The work was inspected and found not to be up to the required standard. This 
point isnt in dispute. I can also see the marks Mr and Mrs C have shown on their ceramic 
hob, as a result of the plastering work. The records state a breakdown in communication 
had occurred between Mr and Mrs C and the contractor. I think it was reasonable that a 
different contractor was appointed as a result of this. 
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs comments that the work was agreed to begin earlier, at the 
start of August 2022. They say confirmation of flooring material for one sitting room shouldnt 
have delayed the work progressing in the kitchen or bathrooms.   
Unfortunately, due to the need to appoint a new contractor as a result of the defective work, 
this meant the repairs didnt recommence until mid-November 2022. This was due to the 
availability of the chosen contractor. In these circumstances the decision to appoint a new 
contractor appears reasonable. Although the defective work wasnt carried out by RSA 
directly, it is responsible for the actions of its contractor. This resulted in around a ten-week 
delay in repairs being carried out. 
Ive thought carefully about the timeline of events. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Cs comments 
that the repairs took a very long time to commence. The loss event occurred in April 2021, 
but work didnt begin until August 2022, which was over 16 months later. There was a period of around two months for drying work to be completed. But the overall time to carry out the 
repairs appears excessive. 
From when Mr and Mrs C were provided with the first SOW, they took some time to consider 
whether to appoint their own contractor. Once they had agreed that RSAs repairer was to be 
used, it took around four months before they confirmed their material choices. This delayed 
progression of the claim. There was a further delay when the planned start date in mid-
March 2022 was put on hold by Mr and Mrs C. This was due to materials exceeding the 
costs set out in the SOW and the need to resolve this. Time was then needed for Mr and Mrs 
C to approach local contractors again, to see what the work would cost. 
From what Ive seen I cant say that RSA was responsible for this delay. Or the subsequent 
decision by Mr and Mrs C to obtain further quotes. Their quotes were again higher than 
RSAs contractor could complete the work for, and this took some time to arrange. RSA then 
had to provide a further SOW. After this Mr and Mrs C again agreed to continue with RSAs 
contractor. 
There were further discussions around materials and private works. I dont think this 
prevented works from starting in all areas of the property. But the delay caused by the poor-
quality plastering and appointment of a different contractor was RSAs responsibility.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Cs view that their ability to appoint their own contractor was 
impeded by RSAs initial costings being lower than the eventual cost of the repairs. I 
understand their frustration, the overall cost did increase throughout the period of the claim. 
However, extensive repairs over three floors of the property were required. I think it 
reasonable to expect some additional work and costs would become apparent during the 
repairs in these circumstances. 
I can see from Mr and Mrs Cs policy terms that RSA will offer to repair or replace using its 
preferred supplier. If a cash settlement is agreed as an alternative this wont normally 
exceed what it would pay its preferred supplier. 
Generally speaking, an insurer can benefit from lower costs using a network of preferred 
contractors. This is as a result of economies of scale given the volume of work an insurer will 
require. This will often mean they can arrange repairs at a cheaper cost than an individual 
can using local contractors. The cost of the repairs did increase during the claim. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for RSA to base its settlement payments on its SOW costings, 
which is in line with its policy terms.          
Having considered all of this I think the time taken to complete the repairs has been 
excessive. As discussed, RSA must take responsibility for the delays that occurred including 
those created by the contractors it appointed. Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr 
and Mrs C. Their home was in a state of disrepair for a long period, which affected their 
everyday day life, causing inconvenience and distress. Mrs C was pregnant during this 
period, which added to the distress.    
RSA concedes the communication provided by its contractor wasnt to the expected 
standard. Based on the information Ive seen I think this is a fair assessment. Overall, I think 
Mr and Mrs C had a poor experience as a result of RSAs claim handling. I dont think the 
payment it offered in compensation adequately addresses this. I agree with our investigator 
that a further payment should be provided and that £750 is fair in these circumstances. 
I note Mr and Mrs Cs comments that a large part of their home was affected by the damage 
caused. They have requested a significantly larger payment in compensation, using the 
rental value of their home as a benchmark for this over the period of the repairs. Although Im sorry about the inconvenience and distress theyve been caused, I wont be asking RSA 
to provide a payment on this basis. I understand they will be disappointed. But Im satisfied 
the compensation Ive set out is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
should:
pay Mr and Mrs C an additional £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman