DRN-2815941
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has applied end of contract charges for damages to his car 
following the voluntary termination of his hire purchase agreement.  
What happened
 In April 2016, Mr H acquired a brand-new car which he financed through a 48 month hire 
purchase agreement with MBFS. The cash price of the car was over £47,600.
In September 2019, he decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement and he returned the 
car. As part of their return process, MBFS inspected and appraised the car in line with their 
vehicle return standards and they said damage was found. In summary, they said there was 
damage to all four wheels, dent to a door, scratch to a lamp and the exterior of the car 
wasnt clean, this amounted to £751.50, which Mr H was required to pay. Mr H was unhappy 
with this as he felt the car had been returned in a reasonable condition.
He complained to MBFS. They maintained the car was inspected as part of their return 
standards as highlighted in the terms of the agreement. They agreed to waive the cleaning 
fee (£10) and remove the charge for the lamp (£191.50) as they were not marked on the 
inspection. However they said Mr H was required to pay for the remaining damages which 
amounted to £550. In response, Mr H agreed to pay £230 for the damage to the two front 
wheels however he refused to pay for the damage to the rear wheels and the dent to the 
door. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr H referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed the damage to the car exceeded fair 
wear and tear and it was reasonable for MBFS to charge for the damage for the dent, the 
wheels and for the unsatisfactory paint on the QTR panel. They also said Mr H should pay 
for replacing the V5 document. 
Mr H disagreed. He said in the event of a voluntary termination of an agreement, the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 says the car should be returned in a reasonable condition and 
this takes precedence over MBFSs return standards. In his opinion, the minor dent to the 
door and minor scuffing to the two rear wheels were reasonable given he had the car for 
over three years. He also said the V5 document had already been returned. 
In April 2021, I issued a provisional decision and said I intended to partially uphold the 
complaint:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to partially 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.
As mentioned above, MBFS has already agreed to remove the fees related to the cleaning 
and the damage to the lamp. So I must determine whether it was fair and reasonable for 
them to charge for the remaining damage, that is, the dent to the door and to the wheels. As 
there is no evidence Mr H was charged for the QTR panel and V5 document, Ive not 
considered these when reviewing the complaint.
I note Mr Hs comments that MBFSs return standards shouldnt take precedence over the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974). While I accept the CCA 1974 is relevant, MBFSs 
return standards are also relevant as it outlines out what is reasonable wear and tear and 
this was set out in the hire purchase agreement which Mr H agreed to when it was taken out 
in April 2016. 
There is a term in Mr Hs hire purchase agreement which explains if the car is retuned, it 
should be in good and clean condition. If the car hasnt been looked after properly and 
MBFS suffer a loss as a result, the consumer will have to compensate them. 
The terms go on to say:
Damage - You will maintain the vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the 
attached Vehicle Return Standards which form part of this agreement You will find a 
copy of the Vehicle Returns Standards in your welcome pack.
On this basis, the agreement allows MBFS to apply end of contract charges if Mr Hs car 
doesnt meet their return standards. While MBFSs return standards are a key consideration, 
Ive also considered the guidance of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). It is used industry wide to assess damage when cars have been returned as part 
of the hire purchase agreement.
Mr H has noted that there was a three week delay and an additional 100 miles travelled by 
the car after it was collected from him. I have no information about this but my role is to 
consider what is most likely to have happened. Having considered the report taken on the 
day the car was returned, I can see there was damage reported and this was subsequently 
charged for, and Mr H signed this report. On balance, I believe the damage was present 
when the car was returned and before it was appraised. In my opinion, its unlikely the 
damage was made worse to the point it went from being non-chargeable to chargeable 
during the three weeks until it was appraised. 
Damage to the wheels
The vehicle appraisal report indicates that all four alloy wheels were damaged. MBFS has 
also provided a video and photographs of the car which Ive considered. However not all of 
the evidence is clear to allow me to determine the nature and extent of the damage. For 
example, I would expect to see close up pictures of the damage with a ruler or measuring 
tool next to it to show the approximate size but this isnt shown in the photographs. 
Based on the photographs of the front wheels, and the number of scuff marks around each 
one and their approximate total size, I accept there is quite a bit of damage and this damage 
is beyond what MBFS and BVLRA consider to be reasonable wear and tear. So Im satisfied 
MBFS were entitled to charge for the damage to the front wheels. I understand Mr H has 
already paid £230 for it.
However in relation to the rear wheels, the video and photographs arent clear enough to 
enable me to identify the damage. For example, in the rear right wheel, its unclear whether 
there are scuff marks or whether its simply dirt. I note the report says the condition of the 
cars exterior was dirty when it was appraised. There is no exact indication of the damage 
being claimed for nor a ruler showing the size. Given MBFS are trying to enforce these end 
of contract damage charges, I would expect them to produce more persuasive evidence to show the damage to the rear wheels is beyond reasonable wear and tear. But in this case, 
Im not satisfied theyve done so.
Damage to the right front door
The appraisal report says the dent to the right front door is between 50 to 100mm in size. 
MBFSs standards say a dent up to 13mm in diameter is acceptable, the BVLRA says up to 
10mm. Having considered the video and photographs and the presence of the ruler showing 
the approximate size of it, I believe the dent is above these acceptable measurements and 
MBFS can charge for it as being beyond reasonable wear and tear.
Conclusion
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the damage to the front wheels and right hand 
door is beyond reasonable wear and tear and falls below the standards as set out by 
MBFSs return standards and the BVLRA guidance. Therefore I believe it was fair for MBFS 
to charge Mr H for them. However Im not persuaded the evidence provided to show damage 
to the rear wheels is sufficient, so I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge for the condition of 
the rear wheels.
Response to the provisional decision
Both parties were invited to respond to my provisional decision. Mr H asked for clarification 
as to where the dent was on the door as he said it wasnt clear from the photos. He said 
there was a very small pinprick dent caused by somebody opening their door against the 
car. He said he believed this was within MBFS return standards. Mr H was provided with a 
copy of the inspection report and I advised I had relied on the pictures, video and the 
collection report. 
MBFS didnt agree with the findings and said the images were clear and showed multiple 
areas of damage to the wheels. They said the images show where the edges of the wheel 
arent clear lines, they are jagged which indicate damage. Based on the pictures of the rear 
wheels from the inspection, they provided markers of the damage they were referring to. 
They also said the car was cleaned as it was dirty on the original inspection so if there was 
dirt its because it had sat in the damage. They said the damage to the front wheels was 
more severe so its easier to see. They maintained damage to all four tyres were outside of 
their return standards and those of the BVLRA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reviewed what MBFS has said and the pictures provided. However Im still not 
persuaded I can reasonably conclude the damage to the rear wheels is beyond reasonable 
wear and tear. Based on the pictures and video taken from the inspection and the report of 
when the car was collected from Mr H, all three show damage to the door and Im satisfied 
the dent is beyond reasonable wear and tear. Overall, I remain of the same opinion that     
Mr Hs complaint should be partially upheld and for the same reasons.   
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Hs complaint.Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited are entitled to charge for the damage to the 
front wheels (£115 per wheel) and damage to the right front door (£90), however, they cant 
charge for the damage to the rear wheels meaning these fees should be removed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman