DRN-4332207
The complaint
Mr M has complained about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
Mr M ordered and acquired a new car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in 
September 2022. The car cost around £65,940. The agreement was for £75,150 with 47 
monthly payments of £690 and an optional final repayment of £28,098.
He said that within an hour of collecting the car he noticed that it didnt have Adaptive Cruise 
Control (ACC). He said hed made it clear to the supplying dealer that he wanted the new car 
to have the same specification as his previous car. He said he had always stipulated that 
adaptive cruise control and memorable seats were the two items he needed in a car. He said 
that the dealer had told him the only thing missing from the new one car compared to his old 
car was the heated steering wheel.
He said he wanted to return the car as he felt it had been mis-sold to him. He said the dealer 
told him to keep the car and they would sort it.
Mr M had discussed several cars with the dealer in the period January 2022 to September 
2022. Hed been sent videos and specifications which hed discussed with the dealer. On 23 
August 2022 Mr M messaged the dealer confirming Its a yes for the car. He asked about 
service, tyres, and wheels. And in a follow up message he specifically asked for the visibility 
pack, and automatic boot opening. 
He told BMWFS he believed the wording for the feature had changed since his previous car, 
and this meant he was unaware the cruise control feature was different. He told them the 
specification sheet wasnt given to him or explained to him. He told them he believed the 
driver assistance package now becoming driver assistance pro had caused the confusion 
and resulted in the mis-sale.
BMWFS said the dealer confirmed the car had cruise control but was never advertised as 
having adaptive cruise control. The dealer said Mr M had visited the showroom and 
purchased the car after viewing it in the dealership. It said that it had no recollection of Mr M 
specifically requesting adaptive cruise control. It said that earlier models had Adaptive 
Cruise Control with the Driver Assistance pack, but in later models like the one Mr M had 
now acquired, only models with Driver Assistance pro had this option.
It said that it did go through the full specification with Mr M before he agreed to buy it.
BMWFS said that they had reviewed the manufacturers website, the new vehicle invoice for 
Mr Ms car, and their online systems that listed everything included on the car theyd 
supplied to Mr M. They also discussed the complaint with the supplying dealer.
They said they found no evidence that adaptive cruise control was an option that was 
available on the car theyd supplied to him, so they didnt agree that the car had been mis-
sold.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no 
evidence BMWFS misrepresented the features of the car at the point of supply.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. But I want to assure Mr 
M and BMWFS that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, 
its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Mr M acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
I think section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. This provision has the 
effect of deeming the supplying dealer to be the agent of BMWFS in any antecedent 
negotiations. So BMWFS is responsible for the negotiations the supplying dealer carried out 
direct with Mr M before he entered into the agreement.
I need to consider whether or not there has been a misrepresentation: that is where a false 
statement of fact has been given, and that statement induced Mr M to buy that car.
Mr M has supplied an email exchange he had with a dealer in 2018. This references active 
cruise control and Mr M says it shows he has always been clear about his requirement for 
the car to have active cruise control. But I dont think this is relevant as it relates to a 
different car from a different year, and specifications and needs change over time.
In an email exchange in June 2022, after the dealer sends Mr M a video link to a car, and 
the full specification, Mr M asks the dealer to highlight anything thats not in the car which I 
have now if you can. Lumbar support is not in, correct?. He doesnt mention adaptive or 
active cruise control. It looks like the dealer never responded to his request to highlight 
differences in specification.
The dealer did send Mr M a personalised overview of the car the day before he collected it. 
This included a link to the manufacturers brochure, and highlighted the features and function 
in the model.
And on 6 September 2022 Mr M asked the dealer to provide him with a copy of the car 
specification. This is after he has collected the car and realised it didnt appear to have 
adaptive cruise control. In this email he describes that feature as a must, and a deal 
breaker
Ive seen the car order form presented to Mr M when he collected the car. It lists a number of 
options and standard options. There is no mention of adaptive or active cruise control. But it 
does include cruise control  speed limiting function (LIM button).
This form is signed by Mr M. So Im satisfied he was provided with key information about the 
car before he left the dealership. It appears to me that he had the opportunity at this time to 
ask about the full functionality of the cruise control feature on this car. I appreciate that Mr M 
said he wasnt given hard copies of the paperwork, and that he had to sign the documents 
on an electronic device. But Im still satisfied he was provided with the full list of features, 
and had sufficient opportunity to ask about what hes later described as a deal breaker.
The evidence is incomplete. I cant say for certain what exactly was discussed between Mr 
M and the dealer. But Ive not been shown sufficient evidence that Mr M specifically 
requested the adaptive cruise control feature in any correspondence with the dealer, 
including the messages sent between January 2022 and August 2022, or before he left the 
dealership with the car on 6 September 2022. Hes discussed specifications on a number of 
occasions, and hes asked about a number of features and options, including for example, 
the visibility pack. But I cant see any exchange where hes specifically asked for the cruise control feature he described. Ive quoted other examples above of issues he raised and 
questions hes asked, and these show that he never mentioned adaptive cruise control as a 
must, prior to acquiring the car.
And critically Ive seen nothing to suggest that the dealer confirmed the car did have the 
feature he said he was looking for. 
I should also point out that even if I were to find on balance he was misled about the 
adaptive cruise control feature, Id only have grounds to direct BMWFS to allow rejection (for 
that issue at least). That would still leave him in the position that the dealer offered: with the 
cancellation of this agreement, and a new agreement being necessary on a different model 
at a potentially higher price given the market changes in that time.
Im sorry to hear Mr M is unhappy with the car. I dont want him to think Ive discounted his 
testimony  I havent. I have to bear in mind that hes given his version of events, and the 
dealer and BMWFS have given another version. 
Where the accounts conflict, as some of them do here, its helpful to look at what else is 
available. Ive looked at the documentary evidence including the agreement, specification 
list, and text messages. After viewing those I dont think there was a false statement of fact. 
So Ive found there was no misrepresentation of the car by BMWFS or the dealer.
While I sympathise with Mr M, Ive not seen enough to give me the grounds to direct 
BMWFS to allow him to reject the car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman