DRN-3695997
The complaint
A limited company Ill call V has complained that QBE UK Limited trading as QBE unfairly 
turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it incurred increased costs of 
working during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr P has brought the complaint on Vs behalf.
What happened
V held a business interruption insurance policy with QBE. It is an IT and telephony company. 
When lockdown restrictions were first introduced, V closed its offices and provided its staff 
with new equipment to enable them to work from home. It made a claim to QBE in May 2020 
for the additional costs it had incurred in buying the equipment.
In January 2021 QBE told V that its claim had been accepted in principle. It asked V to 
provide management accounts in support of the claim. 
In June 2021 it told V that the claim wasnt covered after all. It referred V to the two sections 
of the policy that could be relevant. The first covered business interruption losses caused by 
a notifiable disease but the policy definition of notifiable disease didnt include Covid-19. The 
other was for losses caused by the prevention of access to the premises as a result of the 
advice of the government or local authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life or 
property. QBE said this didnt apply as V hadnt been required to close its premises.
V complained about this decision and the service it had received from QBE. QBE didnt 
change its decision on the claim but acknowledged that aspects of the claims service should 
have been better.
V referred its complaint to this service. Our investigator thought QBE had acted fairly and in 
line with the policy terms when declining the claim. But she thought QBE should reimburse 
Vs accountancy fees for producing the management accounts together with interest on 
those fees.
As V didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Vs business.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy which 
might be relevant to Vs claim in turn.
Vs policy covers business interruption caused by:
The occurrence of 
c) Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease within a 1 mile radius
Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease is defined as:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, 
Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, 
Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have been in 
existence at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of 
diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the 
circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Vs policy is not like this  it sets out a 
defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the 
policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I 
dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering any new diseases just because they are 
notifiable diseases. 
Another part of the policy covers loss arising from:
Prevention of access to The Premises due to the actions or advice of a government or local 
authority due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property.
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 set out 
which businesses were required to close for the emergency period. The businesses 
required to close by the regulations were largely those where members of the public 
might attend. Significantly, businesses that operated from offices, with little in the way of 
public interaction, were not specifically required to close. 
In a test case brought by the Financial Conduct Authority (The Financial Conduct 
Authority v Arch insurance (UK) Limited and others [2020] EWHC 2448 ) the High Court 
discussed whether these businesses (referred to as Category 5 businesses) had 
suffered a prevention of access to their premises. Lord Justice Flaux said at paragraph 
335:
Category 5 consists of businesses not listed in the 26 March Regulations such as 
manufacturing, accountants, lawyers, recruitment agencies and construction. These 
businesses were not ordered to close and were thus permitted to remain open. We agree 
 that it cannot be said that there was a prevention of access  in relation to any of 
those businesses. It is nothing to the point that clients or customers did not visit the 
offices of their accountant, lawyer or financial adviser because of the restrictions on 
movement imposed by Regulation 6 of the 26 March Regulations and conducted their 
business by Zoom or the like or by telephone. The offices were not required to close and 
at most there was an impediment or hindrance on the use of the premises, nothing which 
amounted to a prevention of access. To the extent that professional firms such as 
solicitors and accountants told their staff to work from home and not come into the office, 
that was due to the government advice to work from home where possible and due to the general concerns about the pandemic, not due to any actions or advice of government 
preventing access to the relevant premises.
When the test case went to the Supreme Court, the court said at paragraph 151:
A prevention means stopping something from happening or making an intended act 
impossible and is different from mere hindrance.
At paragraph 154 the Supreme Court went on to say:
Whilst we accept that it is possible for regulation 6 to result in a prevention of access, we 
consider that such cases are likely to be rareAs the court below stressed, a prevention 
needs to be established; hindrance does not suffice.
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would have likely had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But it 
was a reasonable excuse for someone to travel to work where it was not reasonably 
practical for that person to work from home.
So, while access might well have been hindered, I dont think there was a prevention of 
access. I think QBE treated V fairly in declining the claim under this part of the policy. 
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to V. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QBE to pay its claim.
Ive also looked at how QBE handled Vs claim. Although it said the claim had been 
accepted in principle, it also said that this was subject to validation. I appreciate it must have 
been very disappointing for V to find that the claim was later declined but QBE never gave 
any indication that the claim would definitely be paid. 
However I do think there was a failing on the part of QBE in asking for management 
accounts when these werent relevant to the claim  if the claim had been accepted, it would 
only have needed evidence of the additional costs incurred by V in equipping its staff to 
work from home. V has supplied a copy of the invoice from its account which we have 
forwarded to QBE. The costs were £660 in total.
It's not the role of this service to penalise financial businesses. Where we uphold a 
complaint, our role is to put complainants back in the position they would have been in if the 
issue complained about hadnt happened. In this case it is to put V back in the position it 
would have been in if it hadnt had to incur unnecessary accountancy fees. As a result of 
this V lost the use of funds that it would otherwise have had. To put this right QBE should 
pay interest on the amount of the fees at a rate of 8% simple a year.
Putting things right
To put things right I think QBE should reimburse V for its accountancy costs of £660 and pay 
V interest on such costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require QBE UK Limited 
to:
reimburse V for its accountancy costs of £660 if it has not already done so; andpay V interest on the accountancy costs of £660 from the date on which such costs were 
paid by V until the date of settlement. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman