DRN-1301161
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with their insurers Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas).  They 
declined their claim for accidental damage under their home buildings and contents 
insurance.  Mr and Mrs C would like the insurers to settle the claim as Ageas had previously 
agreed to do.      
What happened
In August 2018, Mr and Mrs C made a claim for damage caused to their ceiling at their 
home.  They contacted their insurers Ageas and reported the claim on the basis of storm 
damage. Ageas did not agree that the damage was caused by a storm. But as Mr and Mrs C 
had accidental cover, Ageas said they could claim for the internal damage to their walls, as 
well as damage to contents.  It said they could not claim for the damage to the ceiling or 
roof.  
 
Following a series of phone calls between Mrs C and Ageas agent, it was agreed by the 
agent that Mr and Mrs C could obtain estimates for the damaged items including a carpet.  
Mrs C provided a list and photos evidencing the damage.  The agent agreed that the list was 
fine.   The agent gave Mrs C permission for the work to be done and indicated that on 
completion Ageas would pay the invoices.  
 
The work was completed and the invoices submitted for payment.  It was at this time that 
Ageas declined the claim stating that it had made an error.  Ageas said that the internal 
damage was caused by wear and tear meaning it was not covered under the accidental 
damage extension to the policy.   As Ageas had previously agreed to pay for the carpet, it 
said it would still pay for this.  It offered Mr and Mrs C £50 compensation, for its error for not 
letting them know sooner that the claim would not be covered.   Mr and Mrs C were upset 
and took the complaint to our service.  
 
Our investigator upheld the complaint concluding that Ageas had acted unfairly by rejecting 
the claim on the basis of wear and tear without having obtained an independent assessor to 
confirm this.  She recommended that Ageas should reassess Mr and Mrs Cs claim.   Ageas 
did not agree and the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I will be upholding this 
complaint.  I will now give my reasons why.
 
I have to assess what steps Ageas took when dealing with Mr and Mrs Cs claim and 
whether it assessed their claim unfairly or unreasonably. In assessing the evidence I must 
ask three questions:  Was there a storm? Should Ageas deal with the claim under the 
accidental damage section of the policy? What does Ageas need to do to put things right? 
 
The first thing to establish is whether or not Ageas should have assessed the claim under 
the storm damage heading. 
 
 
Was there a storm?
 
In considering whether there was a storm, I must apply a 3 stage test:  
 
1. Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened.
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
 
 
If all answers to the above tests are yes, then a claim should succeed.  If any of the answers 
are no then, I will generally consider it is fair for an insurer to reject a storm damage claim. 
 
I have looked at the weather reports for the days leading up to the event and found that the 
wind speed rate was 45 mph; the rainfall was 10.6mm over a 24 hour period.  I recognise 
that the closest weather station was 17 miles away from the concerned address.  However, 
local weather reports are usually the best evidence I can rely on to check whether there 
were prevailing storm conditions.  Looking at the reports, I can not be satisfied that a storm 
was present at the time of the event. So the answer to the first question is no and 
consequently I have decided it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim on the basis of 
no storm being present. 
 
Should Ageas deal with the claim under the accidental damage section of the policy?
 Ageas in the policy defined accidental damage cover as:
 
Damage that is unexpected and unintended caused by something sudden and which is not 
deliberate. 
 
Applying Ageas definition of accidental damage, I am satisfied that the damage caused was 
sudden, unexpected and unintentional.  This is because the ceiling coming down and 
causing damage to Mr and Mrs Cs contents was sudden, unexpected and Ageas has 
provided no evidence to suggest that the damage was intentionally caused.  On this basis, I 
am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C have shown they have a potentially valid claim on their 
policy.  
 
Ageas also relied on the policy exclusion of wear and tear as a reason why the claim was 
declined.  The specific section of the policy states: 
 
We wont pay for rain or water damage to your contents if the water gets into your house as 
a result of poor workmanship, bad design or wear and tear 
 
In order for Ageas to rely on this clause to defeat the claim, it must show that on balance, the 
damage was due to one of the listed exclusion causes.   I have to be satisfied that it applied 
the exclusion fairly.  I have seen no evidence from Ageas to show that it instructed a loss 
adjuster or surveyor to inspect the roof that it claimed had become damaged due to wear 
and tear.  I can only conclude that Ageas has not shown that the damage was as a result of 
something the policy didnt cover.  
 
Ageas provided no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs C would have known or been aware of 
any roof damage before the ceiling fell in or whether there had been any pre-existing 
damage.  The evidence that I have seen, suggests that the roof was in good working order 
and had been replaced in the previous 7 years. 
On balance, Ageas was being unfair to conclude that the internal damage was caused as a 
result of the roof failing due to wear and tear. I am not persuaded that in the absence of 
expert evidence, that it is reasonable to arrive at this conclusion.  
 
What does Ageas need to do to put things right?
 
Ageas paid for Mrs C to replace the damaged carpet.  In addition, it paid £50 compensation 
for the distress caused.  Both of these payments are reasonable.  But to put things right, 
Ageas should reconsider the claim without reference to the wear and tear exclusion and 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
 
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Ageas should re assess the claim in light of 
my above reasons.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  Ageas should re assess the claim in light of 
my above reasons.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman