DRN-1085316
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society didn't pay an incentive when she 
switched her current account. She asks that Nationwide pays the £100 incentive as 
advertised and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
In July 2018 a member of Miss B's family recommended she open an account with 
Nationwide. Miss B and the family member hoped to benefit from Nationwide's recommend a 
friend incentive. Miss B visited a branch and opened an account on 8 October 2018. The full 
switch completed on 17 October 2018. Nationwide said Miss B wasn't eligible for the 
incentive as the switch didn't happen within 90 days of the recommendation.
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss B 
hadn't met the terms of the scheme, which required the full switch to be completed within 90 
days of the recommendation. 
Miss B didn't agree, saying she'd been unfairly treated, and so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide offers an incentive when an account is opened on the recommendation of an 
account holder. The terms of the incentive say "the full switch must be completed and the 
recommendation form must be submitted to us within 90 days after the start date shown on 
the recommendation form".
The start date on Miss B's recommendation form is 10 July 2018. So the form needed to be 
submitted and the full switch completed by 8 October 2018. 
The recommendation form was submitted on 9 October 2018. The full switch completed on 
17 October 2018. I don't think Nationwide made an error when it said the terms of the 
incentive weren't met.
Miss B wasn't able to open an account when she visited a Nationwide branch in September 
2018. But Miss B had from mid July to early October 2018 to complete the switch. I think this 
was enough time for Miss B to make an appointment or visit another branch to complete the 
switch.
While Miss B says Nationwide made it difficult for her to open an account the available 
evidence doesn't support this. I haven't seen evidence that Nationwide caused delays in 
Miss B opening an account or completing the switch that would make it fair to require it to 
pay the incentive or compensation. Nationwide said when Miss B called in November 2018 the call wait times were too long and 
it didn't call her back as promised. It paid £75 compensation for this. This happened after the 
account switch and doesn't change affect the outcome of Miss B's complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman