DRN-1990834
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society made an error which left him unable to use 
his credit card. He wants it to pay him compensation of £52,000.
What happened
Mr O told us that Nationwide had made serious errors relating to his credit card. And that this 
had caused him to be unable to use his credit card. He says hes incurred financial hardship. 
In addition Mr O complains that Nationwide has persistently falsified data. And tried to 
blackmail him into withdrawing his complaint.
Nationwide accepted that it had made an error and mistakenly altered Mr Os credit card 
account with a partially incorrect name. It said it had rectified the error and paid £200 to Mr O 
to acknowledge the mistake.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that by 
paying £200 to Mr O, Nationwide had done sufficient to resolve the complaint.
Mr O expressed dissatisfaction with the investigators view. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that it was unfortunate that this mistake was made. And that it did cause Mr O some 
inconvenience. But with the best will in the world errors will occur from time to time. 
Nationwide has corrected the mistake it made and apologised for it. Which is what wed 
expect it to do.
Mr O has told us that apart from making the error about his credit card Nationwide has also 
conducted itself inappropriately in respect of his complaint. In terms, he says hes been 
threatened with the closure of his account if he doesnt withdraw the complaint; that it 
falsified data; and that - as result of the error - hes suffered financial hardship and incurred 
losses.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Dealing separately with the various elements of Mr Os complaint. Nationwide explained that 
the wrong name had been inserted onto Mr Os account through human error. It is agreed 
that the error has now been corrected. 
Nationwide also explained that whilst the original card showed the wrong name it was also 
capable of being used. Apparently, it was declined only as Mr O sought to withdraw in cash 
more than the ATM permitted limit. Nonetheless, I can see why Mr O linked the apparent 
rejection of the card with the wrong name.
In respect of the other issues raised by Mr O, he has failed to provide any plausible 
information to support his allegations. And nothing to show that any financial loss occurred 
due to Nationwides error.
Nationwide admitted its mistake in that Mr Os account was incorrectly amended so as to 
record a partially incorrect name. But one error does not amount to persistently falsifying 
data. This was an inadvertent mistake brought about by human error and not as a result of 
malign intent.
I dont find that Nationwide suggesting that Mr O might wish to bank elsewhere amounted to 
a threat or blackmail. My only surprise would be that if  as Nationwide has explained - hes 
made seven complaints about the service provided by Nationwide since January 2018 - he 
hasnt already taken such steps himself.
Nor has Mr O given any details of how his alleged losses have been incurred as result of 
Nationwides mistake. I infer that this is because such losses did not in fact arise. Given 
some of the terminology used by Mr O in relation to this complaint, its apparent that its a 
matter of some importance to him. Its hard to imagine he wouldnt have provided the 
information if it was available to him.
In summary, Im satisfied that Nationwide has dealt with the complaint in a fair and 
reasonable manner. The payment it made of £200 is more than I would have awarded if it 
hadnt already been paid. I shant ask Nationwide to do anything else.
No doubt Mr O will be as displeased with my decision as he was with the view issued by our 
investigator. But my final decision does bring to an end our involvement as an informal 
dispute resolution service in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman