DRN-2551825
The complaint
Mr H is a director of a company Ill refer to as Z and has complained on Zs behalf. Hes
unhappy with the amount hes been charged after he cancelled his commercial vehicle
insurance policy with Tradewise Insurance Company Limited.
For ease of reading Ill refer to Mr H throughout.
What happened
Mr H took out a policy with Tradewise through a broker. He was asked to provide his driving
licence details so Tradewise could verify the details he gave when the policy was purchased.
When Mr H provided the information requested Tradewise discovered that Mr H had three
undisclosed driving convictions. Because of this Tradwise asked the broker to let Mr H know
that he would need to pay an additional premium.
When Mr H was told how much he would need to pay to cover him with his driving
convictions he said it was too expensive and cancelled his policy. The broker arranged for
the cancellation on Mr Hs behalf and said that there was an outstanding amount to pay.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained. He said hed already paid enough to cover the
time hed been insured. Mr H wasnt happy with the brokers response to his complaint and
brought the complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said as the amount charged for the time on
risk was the responsibility of the insurer, he would need to raise that seperately. Tradewise
responded to that complaint and said it had only charged Mr H for the amount of time he
was on risk. Our investigator said that Tradewise had sent a request to the broker for the
additional premium and this was causing the issue with the amount Mr H was being asked
for. He asked for Tradewise to reverse this request so that the broker could re-calculate the
amount Mr H owed.
As Tradewise didnt agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision on 20 January 2021 where I said: 
In this complaint Im only considering the actions of Tradewise. Mr Hs concerns regarding 
the broker I will deal with separately under that complaint.
When Mr H bought his policy, he had a responsibility  under the Insurance Act 2015 (the
Act)  to make a fair presentation of the risk. And for Tradewise to take any action at all it
needs to show Mr H didnt do this and that he made whats known as a qualifying breach.
Under the Act a qualifying breach is a breach for which the insurer has a remedy against the
customer because they would either not have sold them the policy, or would have done so
on different terms.
During the call when Mr H purchased the policy he was asked Any convictions, fixed term
penalties, endorsements or anything pending? and Mr H has answered No. Tradewise
said that if Mr H had answered this question correctly, it would have charged an additional
premium. As Mr H had three offences on his licence when it was provided to Tradewsie Im
satisfied he didnt answer this question correctly. Because of this I dont think hes made a
fair presentation of the risk to Tradewise.
For Tradewise to take any action it needs to show it would have either not insured Z or done
so but on different terms. Tradewise has provided evidence to show if Mr H had told it about
the offences, it would have charged an additional premium. Im therefore satisfied Mr H has
made a qualifying breach under the Act.
The remedies available to Tradewise depend on whether the misrepresentation is deliberate
or reckless, or neither deliberate nor reckless. Charging an additional premium isnt a
remedy under the Act, but I dont think Tradewise did anything wrong by asking for it to
ensure Mr H would have been fully covered if a claim is made. And as Mr H declined to pay
it and cancelled his policy, Im not persuaded Tradewise has done anything wrong.
I understand Mr H is unhappy with the amount hes been charged when he cancelled his
policy. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that if Mr H cancels it he will be
charged whats known as Short Period Rates. The terms say that as Mr Hs policy had
been running for over three months at the time of cancellation, and there were no claims on
the policy, he would need to pay 55% of the full premium.
Mr Hs full premium without the adjustment for the undisclosed convictions was £1,150.28,
therefore under the terms of the policy Tradewise could have charged him £632.56 when he
cancelled his policy. Tradewise has shown that Mr H has been charged £435.87 and said
this is the charge for his time on risk. And that because of what Mr H had already paid
towards his policy nothing further is owed to them. As Tradewise has only charged Mr H for
his time on risk, Im satisfied what Tradewise has done is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances. For these reasons, Im not going to tell it to do anything different.
Tradewise responded and had nothing further to add. Mr H responded and disagreed with 
my findings. He raised a number of points but in particular said: when he gave Tradewise his 
drivers licence it had new information; hes unhappy about being chased for a debt he 
doesnt owe; hes entitled to cancel an insurance policy if he doesnt agree with the price 
increase; and that Tradewise knew about all driving offences when it increased the premium 
the first time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set 
up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
Ive considered Mr Hs point about his driving offences being new information when he 
provided his licence to Tradewise. While it was new information to Tradewise these werent 
new offences that happened after the policy started. I say this because the offences are all 
dated before this policy was taken out, and the question asked him about anything which 
was pending. So even if all three offences werent showing on his licence when he 
purchased the policy, at the very least they were pending, and as such he should have told 
Tradewise about them when buying this policy. Im therefore satisfied Mr H didnt aswer the 
question correctly about whether he had any motoring offences. Ive also considered the point about the second premium increase being asked for after a 
previous premium increase because of these offences. While I can understand that Mr H 
isnt happy about both premium increases not being asked for at the same time, Im not 
persuaded that means Tradewise wasnt able to ask for the second one. I say this because 
while it would have been helpful for Tradewise to ask for both at the same time, it doesnt 
change that Mr H provided incorrect information when the policy started. So, Im not going to 
direct Tradewise to do anything different because of it. 
Mr H has also said he should be able to cancel his policy if the premium increase was 
unaffordable. As this is what he did when the second additional premium was asked for, Im 
not satisfied Tradewise has done anything wrong. In regard to Mr H being chased for an 
outstanding debt, as Tradewise has said he doesnt owe them anything further and the debt 
hes being chased for relates to his other complaint I wont be able to comment on it here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman