DRN-2213570
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about how MBNA Limited applied payments to his accounts, specifically 
when promotional interest rate offers have been due to end. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B entered into agreements with MBNA and in doing so agreed to the terms and 
conditions. These included information about how payments would be allocated and said 
that balances charged at the highest interest rate are paid first so that the more 
expensive balances are paid off first. This information is also included in Mr Bs 
statements. Given this I find Mr B was made reasonably aware of how his payments 
would be allocated.
Mr Bs January 2019 statement shows three balance transfer accounts:
0.3% until 19 November 2021
0% until 23 March 2019
0% until 20 February 2019. 
Mr B has said he received communication about his promotional rates coming to an end 
in February and March 2019. His statements also set out the dates the promotional rates 
expired and that they would revert to standard rates at expiry. I understand the comment 
Mr B has made about being told to repay the accounts before the expiry of the 
promotional rates to prevent the account reverting to the higher rate, but as this is what 
will happen, I do not find I can say MBNA was wrong to say this.
This complaint relates to how payments are allocated. Mr B made payments in February 
2019 expecting this to repay his account on which the promotional rate expired that 
month. This didnt happen. While I can see why this was frustrating for Mr B, as he made 
his payments before the promotional rate had expired the account he had intended to 
repay still had an interest rate of 0%. Therefore, the payments were allocated to another 
account that had a higher interest rate. While I appreciate the annoyance this caused 
and note the comment about being told to repay before expiration of the promotional rate 
of interest rate, as the payment was allocated in line with the payment allocation policy I 
cannot say MBNA did anything wrong in this case.
In March 2019, Mr B made a further payment. This was after the expiry of the February 
2019 promotional rate but before the expiration of his promotional rate on the March 
2019 account. Mr B then contacted MBNA and it appears that the payments he made in 
March were allocated to the account on which the promotional rate had expired in 
February and then the remaining balance was cleared and added to the account with a 
promotional rate due to expire in November 2021. The promotional rate on Mr Bs 
account due to expire in March 2019 did so and this account reverted to the standard 
rate of interest.
I can see that this process has caused confusion and that Mr B contacted MBNA more 
than once about this issue. MBNA accepted that it hadnt provided the service it would 
have an offered to pay Mr B £150. This payment was made in June 2019.
Mr B then raised further concerns through this investigation about payments made in 
July 2020. This was addressed and it was confirmed that the payment was allocated to 
the account on which the promotional rate had expired (and which Mr B wished it to be 
allocated) with any remaining funds allocated to the account with the next highest 
interest rate. Interest on his June statement was refunded and interest on his July 
statement waived as a gesture of goodwill. 
I understand why this issue has caused Mr B upset and I appreciate his comment about 
the information available. However, as our investigator has set out, our role isnt to 
determine the business practices of MBNA but to consider, among other things, whether 
a customer has bene treated fairly. As the payments were allocated in line with the 
payment policy, and this was included in the terms and the statements, I do not find I can 
say MBNA did anything wrong. MBNA accepted that better service could have been 
provided in 2019 when Mr B raised his concerns and I agree with this and I consider the 
£150 compensation that has been paid is reasonable.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman