DRN-2797643
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to correctly 
implement an instruction he gave to sell his pension investments. As a result he says he was 
left in a short position and exposed to unnecessary risk. He also complains that the 
charges Prudential took from his account during the time the error was being corrected were 
based on the wrong fund value. And he complains that Prudential was late paying him 
income from his pension savings in May and June 2020. 
What happened
Mr H has been assisted by his financial advisor both in his dealings with Prudential and 
when making this complaint. But for ease I will largely refer in this decision to all 
communications as having been with, and from, Mr H himself.
Mr H held pension savings with Prudential in a Retirement Account. In March 2020 he 
instructed Prudential to sell his pension investments and hold his pension savings in cash. 
Prudential made an error when inputting that instruction resulting in a more units than Mr H 
held being sold. That problem meant the transaction failed to settle and that it wasnt 
correctly reflected on Mr Hs retirement account.
Mr Hs financial advisor discussed the account with Prudential in late April 2020. On that call 
he was incorrectly advised that some of Mr Hs pension savings remained invested. Those 
investments had performed well so the value of Mr Hs pension savings was incorrectly 
inflated by those investments.
Due to a system error Prudential failed to make income payments to Mr H in May and 
June 2020. And it seems that during that time Prudential changed its processes so it 
required Mr Hs financial advisor to re-input the transactions to help correct its error. But that 
re-input also appears to have failed on a number of occasions due to problems with 
Prudentials systems. So Mr Hs income payments were received far later than scheduled.
Prudential accepted much of Mr Hs complaint. It agreed that it was responsible for the 
errors in the original sale of his pension investments. And it explained why, due to further 
internal errors, the recovery from those errors had been protracted. But it didnt think Mr H 
had been exposed to any shorting risk due to the error  it said that ultimately that risk fell 
on Prudential when it was putting things right. It apologised for the late receipt of the income 
payments in May and June 2020. And, following the involvement of our investigator, 
Prudential calculated that the charges it had taken from Mr Hs account had been overstated 
by £3.89 due to the inflated fund value at that time.
Prudential paid Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused. And it paid him a 
further £5.11 reflecting interest (after the deduction of tax) on the late income payments it 
had made. But it said that the £250 in compensation should be considered sufficient to 
additionally compensate Mr H for the additional charges he had paid.
Mr Hs complaint has been considered by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
actions Prudential had taken to correct its errors had been appropriate. And he thought that 
the compensation it had paid to Mr H was reasonable given the circumstances. He didnt 
agree that Mr H had been exposed to financial risk by the errors. So he didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld, or that Prudential needed to do anything further to put things 
right.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There are many aspects of this complaint that are not disputed. Prudential accepts that it 
failed to correctly implement Mr Hs instruction to sell his pension investments in 
March 2020. And it accepts that it failed to make the income payments that were due in May 
and June 2020 in a timely manner. So what I need to consider here is whether the actions 
Prudential has taken to correct the error it made when selling Mr Hs pension investments, 
and the compensation it has paid to him, are reasonable.
Mr H, by way of background, has sent us information about two other complaints that 
Prudential upheld in 2018 and 2019. Whilst it isnt appropriate for me to detail in this decision 
the substance of those complaints, I think it right that I take note of them. They provide 
useful background to Mr Hs frustrations with Prudentials administrative functions, and no 
doubt lead to his scepticism over the actions Prudential says it has taken to resolve the 
problems that arose in the first part of 2020.
There has been much debate between Mr H, Prudential, and our investigator, about whether 
the problems that arose with the sale of Mr Hs pension investments should be considered to 
be shorting  and indeed whether that is allowed by the terms of the pension scheme. But 
I dont think that is something that I need to consider in any depth. I think what is important 
here is the intention behind the instruction that Mr H gave to Prudential, and ensuring that 
transaction was completed correctly.Mr H asked Prudential to sell all of his pension investments. Prudential didnt input that 
transaction correctly  representing the transaction as a monetary amount rather than a 
number of investment units. So a change in the value of those units resulted in more being 
sold than Mr H held. But I am entirely satisfied, and Prudential accepts, that the error was 
not caused by anything Mr H did. So I agree with Prudential that the responsibility for any 
problems arising from that error remained with Prudential. Mr H didnt ask Prudential to 
undertake a shorting transaction so whether or not that would be allowed under the 
scheme rules is to my mind entirely irrelevant to his complaint.
I have looked carefully at the steps Prudential has taken to correct the error. Those steps 
were complex  and made more so by delays to their implementation when a member of 
staff left Prudentials employment and failed to effectively handover their outstanding work. 
But, put simply, Prudential needed to correct Mr Hs account to reflect the position he would 
have been in had the transaction been correctly processed when it was first instructed. I am 
satisfied that the corrections Prudential has made mean that the cash held in Mr Hs 
retirement account is a fair reflection of the value it would have had if nothing had gone 
wrong.
It is disappointing that the information given to Mr Hs financial advisor when he spoke with 
Prudential on the phone was incorrect. But that was simply a result of the original error, and 
Prudentials advisors failure to correctly interpret the information shown on its systems. But 
I think the changes that occurred in the stated amount of Mr Hs pension savings fairly reflect 
the correction of the error, and dont suggest that Prudential has miscalculated their value.
I agree with Mr H that Prudential failed, when it made its original corrections, to revise the 
charges it had levied on his account. Those charges are based on the value of his pension 
savings. So since the value was incorrect, the charges calculation was also incorrect. I have 
looked at the information Prudential has provided about those charges and am satisfied that 
it has now correctly assessed that Mr H was overcharged by £3.89. Whilst it is disappointing 
that Prudential failed to acknowledge that overcharging in its original response, I dont think 
the amount is such that I need to direct the firm to pay additional compensation to Mr H.
As I have said earlier, by March 2020 Mr Hs pension savings were (or at least should have 
been) held in cash. So the delays in the payment of his income in May and June 2020 were 
not offset by any investment returns. In situations such as these I would expect a business to 
compensate a consumer by paying interest, at a rate of 8% simple per annum, for the period 
of the delay. This is what Prudential has paid to Mr H, so I think it has fairly compensated 
him for the delays.
There is no doubt that, these errors and delays, so closely following the problems Mr H has 
told us about in 2018 and 2019, would have caused him a great deal of trouble and upset. 
I can entirely understand why he might have little faith in the corrections that Prudential 
performed and ask for an independent body, such as this Service, to provide some 
reassurance of their accuracy. I hope that, in this decision, I have provided that confidence 
to Mr H.
I think the payment that Prudential made to Mr H, to reflect the trouble and upset these 
errors caused to him, is in line with what I would expect in these circumstances. So whilst 
I understand that my decision will be disappointing for Mr H I dont think that Prudential 
needs to do anything further to put things right.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman