DRN-3036250
The complaint
Miss S complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt cancel recurring card payments 
from her account in 2017 as shed asked it to do.
What happened
Miss S says that her ex-partner took a 30-day free trial for credit reports from an agency 
using her card details, but that this was never cancelled. She contacted a branch of 
Nationwide about this in 2017 and says it told her there was nothing she could do about the 
payments of £14.99 per month.  Miss S wants her payments refunded from 2017.
Nationwide said that the payment had been taken from Miss S account since May 2015. It 
had no record of Miss S contacting it about this payment before October 2020 when it 
blocked any future payments. It said that if Miss S had contacted a branch she would have 
been told to complete a dispute form or given a number to call to make a request by 
telephone.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She noted that Miss S had 
told Nationwide she had been into a branch a couple of times about this. And had also called 
about a year earlier and been told it wasnt possible to cancel the payment. There was 
insufficient evidence to show she had previously discussed this in branch. She had listened 
to recordings of calls Miss S had made about cancelling direct debit payments in April and 
June 2019, but no mention was made of the recurring card payment then. She wasnt able to 
conclude that Nationwide had made a mistake and it had dealt with the payment when    
Miss S contacted it in October 2020. Miss S said she had contacted the credit reference 
agency too, but it had no record of that until September 2020.
Miss S didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she had been into a 
branch in May 2017 after having surgery. And she gave the name of the member of staff she 
spoke to then who told her she couldnt help. She doubted what Nationwide had now said 
because the manager had originally told her this member of staff had left which didnt seem 
to be the case. Miss S had contacted the credit reference agency which had told her it 
couldnt discuss an account in someone elses name. And it wouldnt have occurred to her to 
mention this payment to Nationwide when she phoned about unrelated direct debits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has no record of contact with Miss S about these payments before October 
2020. I wouldnt expect a member of staff to remember any conversation from 2017. And 
Nationwide relies on what it ought to have said to Miss S if shed asked about the payments. 
It followed that process correctly when she contacted it in October 2020.
I cant know what happened in 2017 and resolve exactly what might have been said to    
Miss S in a branch. There is nothing else to support Miss S raising this then. And so, Im 
afraid there is insufficient evidence for me to find that Nationwide made a mistake by not 
then stopping the payments. Given as Miss S says she was paying this amount monthly for 
someone elses benefit I think she would have had an opportunity to escalate this further. I 
dont have a reasonable basis to find that she raised this request with Nationwide before 
October 2020. 
I know she will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman