DRN-1934188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc have not been treating 
them fairly. They said that they are using a false accounting practice which means the 
outstanding balance on their mortgage is incorrect. Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy with fees 
and charges which have been applied to their account without authority or notification as well 
as how they have reported their credit rating.
What happened
On 20 December 2010, Mr and Mrs P took out an interest only mortgage with NatWest for 
around £140,000 over a five-year term. They brought previous complaints to our service in 
relation to this mortgage account as they wanted a term extension on it. While Mr and Mrs P 
were trying to negotiate a term extension, the fixed rate that the mortgage account was on 
expired, and the rate transferred to NatWests Standard Variable Rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs P felt that NatWest had deliberately delayed assessing the term extension so 
that they were charged a higher interest rate, so they continued to pay the lower monthly 
payment on the account, as if the mortgage was still on a fixed rate  and not what was 
required after the interest rate increase. The shortfall in payments meant that the account fell 
into arrears. Mr and Mrs P said that if they cleared the arrears, they would be admitting that 
NatWest were correct in what they had done.
A final decision was issued in February 2018 which determined that NatWest were not 
unreasonable in wanting to carry out an affordability assessment before deciding whether to 
grant a term extension and that there was no deliberate delay on their part. The decision 
said that NatWest should consider the extension if the arrears on the account were cleared.
This complaint that I am reviewing, relates to the actions and events that have happened 
since March 2018. I will not be commenting on any issues which have been raised 
previously where a final decision has already been made.
Since the final decision, NatWest have said the arrears on the account continued to accrue 
so they instructed their solicitors to start legal action. A court hearing date was set for the 16 
July 2018, which Mr and Mrs P attended. NatWest said there was a mix up with the hearing 
dates and their solicitor did not attend on this day. Mr and Mrs P thought that this has been 
done deliberately. The court date was then set for the 24 September 2018.
The judge ordered a 56-day possession order for Mr and Mrs P to either repay the 
outstanding mortgage or make a reasonable arrangement with NatWest. The judge also 
made a money judgement order of £146,071.94.
Mr and Mrs P have said that NatWest have treated them unfairly by not accepting their 
proposals and that they have applied charges and costs to the mortgage account since the 
money order without their knowledge or authority. They have also said that NatWest have 
used false accounting when working out their mortgage balance.
They brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators 
who didnt think that NatWest did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with what the investigator had said and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Court hearing in July and September 2018
NatWest have provided us with contact notes and mortgage statements which show that 
after the final decision was issued, Mr and Mrs P continued to pay the monthly payment 
which was due on their mortgage and not the increased amount. This meant that the arrears 
continued to accrue and NatWest informed Mr and Mrs P that they were going to start legal 
action. Mr and Mrs P were informed that the court hearing date was set for 17 July 2018. 
This hearing was due to be held at one court venue, but this was then changed to a different 
venue with a date of 16 July 2018. Mr and Mrs P attended court on 16 July 2018 and 
NatWests solicitor didnt attend on this day but instead attended court as per the previous 
instruction. Mr and Mrs P feel this was done deliberately so that a judgement could be 
issued without them being present at court.
I have looked at the information that has been provided and can see this error had 
happened. But I havent seen anything that leads me to think it was done deliberately by 
NatWest. We would expect a lenders solicitor to turn up when they are required to, at the 
correct venue and the solicitor notes I have seen show this did not happen. Mr and Mrs P 
have sent us an email letting us know when they received these communications  one from 
NatWest and one from the court. And the notes I have seen from NatWest confirm there was 
a mix up with the dates. I do believe that this was a genuine mistake, but I do appreciate that 
this caused Mr and Mrs P frustration.
NatWest have confirmed that no fees or charges have been added to Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage for this hearing and I think this was the right thing for them to do, as it was not the 
fault of Mr and Mrs P that they turned up when the hearing could not go ahead.
The court hearing date was then reset for 24 September 2018. I have seen a copy of the 
possession order whereby the judge gave a 56-day possession order for Mr and Mrs P to 
either repay the outstanding balance on their mortgage or come to a reasonable 
arrangement with NatWest for the balance to be paid back. The judge also made a money 
judgement order of £146,071.94 but made no other order regarding costs or fees. 
Mr and Mrs Ps offers to NatWest
Mr and Mrs P made an offer to NatWest and told them they had three properties on the 
market. They said that the sale of one of the properties was due to complete and some of 
those proceeds were going to be used to pay off a development loan they had.  
Mr and Mrs P said there were no completion dates on the other two properties  although 
they had offers accepted. NatWest informed Mr and Mrs P they would not cancel the 
possession order until they had confirmation of a completion date and that the proceeds of 
the sale were enough to repay the outstanding balance on the mortgage. I do think this was 
a reasonable step for NatWest to take because they required the balance outstanding to be repaid.  And without having evidence of how much equity was left and when the completion 
date was going to be, there was no guarantee that the balance would be repaid.
Mr and Mrs P then made another offer to NatWest. They said they would pay a lump sum of 
£46,000 and then a further £25,000 every three months to reduce the capital. NatWest 
asked Mr and Mrs P for evidence of where the funds were coming from. Mr and Mrs P said 
that this was coming from Mr Ps pension and were able to provide evidence, so NatWest 
accepted this offer. They also said that Mr and Mrs P had to maintain the monthly payment 
of £507.30 in addition to the lump sum payments and I have seen a letter which was sent to 
Mr and Mrs P confirming this arrangement. I can see from the contact notes that NatWest 
said these payments had to continue, or it would mean the arrangement would be broken. I 
think it was only right in this situation that NatWest asked for evidence of where the funds 
were coming from. After all, the mortgage term had ended and Mr and Mrs P were not able 
to repay the outstanding balance at that time, so I think its reasonable NatWest wanted 
evidence to support where the funds would be coming from, to support Mr and Mrs P could 
maintain the offer made.
Mr and Mrs P raised concerns with NatWest that because they were making these lump 
sums to reduce the capital outstanding, that the monthly amount they were paying should 
also reduce because it was an interest only mortgage. NatWest explained that because the 
mortgage term had ended, this was the monthly payment that was due but anything over 
and above this payment, would reduce the balance. I do think that while the monthly 
payment could have reduced because the balance was reducing, this would have meant that 
the outstanding balance would have taken longer to repay which would have meant more 
interest being paid by Mr and Mrs P. Under the circumstances, this was not necessarily the 
right thing for them.
Mr and Mrs P said they approached NatWest again once they had paid a large amount off 
their mortgage balance, asking NatWest to consider an arrangement for them to repay the 
remaining outstanding balance over 66 months. They wanted this to happen because the 
money was being withdrawn from their pension and they were being penalised for this.
NatWest said they had seen evidence of where the funds were coming from before they 
agreed to the lump sum payment arrangement. They said they were satisfied Mr and Mrs P 
had enough funds to repay the mortgage in full and as the term ended in 2015, and an 
additional extension agreed taking it to 2017, they would only allow a 12-month extension. 
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy that NatWest refused to accept this offer  especially as they 
had reduced the mortgage balance.
While I understand why Mr and Mrs P were frustrated about this, they did enter into a 
mortgage agreement with NatWest and this agreement had ended. NatWest were entitled to 
ask for the outstanding balance to be paid back following the end of the mortgage term, and 
they didnt have to agree to any further offers.  Although Mr and Mrs P initially wanted a term 
extension, based on the previous decision issued by our service, it would be re-considered if 
Mr and Mrs P cleared the arrears on their mortgage. But this didnt happen. Therefore 
overall, I cant say that NatWest were unfair or unreasonable in any aspect with regard to the 
offers put forward by Mr and Mrs P, or in wanting the mortgage paid back within a 
reasonable amount of time.
Fees and charges
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that legal costs have been added to their mortgage balance and 
say that this is unfair, and they were not notified of these costs. They said that because the court made a money judgement in September 2018 for £146,071.94, no other charges 
should be added to the account. 
I have looked at the possession order dated 24 September 2018 and there is a money 
judgement order for £146,071.94 however, there isnt an order made regarding costs or fees. 
This would have been on the court order if the judge wished to include these.
The money judgement order that was made was the total balance that was owed  on that 
day. If the judge intended to make an order on any costs or fees, they would have done this, 
and it would have been on the possession order. However, this doesnt mean that further 
costs or fees cannot be added to the mortgage balance in events that occurred after the 
court date. NatWest were entitled to add any fees they deemed appropriate to charge, within 
limits, to the mortgage balance.
NatWest have already confirmed that Mr and Mrs P have not been charged for the hearing 
on 16 July 2018. And the fees that Mr and Mrs P have been charged, have been charged in 
line with NatWests terms and conditions and Im satisfied with this. NatWest initially sent a 
letter to Mr and Mrs P of their intention to instruct solicitors and that Mr and Mrs P would be 
liable to the costs involved, including any legal action that may be taken.  The contact notes 
that NatWest provided us show a note dated 20 April 2018 which says this letter was sent. 
NatWest didnt have to explicitly tell Mr and Mrs P what they would be charged. The invoices 
I have seen from the solicitors and the charges applied, are in line with the work we would 
expect a solicitor to carry out.  The terms and conditions also say that any costs or fees 
associated with actions taken on the mortgage account, including legal costs, can be added 
to the mortgage. Lenders get charged for any legal work that is carried out and they are 
entitled to pass this cost to the borrower, so I dont think that NatWest have done anything 
wrong here.
Mortgage balance
Mr and Mrs P believe that their mortgage balance is incorrect, based on calculations they 
have made themselves which they have sent us. Having looked at the information that 
Mr and Mrs P have sent us, along with information sent by NatWest, there appears to be a 
delay in when the payments are credited to the mortgage account, from when they leave 
Mr and Mrs Ps current account.
I can see that NatWest issued Mr and Mrs P a final response letter in August 2019 
addressing these concerns. NatWest said that before crediting the mortgage account, there 
are a number of security and mandatory checks they need to complete. They said the 
mortgage statements will show a date when the funds are credited and all checks complete, 
however for interest purposes, all credits are backdated to the date when the payments were 
made. They gave examples of some of the credits that Mr and Mrs P were querying, in the 
final response letter. Based on this, Im satisfied that NatWest are applying credits to the 
account correctly and are not charging any more interest than they should be.
Our investigator also pointed out to Mr and Mrs P that she noticed the starting balance they 
used on their spreadsheet was £146,071.94. She said this balance was the outstanding 
balance on 24 September 2018 however, on 20 October 2018 the monthly interest amount 
of £509.05 was applied to the account so the starting balance should have been 
£146,580.99 on their calculations. She said that this could have affected the calculations that 
Mr and Mrs P made, and I would agree with her.
Credit rating and next stepsMr and Mrs P believe that NatWest have acted unfairly in reporting the arrears on their 
mortgage to the credit reference agency (CRA). There is no doubt that Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage account fell into arrears  and this is because they didnt pay the amounts that 
were required towards their mortgage. While Mr and Mrs P made a choice to do this 
because they didnt agree with the interest rate they were on, they did fall into arrears. 
NatWest are required to report accurate information about the mortgage account, so I am 
satisfied they have done what is required of them as a lender.
I know that this isnt the answer that Mr and Mrs P were hoping for, but I cant agree that 
NatWest have treated them unfairly or unreasonably in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P have around £10,000 outstanding on their mortgage and they should engage 
with NatWest to discuss how this outstanding balance is to be repaid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman