DRN-3058696
The complaint
Mr G complains Equifax Limited incorrectly reported information on his credit file, leading to 
him being turned down for a further advance on his mortgage.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G and his wife took out a mortgage with a lender who Ill call R. He initially 
borrowed enough to buy the property, with the intention of taking out a further advance once 
renovations had been done. My understanding is an agreement in principle for £190,000 had 
been given, but the amount borrowed was less.
These renovations were paid for through Mr Gs overdraft and credit card  and he says 
these became maxed out in around July / August 2020. At the end of August 2020, Mr G 
spoke to R to consolidate the borrowing on his overdraft and credit card through a further 
advance on his mortgage  he also says he checked his credit score with another credit 
reference agency, who said his score was in the good for credit band. 
On 3 September 2020 Mr G spoke to R, who in doing their initial search found there was an 
issue with his details being on the electoral register, and there was nothing R could do. They 
suggested he speak to Equifax. So, Mr G did, and complained about whatd happened.
In their reply on 24 November 2020 Equifax said the issue was raised as a dispute on 
9 September 2020, and on 18 September a Notice of Disassociation (NoD) was applied to 
fix the issue. Unfortunately, this failed, so a further one was applied on 22 September. 
Equifax said they couldnt explain why the NoD failed and said sorry for any confusion. They 
added it seemed the reason this originally happened was due to the similarities in Mr G and 
his sons details which caused their matching system to identify his sons data as his. They 
said theyd checked and none of Mr Gs sons details were now showing  but they accepted 
theyd made a mistake and offered £150 compensation.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response. He said it seems Equifax used an incorrect algorithm 
to mix up his data with his sons. Mr G said once Equifax had sorted this out, he was able to 
proceed with his application  but because banks only use the last three months worth of 
data it looked like he was wholly dependent on credit. Because of this, R turned down his 
application for the further advance. Mr G says this has caused significant issues for him.
As is our normal process, we asked Equifax for their information on this complaint. They 
provided this, and in doing so explained the NoD process ensures all financial information is 
separated from the other party and prevents a repeat of it.
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think he could attribute Equifaxs 
failings with being the sole reason Mr Gs further advance was turned down. But he noted 
how this had made Mr G feel, and the problems hed had, and awarded £300 compensation.
Equifax accepted this, but Mr G didnt. He said when this happened he wasnt showing as 
fully dependent on credit, but by the time Equifax had sorted the issue he was. Mr G said the 
application should have been able to go ahead previously, but its well known banks look at 
the last three months to establish a reasonable insight into someones financial situation. So, 
if Equifax hadnt made this error, Mr G feels hed have been able to consolidate his 
borrowing. He let us know in August 2021 hed received a formal offer to re-mortgage, to 
help clear some of his outstanding borrowing  and said his circumstances arent that 
different to a year ago  except there is no inaccurate data on his Equifax credit file.
Mr G also explained in a later response that his and his wifes salaries had increased, and 
the borrowing would have only taken them up to the £190,000 thatd been previously agreed. 
He said the only difference was Equifaxs information. Mr G provided copies of two calls from 
R to support his position.
So, as Mr G feels Equifax are still responsible for what happened, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted some other issues were raised during the course of this complaint  but Mr G has 
been clear in saying the only issue to be considered is about the incorrect information on his 
credit file. So, Ill focus on that.
Ive also seen Equifax have accepted they made a mistake and awarded compensation for 
this. They initially awarded £150, and then agreed to the £300 our Investigator 
recommended. So, I dont need to decide if Equifax made a mistake as theyve accepted 
they did, I just need to focus on whether the compensation awarded is sufficient to put 
matters right.
Mr G has complained about how long it took for matters to be resolved with Equifax. From 
the information I can see he raised his concerns on 3 September 2020 about the incorrect 
data, and hes sent them an email on 20 September 2020 saying it looks like the matter is 
resolved. Equifax have said the last NoD to resolve the issue was applied on 22 September.
So, at face value, it seems the issue with Mr Gs son being attached to his credit file was 
corrected in around 19 days. I can understand why hed be frustrated its taken that long, but 
Id usually expect Equifax to need to look into matters. 19 days doesnt sound like an entirely 
unreasonable period of time  though Ill still consider this when Im thinking about the 
compensation.
I point this out because Mr Gs argument is when he was initially applying for the further 
advance with R, he wasnt utilising all of his overdraft and credit card limits. And says banks 
look at the last three months to establish someones financial situation. I dont know what Rs 
criteria would be in this situation  but if they did look at the last three months, theyd 
potentially also take into account the trajectory of someones financial situation. Does the 
individuals spending suggest theyre reducing their commitments, or increasing them? In 
Mr Gs case, he was increasing them to carry out the renovations. 
Ive listened to the first call Mr G has provided, and it aligns with what he told us when he 
first contacted us  which is R told him he needed to talk to Equifax because the soft credit 
search was turned down. 
Mr G said he wasnt able to get the call from the mortgage adviser at R who formally turned 
down the application on 16 October 2020  as R couldnt trace it. But, he said he was told three times during this call his application was being turned down due to his poor credit 
score.
So, the second call Mr G provided is one he had with Rs customer care team, which he 
says was just before the above call with the mortgage adviser. In this call, which Ive also 
listened to, as Mr G has said he was told his application was turned down for a poor credit 
score. The person hes speaking to though, isnt the mortgage adviser, and she said hell 
need to speak to mortgage adviser to discuss this in more detail.
Broadly then, the position Mr G initially came to us is the same  he says on balance, its 
more likely than not his further advance application was turned down due to Equifaxs errors. 
Mr G has provided two credit reports from Equifax  the first in July 2020, and the second on 
the day his further advance was turned down on 16 October 2020. This latter report says his 
credit score is poor. But it doesnt set out why. The first credit report doesnt provide a score 
 so its unclear if Mr Gs credit score would have been considered as poor by Equifax at that 
point in July.
But, as our Investigator explained, there can be many factors why a lender such as R might 
turn down someones lending. In effect, Id need to be satisfied the sole reason for R turning 
down Mr Gs application was due to Equifaxs error. And I cant say Ive been provided with 
any evidence that clearly says that.
Generally, lenders are reluctant to provide this kind of information  and in my experience 
thats usually because there are a significant number of commercially sensitive factors which 
feed into this kind of decision. Im aware some lenders for example may take into account 
more than 100 different factors when deciding whether to grant secured lending. 
Because Ive not been provided with clear information by Mr G to show Equifax are solely 
responsible for his further advance being turned down, I wont be awarding the costs hes 
asked for.
I do accept Mr G has suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of Equifax recording 
the incorrect information. Im satisfied based on all the information Ive seen compensation is 
a fair way of putting that right. Our Investigator recommended £300  and I think thats fair in 
all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Equifax Limited to pay Mr G £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman