DRN-3537275
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a wills and trust package and was pressured to take 
other products that werent required or suitable, all of which were financed via a credit 
agreement with Specialist Lending Limited (trading as Duologi). 
What happened
Mr M says that his wife was called by a company Ill call L after she had checked some 
information on the internet. L advised Mr Ms wife that both of their wills needed to be 
completed urgently. 
Mr M subsequently entered into a contract with L in November 2019 for the following 
package:
4 x Lasting Power of Attorneys
2 x Discretionary Trusts
2 x Life Assurance
2 x 5-year Gold Aftercare
The total cost of the package was £3,881.60. Mr M paid a deposit of just over £388 which 
included payment for wills for his wife and himself. L then arranged for the remaining amount 
to be repaid via a fixed sum loan agreement with Specialist Lending Limited, trading as 
Duologi (Duologi) over a term of 18 months.
Mr M says that L pressured him to taking out the trusts and that he was a victim of hard 
selling. He also says that once the contract with L was in place, he received documents with 
no clear instructions and with incorrect names added. 
Mr M then went overseas to get the corrected documents signed and says he then sent 
these to L and heard nothing further. However, he says that he couldnt get the trust 
documents signed as he hadnt been given these from L. So, he complained to L and asked 
for a full refund which he says was agreed to but didnt materialise. 
Mr M complained to Duologi and said that L had provided incorrect and inconsistent 
information about what documents needed to be completed and signed and that, despite 
numerous attempts by him to contact L, the products sold under the package had not been 
finalised and put in place. 
Mr M also said that the products had been mis-sold to him and that he wanted a refund of 
his overseas travel costs. 
As Mr M wasnt happy with Duologis response to his complaint, he referred the matter to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. He said, in 
summary, that it was more likely than not that Mr M had willingly agreed to buy the products 
sold by L and that he wasnt pressured to do so. He also didnt think that any of the products 
had been mis-sold. 
Our investigator also didnt think that L had failed to provide Mr M with the required 
documents for the products that either needed signing or completing. He felt that Duologi 
shouldnt refund Mr M his overseas travel costs as the documents werent required to be 
signed by parties other than Mr M and his wife. And he said that L had confirmed that they 
could still provide what they had agreed to, upon Mr M completing some documentation, 
which he thought was reasonable. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator and so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mr Ms complaint, I take into account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, 
guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my 
decision. And I want to assure Mr M that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about these. I have considered everything thats been said 
and sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr M has brought his complaint to us against Duologi as the provider of finance for the 
package he bought from L. I will briefly set out how Duologi can be held responsible for the 
way the loan and the products under the contract with L were sold. 
Mr Ms loan with Duologi is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). This Act 
contains provisions which give a degree of protection to consumers where they have 
purchased goods or services with certain types of credit. Mr Ms loan is of a type which 
qualifies for the protection offered by sections 56 and 75 of the CCA. 
Section 56 has the effect of making L the agent of Duologi for the purpose of the antecedent 
negotiations leading up to Mr M entering into the loan agreement. In broad terms, this 
means Duologi can be held responsible for the acts or omissions of L in relation to the sale 
of the loan to Mr M. In other words, Duologi must accept responsibility for the things L said 
or did during the sales process. 
Section 75 allows Mr M to make a like claim against Duologi in respect of any breach of 
contract by L, or misrepresentation by L, in relation to the purchase of the package L sold 
him. A breach of contract could be a breach of an explicit contractual term or one which is 
treated as being included in the contract due to, for example, legislation saying that it must 
be.
Ive firstly thought about Mr Ms complaint about the manner in which the contract with L 
(and finance agreement with Duologi) was sold. This I think essentially comprises two 
elements: that he was pressured into taking out the products and loan agreement and that 
some of these products werent suitable. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook sets out Principles and Rules that firms 
must adhere to when carrying out business; and firms must always apply these Principles. 
The PRIN section of the Handbook sets out at Principle 6 that a firm is required to to pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And Chapter 2 of the 
FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook says under section 2.2.2 that examples of behaviour 
by or on behalf of a firm which is likely to contravene Principle 6 include: (2) subjecting 
customers to high-pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive behaviour, or unfair coercion.
Mr M says that he was the victim of hard selling by L and that ultimately, he was pressured 
into agreeing to take out the contract with L and all of the products they sold him. Its difficult 
though for me to make an assessment on how much pressure was applied. Theres no 
contemporaneous evidence of what was discussed. I accept that Mr M says that he felt 
pressured, but I find it was his choice to decide whether to enter into the agreement with L 
and the agreement with Duologi. Mr M signed the finance agreement and didnt attempt to 
cancel or withdraw from it or the contract with L. Before signing the paperwork, I think Mr M 
was also shown pre contract information that set out the key features of the loan agreement 
with Duologi. On balance, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to safely conclude 
that Mr M was unfairly pressured into entering the agreement with Duologi or the contract 
with L.
Mr M also says that some of the products that were sold to him werent fit for purpose and 
that most, if not all, of these are still havent been finalised due to Ls actions. 
I note that Mr M has referred to conversations hes had with other parties, including 
solicitors, where theyve said that the products L sold werent fit for purpose. I havent though 
seen anything persuasive that would make me think this. I havent, for example, seen 
compelling evidence that the products sold by L wont or cant operate in the way they 
intended to. I would be more persuaded had I been sent specific evidence that this is the 
case and the reasons for that. However, Im not persuaded that I have any such evidence. 
It seems to me that a major point of contention is that Mr M feels L made several errors 
which has delayed what needs to happen to put each of the products purchased into force. 
Naturally, if L hasnt done what it set out and agreed to do under its contract with Mr M, then 
that would be a breach of contract. 
Ive seen that there has been significant correspondence between L and Mr M and between 
Duologi and Mr M on this point. And clearly something has gone wrong because both Mr M 
and L say that the matter still hasnt been finalised nearly three years on from the contract 
being entered into. 
However, I cant be sure that L has acted in such a way that means it is solely at fault for 
this. Clearly, L has made some errors. For example, they sent out documentation to Mr M in 
incorrect names. I have though seen evidence that L has tried to set out what needs to be 
completed to Mr M and that this can still be achieved. I think that is still a reasonable solution 
to this particular dispute. I would though expect L to now clearly set out in writing to Mr M 
what needs to be finalised, how this needs to occur, and that it does so without any delay. 
I accept that Mr M likely wont agree that this is a fair outcome and that the nature of this 
dispute has led to him not agreeing to pay Duologi the instalments required under the loan 
agreement. This will, as Mr M has pointed out, have an impact on his credit file. However, I 
am not satisfied that L acted in such a way that would mean that non-payment of the loan 
agreement was a reasonable thing to do. So, I wont be asking Duologi to remove any of the late or missed payment markers it has placed on Mr Ms credit file. 
Overall, and while I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr M, for the reasons Ive given, 
I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman