DRN-4038542
The complaint
Mr M complains that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) repudiated 
a claim he made against his motor insurance policy. And he complains Zenith caused further 
damage to his car while it was in the care of the approved repairers (AR).
For clarity, some of the actions I refer to in this decision were carried out by some of Zeniths 
agents. However, for ease of reading, I have mainly referred to Zenith throughout this 
decision; as its responsible for the actions of its agents as the underwriters of the policy.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M was involved in an incident to which Zenith deemed Mr M to be liable. 
Mr M says that his car sustained minor damage but was in a driveable condition. 
Mr M says that it took a long time from the incident for his car to be taken in for repairs - 
eventually, his car went in for repairs on 30 September 2022. He also adds that he didnt get 
a courtesy car until 7 October 2022, which was five weeks after the incident. 
On 25 October 2022, Mr M says he received a phone call asking for the courtesy car back, 
the reason being that his claim had been cancelled. He later received a letter from Zenith 
stating that the claim had been repudiated  adding that it wouldnt be dealing with the claim 
under the policy because Mr Ms previous MOTs had advisories relating to the condition of 
the brake pipe. It said that Mr M had enough time to replace the brake pipe, and its said its 
engineers felt that this was a contributing factor to the incident.
Mr M disputes what Zenith has said. He says that the advisory on the MOT relating to the 
brake pipe was in 2021. The most up to date and current MOT didnt mention the brake pipe 
as an advisory. And so, he felt that he had looked after his car in line with the policy 
documents and didnt feel that the brake pipe was the cause of the incident.
Zenith later returned Mr Ms car, at Mr Ms expense. He said when he got the car back it had 
multiple issues including, no brake fluid, multiple warning lights, the gear stick cover hanging 
out and it was now in an undriveable condition. Mr M adds that his car was driven after the 
incident, and driven to the garage for repairs, so the incident couldnt have been the cause of 
the new damage to the car.
Zenith didnt change its view on the repudiation of Mr Ms claim. It didnt think that Mr Ms car 
had been maintained in a roadworthy condition in line with the policy terms and condition  
namely because three previous MOTs had noted the corroded brake pipe, so Mr M should 
have got this repaired, which would likely have prevented the incident from occurring. It did 
however offer Mr M £150 for the distress caused when its approved repairer damaged the 
gear stick cover. It also said that the approved repairer would fix this damage. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. Mainly 
because Mr Ms car has passed the MOTs and so they felt this showed Mr Ms car was 
roadworthy. The Investigator said Zenith should pay out on the claim, pay Mr M 8% simple 
interest from the date it repudiated the claim until it was paid, reimburse Mr M the cost of 
transporting his car back to him and pay him £400 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr M accepted the Investigators view, however Zenith didnt.
In summary, Zenith explained that passing an MOT wouldnt be the only scenario that would 
deem a car to be roadworthy. It pointed out that Mr M had made repairs to some of the other 
advisory points on the 2021 MOT, so it wasnt clear why he hadnt also had the brake pipe 
repaired too.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I will be upholding Mr Ms complaint, for much 
of the same reasons as that of the Investigator. However, I will explain my rationale for this 
in more detail below.
The general conditions of Mr Ms policy state:
2 Looking after your car:
You or any permitted drivers are required to maintain the insured vehicle in a roadworthy 
condition.
Its now for me to decide if Zenith has applied these terms and conditions fairly when 
repudiating Mr Ms policy, and I dont think it has.  
I accept the MOT information from 2016 and 2017, prior to Mr M purchasing the car, state in 
the advisory section that there was slight corrosion to the brake pipe. MOT information from 
2018, 2019 and 2020 does not mention any corrosion to the brake pipe. And the 2021 MOT 
information states 'Offside Front Brake pipe corroded, covered in grease or other material. 
The most recent MOT information from 27 June 2022, two months before the incident, 
doesnt mention the corroded brake pipe.
So, the most recent MOT prior to the incident, didnt mention any corrosion to the brake pipe 
at all. Because of this, it makes it very difficult for me to conclude, within my fair and 
reasonable remit, that the brake pipe on Mr Ms vehicle required immediate attention and 
enough to deem the car to not having been maintained in a roadworthy condition. 
Zenith has said that it isnt just the MOT certificate that it would take into account to deem 
whether a car was roadworthy or not, which I accept. But for me to be able to agree with it 
that Mr M hadnt maintained the vehicle in a roadworthy condition, I would have to make the 
finding that the vehicle was unroadworthy. And the MOT completed on 27 June 2022, 
passed, without any advisories relating to the brake pipe. If the brake pipe had corroded to 
the extent that the car was no longer roadworthy, I would have expected this to have been 
recorded and for the car to fail the MOT, which didnt happen. In fact, it wasnt mentioned at 
all. 
I take on board Zeniths point that the corroded pipe wouldnt have got better over time. But I 
wouldnt have expected Mr M to have questioned the test centre carrying out the MOT as to 
why it wasnt mentioned as an advisory on the 2022 MOT. It also wasnt mentioned in 2018, 2019 or 2020. Zenith state that the pipe had corroded to the extent that it shouldnt have 
passed the MOT. While I have taken on board these comments, the evidence I do have 
shows the car did pass the MOT. And so, I cant fairly conclude that Mr M hasnt followed 
professional guidance and not maintained his car to a roadworthy state.  
In addition to this, Mr M hadnt reported or noted any leaks from the brake pipe either before 
or after the incident. I can see that Zenith has provided photos that it says shows the brake 
pipe with a leak. However, I have also seen a video provided by Mr M, after his car was 
returned, showing no leak. Both parties have also provided their own reports from engineers 
which contradict each other and support their own version of events. So, its difficult for me 
to be able to fairly conclude if there was a leak or not.
The only independent information I have is the most recent and valid MOT. And taking this 
into account, I dont think there was anything more Mr M needed to do to maintain his 
vehicle to be in a roadworthy condition. And so, I dont find that Zenith has fairly applied the 
terms of the policy in this case, and it needs to put things right for Mr M.
Mr M has said that when his car was returned to him, it was more damaged than when the 
appointed repairer collected it and he feels that the damage caused was deliberate. The AR 
has agreed to repair the damage to gear stick cover already, so Ive assumed it has 
accepted that it damaged this. I can understand Mr Ms strength of feeling here in that he 
feels the damage was deliberate, however, its very difficult for me to be able to agree with 
this point without any clear evidence, which I havent been provided with.
Overall, I think Zenith has caused Mr M a lot of avoidable distress and inconvenience. Ive 
seen information on file that suggests the situation has caused Mr M to visit his GP. Hes 
also been without a car for many months, which has impacted his ability to be able to work 
on some days. I will be considering these things when deciding on appropriate redress.
Putting things right
It isnt clear from the information I have on file what Zeniths position is in terms of whether it 
deemed Mr Ms car a write off, or whether it could be repaired. Ive thought about both of 
these options when deciding on fair redress. 
To put things right for Mr M, Zenith should:
Meet the claim in line with the policy terms
If this requires paying out on the claim (either the cost of repairs or the market value), 
then Zenith should also pay Mr M 8% simple annual interest from the date it 
repudiated the claim until it pays it.
If repairs to the car are required, Zenith should repair Mr Ms car to the pre incident 
condition.
Reimburse Mr M the cost of his vehicle being delivered back to him, along with 8% 
simple annual interest from the day Mr M paid it, until it reimburses the cost. This is a 
cost Mr M wouldnt have incurred had Zenith dealt with the claim.
Pay Mr M £400 for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused  this is 
in addition to any other compensation award it has already agreed to pay Mr M. 
If Zenith decide to repair the car to the pre incident condition, and Mr M has concerns over 
this, then thatd potentially be a new complaint. Here, Im simply deciding whether the claim 
should be met or not. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order West 
Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance to put things right for Mr M by doing what Ive 
said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman