DRN-1834411
 
The complaint
C, a company, complains about the way in which The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc handled 
its complaint when it was the victim of a fraud. C is represented by its director, Mr J. 
What happened
On 31 October 2019 two payments were made from C's account with RBS to a merchant, S, 
with which C had dealt in the past. The two payments amounted to nearly £3,000, very much 
more than C's previous dealings with the merchant. 
Mr J contacted the bank, which suggested he get in touch with S. Mr J did that, and the 
merchant confirmed that its own systems had been compromised. It agreed that the 
payments were fraudulent and arranged for them to be refunded; they were returned on 4 
November, a few days after they'd been taken. 
Mr J arranged to meet RBS at its branch on the same day. He wanted to know how the fraud 
could have happened. He was however unhappy with the outcome of that meeting and felt 
that he (and his wife, who also attended) had received poor service. RBS didn't accept that 
Mr J had been treated poorly, although it did pay some modest compensation to C.
Mr J didn't think this went far enough. He felt that RBS should have done more to protect its 
customer and that it hadn't helped in the recovery of the funds. He thought RBS should pay 
more compensation and provide a clear explanation of how the fraud happened. He referred 
the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened but took the view that RBS had done 
enough to resolve things. He pointed out that the complaint had been brought on behalf of C, 
but that Mr J's complaint was to some extent about the way he and his wife had been 
treated. C had, he thought, suffered some inconvenience, but the compensation RBS had 
paid was sufficient to recognise that. He didn't recommend that RBS take any further steps 
to resolve the complaint. 
Mr J, on behalf of C, didn't accept the investigator's conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Like any bank, RBS does of course have systems in place to seek to prevent or minimise 
losses to fraud, but it's impossible to prevent all fraud. Where it does happen, this service 
has a role in deciding who should bear any loss. But it's not for me to tell RBS what systems 
it should have in place or to compel it to change them. In any event, it appears that the root 
cause of the problem in this case wasn't with the bank or C, but with S.   However, where fraud does occur, I would expect a bank to assist its customer in resolving 
the issue. But in my view that's what RBS did here. Because C had made previous 
payments to S, it was sensible to suggest to Mr J that he take the matter up with that 
merchant in the first instance. In the event, that resolved the matter within a few days. It's 
unlikely that RBS could have achieved the same result any sooner - it would have had to 
contact S itself to find out what had happened. 
I note what Mr J has said about the way he and his wife were treated. But, as the 
investigator noted, that's not a complaint made on behalf of C; I'm considering here C's 
complaint, because C is the customer of the bank and the underlying issue concerns its 
account. I have no power to make an award in respect of the way in which the bank treated 
Mr J or his wife,a nd so make no further comment on that. RBS has compensated C for the 
cost of telephone calls, together with a payment in respect of the inconvenience it has 
suffered. I agree with the investigator that this is sufficient to resolve C's complaint and I 
don't propose to require it to do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more 
to resolve C's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 7July2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman