DRN-3468292
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so whilst I understand it will disappoint Mr J Im afraid I agree with the 
investigators view. Please let me explain why.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr J responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied reasonably and 
Ill use that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that have been provided and compared the 
damage to the BVRLA standard.
That standard says that scratches of up to 25mm are permitted as long as the damage 
hasnt penetrated the primer. I think the photographs suggest the damage has penetrated 
the primer and I think the charge for refurbishment of both doors is therefore justified and 
fair.
Whilst I understand Mr J is disappointed with the delay in arranging an inspection I dont 
think the delay was excessive. He contacted MBFS only 9 days before the car was 
inspected. 
Mr J says he was made to return the vehicle early and merely wanted to arrange the 
inspection when he visited the dealership. Ive seen the declaration that was signed by Mr J 
after the inspection was done. That suggests that he was happy with the information 
collected during the appraisal. Mr J had been told by MBFS that the car would need to be 
returned before 1 September 2021 and Ive not seen evidence to suggest he was forced to 
hand over the keys early. I think the fact he signed the declaration form suggests he was 
made aware of the process and he didnt have to return the car at that point. 
Overall, I dont think MBFS have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman