DRN-2051800
The complaint
Ms T says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Ms T between December 
2018 and February 2020. Ms Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
numberPrincipal
(£)Start Actual Date 
of 
RepaymentHighest 
Repayment
(£)
1300 20.12.18 04.02.19 158.29
2600 01.03.19 30.08.19 174.16
3600 01.10.19 14.11.19 174.61
4400 31.12.19 05.02.20 184.27
5400 15.02.20 outstanding 197.71
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ts complaint and thought loan 5 shouldnt have been 
given. Ms T disagreed and said she thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been given either. 
She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Cashfloat agreed with the adjudicators conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Ms T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to provide loans 1 to 4 to Ms T, 
and I agree with him for the same reasons. 
Loans 1 and 2 were arranged during the early part of the lending relationship, and seem to 
have been affordable to Ms T based on the checks Cashfloat carried out. Loan 1 was repaid 
before the contractual repayment date, and loan 2 was repaid in line with the loan 
agreement. 
Loan 3 was taken out several weeks after loan 2 had been repaid, and was for the same 
amount as loan 2. 
Loan 4 was for less than loan 3, and loans 3 and 4 seem to have been affordable to Ms T 
based on the checks Cashfloat carried out. Ms Ts declared monthly income for when she 
applied for both loans was around £2,000 and her declared monthly outgoings were around 
£470 when she took loan 3, and £630 when she took loan 4.
I realise Ms T considers Cashfloat shouldve carried out more detailed checks of her finances 
before it agreed to loans 3 and 4, to verify the information shed provided. But Im satisfied 
that the checks Cashfloat carried out were proportionate, given the amounts Ms T was 
borrowing and the gaps between repaying one loan and taking the next.But from what Ive seen, I dont think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to arrange loan 5 for Ms 
T. By that point Ms T had taken five instalment loans in just over a year. 
With that in mind, I think it wouldve been reasonable at that stage for Cashfloat to carry out 
more detailed checks into Ms Ts finances. 
I understand Cashfloat asked Ms T about her income and outgoings and checked her credit 
file. But I think it wouldve been reasonable for Cashfloat to verify what Ms T had told it about 
her income and outgoings. 
Had it done so, I think Cashfloat wouldve discovered that in the month before taking loan 5, 
Ms T was living mostly in her overdraft, and had made payments towards four other short-
term loans. She took out another loan from a different lender and was also making payments 
towards four credit cards. Cashfloat wouldve also been made aware of the extent of Ms Ts 
gambling spend.
So I think it wouldve been reasonable for Cashfloat to conclude that loan 5 was unlikely to 
be sustainable for Ms T.
Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
I dont know whether Ms T has been able to repay the outstanding balance on loan 5. Or if 
the debt has been sold to a third party. If the debt has been sold, Cashfloat can if it wishes 
buy the debt back. However, if is unable to buy the debt back it needs to work with the third 
party debt owner to achieve the same results as below: 
For loan 5 all the unpaid interest fees and charges need to be removed from the 
outstanding balance. Cashfloat then needs to apply all payments made to this loan 
by Ms T as if they went towards the principal amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Ms T has already paid enough to repay the principal amount 
borrowed then Cashfloat needs to refund any overpayments from the date they 
became due to the date of settlement. To this over payment Cashfloat needs to add 
8% per annum simple interest.
remove any negative information about loan 5 from Ms Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) to pay compensation to Ms T in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman