DRN-3982744
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mrs M and Mr S hold with Lloyds Bank PLC. Theyre 
unhappy that their fixed rate mortgage product ended in November 2022, rather than running 
for two years from the mortgage start date. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs M and Mr S and Lloyds. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared 
with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a 
brief summary of the key points, and then focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mrs M and Mr S first applied for a mortgage in August 2020; the interest rate they were 
recommended was fixed at 2.55% until November 2022. That application didnt proceed, but 
they applied again in June 2021, and the mortgage started in July 2021 on the same interest 
rate deal. In September 2022, Mrs M and Mr S complained that their rate was about to end 
in November 2022, when they were expecting it to run until July 2023.
In two separate final responses, Lloyds paid £100 compensation for a lack of clarity in the 
information provided during the application process, but confirmed that the end date for the 
fixed rate was always November 2022. It has, however, offered Mrs M and Mr S the option 
of substituting an alternative rate product that would have been available when the mortgage 
started. It runs until August 2023, but the interest rate is higher so Mrs M and Mr S would 
have to pay the difference between what they have paid and what they would have paid. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt recommend any 
further redress. Mrs M and Mr S have asked for the complaint to be reviewed and decided 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to a recording of the phone call between Mrs M and Mr S and Lloyds 
in June 2021. Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
Its quite apparent that, both in writing and in conversation, Lloyds gave Mrs M and Mr S 
contradictory information. The recommendation sheet dated 4 June 2021 referenced their 
desire for their monthly payments to remain unchanged for two years. That was also 
mentioned by Lloyds mortgage adviser in the phone call of the same day. However, 
the mortgage offer dated 18 June 2021 specified that the fixed rate would end on 
30 November 2022, and this date was also specified by the adviser during the 4 June 2021 
phone call. 
Taking an overview of everything that happened, I can see how that contradiction arose; 
Mrs M and Mr S had originally applied for this mortgage product in the summer of 2020, and 
the product was promoted to them as a two-year deal. If the mortgage had completed and 
started running without delay, the product would indeed have run for around two years, 
possibly slightly less or maybe slightly more, depending on the actual start date. 
Unfortunately, when the application was resurrected in June 2021, it was still referenced as 
a two-year product when the reality was that it now had a markedly shorter lifespan.
I make that latter observation because the interest rate product did have a specified end 
date as one of its terms and conditions. Theres nothing at all unusual about that; the vast 
majority of mortgage interest rate products have a defined end date rather than a defined 
duration. The actual duration of the product will therefore be governed by the start date of 
the mortgage.
All of this means that Mrs M and Mr S would never have had the opportunity to fixed their 
initial interest rate at 2.55% for the first two years of a mortgage starting in July 2021. The 
end date of 30 November 2022 was the correct end date, and this was set out in the written 
offer of 18 June 2021 that they accepted and agreed to be bound by when they completed 
the mortgage. Going back for moment to the phone call of 4 June 2021, the adviser did say, 
at around 18 minutes and 14 seconds: It is important that you read all the documents in 
full.
So this was a communication failure on Lloyds part, in that it provided contradictory 
information  spoken and written. Neither party spotted this before the mortgage completed, 
and notwithstanding the advisers comment about the importance of reading the documents, 
responsibility lies primarily with Lloyds. So I have next to consider the impact of Lloyds 
shortcoming, and the steps it has taken to try and remedy it.
Where a business gives information that is wrong (or in this case contradictory) we dont 
seek to put the consumers in the position theyd be in if the wrong or contradictory 
information had been right. Rather we put them in the position theyd be in if the right 
information, free from any contradiction, hadnt been given in the first place. Here, the error 
in June 2021 was continuing to refer to the 2.55% deal as a two-year product when it no 
longer was. This begs the question of what Mrs M and Mr S might have done differently if 
those two-year phrases hadnt been used.
It seems to me that one of two things would have happened; either: 
Mrs M and Mr S would have completed the mortgage on the terms offered, in which case 
theyd be in the same position they now are; or
theyd have asked for a different interest rate product that would run for two years, or 
thereabouts, from the start of the mortgage in July 2021. 
If Mrs M and Mr S had opted for the latter course of action in June 2021, the product they 
would have been offered would have been a fixed rate of 3.21%, with an end date of 
31 August 2023.Lloyds offered Mrs M and Mr S the option to change to this rate retrospectively as part of its 
final response to the complaint. Yes, it would have meant Mrs M and Mr S having to make 
up the payment differential for the period since the mortgage started, so I can understand if 
they didnt want (or werent able) to take up the offer. But it adhered to the principle of 
placing the consumer in the position theyd be in but for the business error. In all the 
circumstances, I think that proposal, along with the apology and £100 compensation already 
provided for the lack of clarity in the process, was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman