DRN-3230349
The complaint
Ms G and Mr G complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt settled a claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Ms G and Mr G booked a holiday abroad through two travel agents. They 
were due to travel between 31 July and 31 August 2020. On 3 February 2020, they took out 
a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker to cover their holiday.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and as they say the Foreign, Commonwealth 
& Development Office had advised against all but essential travel to Ms G and Mr Gs 
destination, their travel agents let them know that the airlines had cancelled their flights. 
On this basis, Ms G and Mr G made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs of 
their cancelled flights.
Mapfre let Ms G and Mr G know that before it could assess whether or not their claim was 
payable, theyd need to provide evidence from their travel agents and/or airlines to show that 
they hadnt received a refund of their costs.
Ms G and Mr G were unhappy with Mapfres stance and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said they hadnt asked either travel agent for a refund of their costs, as 
theyd taken out premium insurance to cover them in case of cancellation. They also said 
they didnt want to accept vouchers from their airline, as it wasnt a condition of their 
insurance that they should do so,
Our investigator didnt think Ms G and Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She explained 
that the policy covered non-refundable unused cancellation costs. So she considered that 
Mapfre was entitled to be satisfied that Ms G and Mr G hadnt been able to recover their 
losses from elsewhere before further assessing the claim.
Ms G and Mr G disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms G and Mr G, I dont think Mapfre has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms G and Mr Gs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
Mapfre treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Ms G and Mr G found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the holiday was 
booked in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt 
have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Mapfres obligations under its contract with Ms G and Mr G are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
As Ms G and Mr G werent able to travel as planned, Ive considered the cancellation section 
of their contract. This says that Mapfre will pay for any non-refundable, unused travel and 
accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges. In my view, the policy terms (in common 
with the terms of most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market) make it clear here 
that Mapfre will only pay cancellation claims where a policyholder cant recover their costs 
from another party. Its a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility 
to provide enough evidence to show that they have a valid claim on the policy. I think this 
responsibility includes demonstrating that a policyholders loss is irrecoverable. 
I note the policy also includes the following claims condition:
You or Your legal representatives must supply at Your own expense all information, 
evidence, details of household insurance and medical certificates as required by us.
In this case, Ms G and Mr G have told us that they didnt seek a refund from their travel 
agents and that they didnt want to accept a credit voucher from their airlines. As such, this 
means they havent been in a position to demonstrate to Mapfre that their loss is 
irrecoverable. Id add too that in certain circumstances, under EU regulations, airlines are 
responsible for refunding the costs of flights which they have cancelled. So I think its 
reasonable for Mapfre to expect Ms G and Mr G to try and recover their flight costs from their 
travel providers before it further assesses the claim. 
Overall then, I find that Mapfre has treated Ms G and Mr G fairly. So Im not directing it to 
pay their claim. It's now open to Ms G and Mr G to seek a refund from their travel agents 
and/or airlines. If theyre unable to recover their costs, its open to them to send this 
evidence to Mapfre so that it may further assess the claim. If theyre unhappy with the 
outcome of any further claims assessment, they may potentially be able to bring a new 
complaint to us about that issue alone.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman