DRN-3069652
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the way that Core Cover Ltd, trading as Lifecover.com
(Core Cover), handled Mr As life assurance application. In particular, that it didnt pass on
relevant information about Mr As medical history to the insurer.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs A applied for a joint ten year term level life assurance policy with a 
sum assured of £30,000 through an insurer, L. They applied for the policy using an 
insurance broker, Core Cover. At this time Mrs A already held a £30,000 10-year level term 
assurance policy with Mr A as the life assured. This was held with another insurer, V, and 
was due to end in March 2021. Mrs A has told us they were seeking to ensure life assurance 
remained in place beyond that policys end date. 
Mr and Mrs A had a conversation with Core Cover on 11 May 2020. During this call Mr A 
answered questions relating to his medical history which were submitted to L and used to 
obtain a quote. On 19 May 2020 Mr A had a further conversation with Core Cover where he 
confirmed that hed like to go ahead with the quote hed obtained. Core Cover then informed 
L and the policy went live the same day. During this second call Mr A checked with Core 
Cover that the new policy was now active and that he could cancel Mrs As existing policy  
this was confirmed, and they then cancelled the policy with V.
Sadly, in June 2020 Mr A became ill and investigations led to a cancer diagnosis. 
In July 2020 he passed away and so Mrs A made a claim on the policy.
To help its assessment of the claim, L requested information from Mr As GP. After reviewing 
the evidence received, it became aware that Mr A had a cancerous mole removed in 2018 
and that Mr As mother had died of cancer  information it had not received as part of the 
application process. In light of this, L thought Mr A hadnt disclosed relevant information 
about his medical history when he applied for his policy.
The questions L thought Mr A answered incorrectly at the point he confirmed his details are 
listed here, the answers submitted by Core Cover on behalf of Mr A are in bold:
Q Have you ever had any of these?
Options- Cancer, cancer-in-situ, leukaemia, Hodgkins disease or any other tumour, 
Heart attack, Irregular heart beat, cardiomyopathy, valve disorder or any other heart 
condition or heart surgery, A stroke, TIA, brain haemorrhage or damage or surgery to your 
brain
A 11/05/2020 12:23- No
Q Have any of these applied to you in the last 3 years? You don't need to include things 
you've already told us about
Options - I've taken or been prescribed treatment for 4 weeks or more, I've been asked to 
attend a follow-up or regular reviews with a GP, hospital or clinic, I've been advised to see a 
specialist or to have any tests, scans, investigations or counselling
A 11/05/2020 12:25- No
Q Have your birth parents, brothers or sisters had any of these before they were 65?
Options- Heart attack, angina or stroke, Cardiomyopathy, Diabetes, Bowel cancer or bowel 
polyps, Any other cancer, Muscular dystrophy, Huntingtons disease or motor neurone 
disease, Multiple sclerosis, Parkinsons disease or Alzheimers disease, Polycystic kidney 
disease
A 11/05/2020 12:22- No
L said had it known about Mr As medical history it wouldnt have offered him cover. L felt 
Mr A had misrepresented his circumstances by failing to share this information in the 
application form when he applied for the policy. And so, it declined the claim, avoided the 
policy (cancelled the policy from the start) and refunded the premiums.
Mrs A was unhappy with the decline of the claim. She raised a complaint with L and with 
Core Cover. Mrs A told Core Cover that Mr A had given it information about the cancerous 
mole and his mothers cancer. Core Cover said it was unable to locate the call recording 
linked to the application so it couldnt establish what information Mr A had given. Core Cover 
also noted Mr A was told to check his application answers which would have been sent to 
him by L.
Mrs A disagreed, so she brought the complaint to our service. Mrs A told us:
Shed been in the room when Mr A gave Core Cover this information.
That Mr and Mrs A did not receive a copy of their application answers from L until 
July 2020 and when this happened Mr A rang L immediately.
L told her the policy documents were emailed to Core Cover on 20 May 2020  but 
these were never shared with Mr A and herself.
To help them investigate the case, our investigator asked for more information from 
Core Cover, including:
Confirmation of the number of calls between Core Cover and Mr and Mrs A and 
copies of any available call notes and recordings.
Confirmation on whether Mr and Mrs A were sent a copy of their policy documents by 
email, with evidence of this.
Details of what the call handler recalls of the conversation she had with Mr A about 
his medical history, providing that she still works for Core Cover.
Despite several chaser emails, Core Cover didnt respond or provide this information. So, in 
early July 2021 the investigator issued their view of the case based on the information 
available to them. They upheld the complaint as they thought the evidence indicated Mr A 
made some disclosures to Core Cover. They also noted Mrs A already had a policy in place 
at that time with Mr A as the life assured, so Mr A wouldnt have had any reason to provide 
inaccurate information. In their opinion, Mrs As existing policy with V, which had a sum 
assured of £30,000, would have remained in place had Core Cover not made a mistake. 
So, the investigator said Core Cover should honour this payment, less the premiums that 
would have been paid to V. They also asked Core Cover to pay 8% simple interest on this 
amount until the payment was made.
In mid-July 2021 Core Cover responded to the investigators view but it didnt agree with the 
outcome. It said it hadnt received our investigators requests for further information and it 
asked our investigator to let it know what information theyd asked for so that it could 
respond. Our investigator forwarded Core Cover their previous requests for information and 
at the beginning of August 2021 Core Cover responded advising all of the information had 
been provided. Our investigator reiterated the request was for additional information they did 
not have, and Core Cover asked for more time to look into this. An extension was given, and our investigator then contacted Core Cover on four further occasions giving it repeated 
deadlines to provide the requested evidence. By mid-September 2021 theyd received no 
response.
Given it was clear Core Cover didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to consider. Over the course of this complaint I also requested further 
information from Core Cover, in addition to the information requested by our investigator. 
Core Cover then provided some information in response to my enquiries  but not everything 
we asked for.
After reviewing the evidence, I reached a slightly different outcome to the investigator. So, I 
shared my provisional findings with Core Cover and Mrs A so they both had the opportunity 
to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings were:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by extending my sympathies to Mrs A following the loss of her husband. 
I acknowledge this must be an incredibly difficult time for her, made more upsetting by the 
decline of the life assurance claim.
Im aware Mrs A also raised a complaint about L. However, this complaint has been dealt 
with separately and so I wont be commenting on it here. In this decision I will only consider 
the actions of Core Cover, but I may refer to the actions of L where I think its relevant to my 
decision making.
My role here is to look at the evidence and to decide whether, on balance, it indicates that 
Core Cover made an error. If so, I need to look at what would have happened, had an error 
not been made.
The application form completed at that time says no in response to the relevant questions. 
And as the only contemporaneous evidence, it does hold weight. But Mrs As testimony is 
that Mr A told Core Cover about the removal of his cancerous mole and the fact his mother 
had cancer  so she thinks the omission of this information from the application form was an 
error on the part of Core Cover.
Unfortunately, the call recording of Mr As conversation with Core Cover on 11 May 2020 is 
not available. Whilst I appreciate this is incredibly disappointing for Mrs A, Ive seen 
evidence from Core Cover that its contacted its technical support team in an effort to locate 
the call but has been unable to do so  it has been advised the extension used wasnt 
recording at that time.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide what I think is more likely to 
have happened. So, Ive considered the available information to see whether there is 
anything that either supports or undermines Mrs As version of events.
Core Cover has admitted its unable to establish if Mr A told them the relevant information 
because the call is not available. But it hasnt responded to our repeated requests for the 
recollections of the agent who spoke to Mr A on that day. If Core Cover feels its acted 
reasonably here, I would expect evidence from it to counter what the consumer has said, but 
despite repeated efforts this hasnt been forthcoming.
Having listened to the follow up call between Core Cover and Mr A from 19 May 2020, I think 
this evidence suggests Mr A made these disclosures. In particular, there is a section of the 
call where the Core Cover representative says I recall you were very upfront you told me about everything. Everything youve told me about is on there so rest assured everything is 
at it should be. This is when the Core Cover representative is warning Mr A about the fact 
non-disclosures could mean L wouldnt pay out if there was a claim. Whilst I appreciate the 
Core Cover representative is confirming the application is accurate, this isnt the sort of 
comment I would expect a broker to make unless there had been some significant 
disclosures made by the consumer during the application process. And Id note that the only 
positive disclosure beyond the required entries around things like age, height and alcohol 
consumption, was that Mr A had smoked around 20 years ago. Whilst its not known what 
disclosures the representative is referring to here, it would seem unusual for one positive 
disclosure to amount to a consumer being very upfront and the term everything infers that 
there was more than one disclosure. So, I do think this adds weight to Mrs As account that 
Mr A had disclosed the information about his familys cancer history and his own medical 
history.
I also think there are aspects of Core Covers handling of the application that indicate it may 
not have taken the care I think it ought to have. And I think this context makes Mrs As 
account more credible.
For example, as part of the follow-up call, Core Cover told Mr A he could cancel Mrs As 
existing cover. But at this stage Mr A hadnt been provided with any policy documentation to 
check. Ill address the delays in the sharing of this documentation in a moment, but I think 
there was a missed opportunity here to suggest Mr A should check his documentation and 
confirm his new policy was suitable before cancelling an existing valid policy. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs A may not have wanted the two policies to overlap in an effort to avoid paying 
two premiums in one month; yet even if this was the case, I think it would be reasonable to 
expect the risk of this to have been highlighted by Core Cover.
Similarly, Im aware that Mrs As existing policy was an investment theyd been paying into 
for nine years. I dont know what discussions Core Cover had with Mr A initially about 
replacing their existing cover. But Mrs A has told our service that they were simply seeking 
to ensure they had continued cover given their existing insurer couldnt offer the same cover 
to them again. So, I cant see that ending the existing policy prematurely held any benefit for 
Mr A  the premiums for the new policy dont appear to have been cheaper and the sum 
assured was the same. So, I do have some concerns about whether the sale of this policy 
was necessary at that time and whether it was appropriate to end an existing policy, into 
which Mrs A had invested nine of ten years of payment, early.
More importantly, I think the fact Mrs A had an existing policy in place covering Mr A means 
its unlikely Mr A deliberately omitted this information from his application. I say this as I can 
see no benefit in Mr and Mrs A cancelling an existing valid policy early for one that Mr A 
knew could potentially be invalidated by misrepresentation - he was warned about the 
consequences of non-disclosure following the call of the 19 May 2020. Mr As illness also 
appears to have been sudden and the medical records suggest he was fit and well in 
May 2020, so I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr A took this policy out with any 
awareness of his ill health.
Moving to the delayed documentation, Core Cover has highlighted that L later sent Mr and 
Mrs A a copy of the questions and answers to check  and that no answers were changed. 
But there was clearly a delay in Mr and Mrs A being given the opportunity to check their 
answers. And as soon as Mr A received his application, he called L. Ive listened to this call 
and Mr A doesnt tell L that any of the answers are incorrect  but he doesnt get to the point 
of discussing them. By this time Mr A was very ill (he died a week later) and he was clearly 
very confused about the correspondence hed received. He thought the letter was telling him 
he might not be covered because he was ill. He was then told to disregard the letter by L. 
But in the above context, the fact Mr A didnt amend the answers doesnt persuade me that its more likely he answered the questions incorrectly when initially asked them by 
Core Cover.
Im aware there have been discussions about who is responsible for the delay in Mr and 
Mrs A being able to check their documentation. L has provided evidence showing it emailed 
Core Cover Mr and Mrs As policy documents on 20 May 2020. The email began Please find 
attached completion documents for your clients. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest this 
was passed on to Mr and Mrs A. Core Cover has said it was normal practice for documents 
to be sent in the post to customers by the insurer. And I accept this, but Im not persuaded 
that this means it neednt have passed on information it was sent. Core Cover was still 
acting as Mr and Mrs As agent, and it had gone as far as confirming Mrs A could cancel the 
existing cover  which I think placed a greater onus on it to ensure Mr A was given the 
opportunity to check his answers as soon as practicable. So, I do think this was a mistake.
In this particular case, L delayed sending post due to the coronavirus pandemic, which is 
why Mr and Mrs A didnt get their application answers until July 2020. The delayed post was 
clearly something L was responsible for, not Core Cover. But whilst Im not expecting 
Core Cover to have been aware of these delays (given Ive seen no evidence it was 
notified), it does mean that its error removed Mr and Mrs As opportunity to check their 
answers earlier.
That being said, I also recognise Mr and Mrs A could have raised this with Core Cover when 
they didnt receive their documentation within the expected timeframe. In fact, they were 
advised to do this by Core Cover in the letter it sent them two days after the policy was 
started. In the context of Mr As hospital admissions in early June, I can completely 
understand why this wasnt done. But all of this means, I dont think Core Cover is wholly 
responsible for the delayed documentation. What it does indicate, however, is that 
Core Cover made a mistake in its handling of Mr and Mrs As application, which I think 
makes Mrs As account more plausible.
Overall, whilst I appreciate its difficult to know for certain whats happened here, on balance 
I think its more likely Mr A did tell Core Cover about his cancerous mole and his family 
history of cancer. As outlined above, the follow up call supports Mrs As account that Mr A 
made positive disclosures and the existing policy meant Mr A had no apparent reason not to 
disclose this information. I am concerned by the fact Mr A was told Mrs A should go ahead 
and cancel an assurance policy shed invested into for nine years and which only had a few 
months remaining. Ive seen no evidence to suggest this was necessary. Im also concerned 
that they were not advised to await and check the policy documentation before cancelling 
the existing policy. I would also have expected Core Cover to have provided a more 
comprehensive response to the complaint if it was of the view it had acted reasonably in all 
the circumstances and disclosed the information it was given.
I therefore think its more likely than not that Core Cover failed to disclose the information it 
ought to have to L. Had Core Cover passed this information on, Im satisfied L wouldnt have 
offered cover. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me Mr and Mrs A would have obtained 
cover elsewhere. And without alternative cover in place, I dont think Mr and Mrs A would 
have cancelled the existing policy with V. So, I think this would have remained in place and 
would have been valid at the point Mr A passed away. V has since confirmed that its likely a 
claim on this policy would have been payable.
So had mistakes not been made, I think its likely Mrs A would have claimed successfully, so 
I think shes lost out on the claim and use of this money due to Core Covers error. 
However, Mr and Mrs A would have continued to pay premiums for this policy and so this 
can be fairly deducted from any award.Mrs A had a sum assured with V of £30,000 and was paying monthly premiums of £33.67. 
Based on when Mrs A submitted her claim to L, and allowing time for this to be looked into 
and processed by V, I think a fair date to say the claim would have been payable from is the 
date L was able to reach its claim decision  21 September 2020.
Given this, I now think Core Cover should pay Mrs A £30,000, less any additional premiums 
that would have been paid. It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from 
21 September 2020 until the date this is paid.
As outlined in our investigators view, I have no doubt that the decline of the claim due to 
misrepresentation was distressing for Mrs A at a time where she was dealing with the loss of 
her husband. And I think this upset would have been avoided had Core Cover not made a 
mistake. So, I also think its fair that it pays Mrs A a further £400 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Core Cover didnt respond to my provisional findings.
Mrs A accepted them and provided some additional information about Core Cover as a 
business.  
Ive considered the information Mrs A provided but my role here is to look into the particular 
circumstances of her individual complaint. My role isnt to comment on Core Cover as a 
business generally. So, since the additional information Mrs A provided isnt about the 
particular circumstances of her complaint, I wont comment on it further in this decision.
Ive not seen any further evidence that persuades me to change my findings. And so for all 
the reasons outlined above, I think Core Cover needs to take action to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Core Cover Ltd to:
Pay Mrs A £30,000, less the cost of any additional premiums that would have been 
paid to V, as well as 8% simple interest on the remaining amount from 21 September 
2020 until the date it makes this payment.
Pay Mrs A £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Core Cover Ltd considers it should deduct income tax from any 8% interest element of 
my award it may do so, but it should give Mrs A the necessary certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman