DRN-2335753
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Vintage Wealth Management Limited (Vintage) provided unsuitable 
advice to her and did not inform her of changes in her investments which resulted in her 
suffering a financial loss. Mrs L would like compensated for the loss in value of her 
investments. 
Mrs L is represented by her husband Mr L.
What happened
In 2001, Mrs L received advice from an advisor who was an Appointed Representative of a 
financial services firm. Mrs L invested £250,000 into two funds which I will call fund A and B.
In 2008, the investments were transferred into the agency of Vintage Financial Services 
following an introduction from an Appointed Representative of the firm. 
In 2014, the investments were transferred into Vintage.
In December 2008, Fund A and B were suspended and this was communicated to holders of 
the fund in January 2009. An update was provided again in March 2009.
In May 2009, all holders of the fund A were notified that the fund was to be converted into a 
new share class. Fund B continued to be suspended.
In July 2009, Vintage Financial Services wrote to Mrs L and updated her on the current 
situation with her funds.   
In January 2010, all holders of Fund B were notified that the previous restrictions had been 
lifted.
In July 2013, all holders of Fund A and B were notified that the funds were once again 
suspended. In March 2014, the funds were transferred into alternative funds. This action was 
taken by the provider of the funds who were a third party to Vintage.
Mrs L complained to Vintage in July 2019. Mrs L said that there had been a significant 
reduction in the value of her investments and that she did not believe the investments were 
suitable for her risk profile.
Vintage investigated Mrs Ls complained and replied on 30 July 2019. Vintage didnt uphold 
the complaint and didnt think that they had done anything wrong. They explained the history 
of the relationship and said that as they had not provided the original advice, they were not 
responsible. They explained their role and confirmed that they had received ongoing 
commission relating to the investments, but they were entitled to receive these commission 
payments.
Unhappy with Vintages response, Mrs L referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed her complaint. The investigator didnt think that Vintage had done 
anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs L has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mrs L feels strongly about her complaint so I 
will explain why I have arrived at this decision.
I think that there are 3 main areas relating to Mrs Ls complaint and I will look at these in 
turn.
The initial advice given to Mrs L
Mrs L received advice in 2001. In her submission to the service, Mrs L believes that this 
advice was unsuitable as it did not reflect her risk profile. Mrs L said that she was a low risk 
investor and the investments did not match this profile.
When investigating a complaint, the service will look at the activity that the complaint is 
about and decide if the activity is something that the service can consider. Regulated advice 
is an activity that the service can consider. I have reviewed the timeline provided by Mrs L 
and can see that the initial advice was provided by a business unconnected to Vintage. 
Unfortunately, the service can only consider the actions of the business that the complaint 
has been brought against and I am sorry to say that I cant hold Vintage responsible for the 
initial advice given to Mrs L in 2001.
Mrs L can bring a complaint against the business that provided the initial advice in 2001. As 
Vintage didnt provide advice in 2001, Im not going to ask them to do anything else here.
Suspension and reduction in value of Fund A and B
I have reviewed the file and understand that Fund A and B were administered and managed 
by a third-party provider who I will call Provider C. 
Provider C wrote to Mrs L to provide her with information on her investments (I will return to 
the point about Mrs L opting out of correspondence later). Provider C was acting on 
information from Fund A and B and were not involved in decisions to suspend the underlying 
funds.
In 2014, Provider C transferred Funds A and B into alternative funds and wrote to all holders. 
I can see that the value of Fund A and B have fallen over the years that Mrs L has held the 
investments. 
As I explained earlier, I can only consider the actions of Vintage in this complaint and I cant 
see that Vintage have been responsible for any losses that Mrs L has incurred following the 
suspension and transfer of Fund A and B. 
Mrs L can complain directly to Provider C but Im not going to ask Vintage to do anything 
else here.Actions of Vintage and relationship with Mrs L
In her submission to the service, Mrs L has complained that Vintage failed in their duty of 
care to her and their actions, or lack of, resulted in her suffering a financial loss.
Mrs Ls investments were transferred into the agency of Vintage Financial Services in 2008 
and in 2014, the investments were transferred into Vintage. Around 2008, Vintage wrote to 
Mrs L saying that they would like to arrange a meeting to complete a risk profile and fact find 
so that they could update their records. Mrs L declined this meeting.
As Mrs L did not engaged with Vintage to complete a fact find and risk profile, Vintage would 
have been unable to advise on the suitability of her investments. I cant see that Vintage 
have acted unfairly here and I dont think that they are responsible for the initial advice or 
any subsequent reduction in value of Mrs Ls investments.
Having reviewed the file, I can see that Vintage have received ongoing commission from 
Provider C. In their final response to Mrs L, Vintage confirmed that this had been in place 
since 2008 and they were entitled to receive these payments.
Mrs L says that as Vintage were servicing agents and received copy correspondence from 
Provider C, they would have been aware of the falling value and should have made her 
aware. Mrs L says that her understanding of the commission that Vintage were receiving 
covered the cost of review meetings and a monitoring service.
Vintage did receive trail commission from the investments, but this is likely to have covered 
only the fact that the investments were introduced by them, or from a previous adviser who 
recommended them. I have not seen anything in the file that Vintage were responsible for 
any other service. Vintage did offer to meet with Mrs L to update their suitability records, but 
this was declined by Mrs L. 
In her submission to the service, Mrs L has said that she opted out of correspondence from 
Provider C and that Vintage received copies of any correspondence that was sent. Mrs L 
opted out of receiving correspondence in her initial bond application in 2001.
I acknowledge that Vintage would have received correspondence from Provider C in relation 
to the bonds, but they may have been unaware that Mrs L had opted out of receiving the 
same correspondence. I think that it is unreasonable to think that Vintage would have been 
aware of this opt out given that it occurred before their involvement.
I think that Vintage have acted fairly in providing Mrs L with information relating to her 
investments, but I dont agree that they had any duty to monitor the suitability of the 
investments as Mrs L had declined to update her personal information.
Mrs L has also complained that she was not aware of the tax treatment of the bonds and 
understood that withdrawals made on the bonds would always be tax free. In their final 
response to Mrs L, Vintage explained the tax implications and summarised the impact of 
withdrawals. As Vintage were not involved in the initial advice, I cant say that they have 
acted unfairly.
I sympathise with Mrs L that the value of her investments has reduced since the initial 
investment, but I dont think that Vintage have acted unfairly in their dealings with Mrs L. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman