DRN-1856238
The complaint
Miss R complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly turned down her 
mobile phone insurance claims.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020, which set out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to decide:
In the early hours of 30 December 2019, Miss R contacted Assurant to notify a claim 
on her Tech Pack insurance policy  reporting that shed lost two of her phones (an 
iPhone and a Samsung). She said she last remembered having them at her friends 
house around 11pm the previous night. She put them in her coat when they drove to 
her friends cousins house, stopping at a shop on the way. At the cousins house, she 
realised she no longer had her phones. After checking the car, shop and houses shed 
been at, she called her mobile network around 2am on the morning of the 29th to 
block them. As requested by Assurant, she provided letters from her network 
confirming that she last used her Samsung phone around 10.15pm and her iPhone 
around 10.30pm on 28 December 2019. 
In a follow-up call with Assurant, Miss R provided the location of the houses shed 
been at as well as the shop, where she said shed bought cigarettes with cash. She 
reiterated the timings shed previously given. Assurant asked why she had two phones 
on her. She said she always does as they have different numbers  and she also has 
a third phone but doesnt normally carry that as its mainly for work. She said she 
predominantly used the Samsung phone for watching things and banking, whereas 
she used the iPhone for social media. She confirmed she had iris identification (ID) 
and a pattern lock on her Samsung  and face ID and a passcode on her iPhone. She 
said she hadnt tried to locate her Samsung phone through her google account but 
confirmed it was connected and that only she knew the login details. Similarly, she 
confirmed that her iPhone was connected to her iCloud account and that no one else 
had the security details. She said shed used Find my iPhone on her iPad  she 
couldnt remember what it showed, but it hadnt located her phone. 
Assurant declined the claims. It said it had checked the relevant database, and this 
showed the phones had been blocked on 28 December 2019  the day before Miss R 
said shed reported them lost. She maintained that shed reported them at 2am on 
29 December 2019. She provided letters from the network saying both phones had 
been reported and blocked on the later date. Assurant didnt accept the letters  as 
they contradicted the information on the database. Miss R complained, but Assurant 
maintained that it had declined the claims fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
 
Our investigator disagreed. He pointed out that the time discrepancy was only a few 
hours  as Assurants information showed the phones had been blocked around 
11.30pm on 28 December 2019. This was consistent with Miss Rs last use of the phones. He concluded that fraud wasnt the more likely explanation for the 
discrepancy, and recommended that Assurant should reinstate the policy, honour the 
claims, and pay Miss R £150 compensation. Assurant disagreed, so our investigator 
explained to both sides that an ombudsman would make the final decision  and the 
case was passed to me.
In response, Miss R said the compensation should be increased  and Assurant 
should also cover her contract payments for her Samsung phone as she hadnt been 
able to use it. She noted that her iPhone was on a SIM-only contract.
Assurant provided records showing that the iPhone had been restored and unlocked 
on 5 February 2020. According to Apple (the phone manufacturer), the Apple ID and 
password associated with the phone would be needed to do this  and theyd also be 
needed to turn off Find My iPhone and log out of iCloud. Miss R says she doesnt 
know anything about her phone being restored  and only she has her Apple ID and 
password. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I agree with our investigator that the discrepancy around when the phones were 
reported lost isnt, by itself, enough to show that Miss R committed fraud. But I 
appreciate that Assurant has other concerns. For example, it says the letters she 
providedbranded from her mobile networkcontradict when it reported the phones 
lost on the relevant database. During the claim calls, Assurant also questioned why 
Miss R had two phones. And I note that shes only asked it to cover her Samsung 
contract  its unclear whether shes still paying her SIM-only contract for her iPhone.
Most significantly, Assurant has now provided evidence that the iPhone has been 
restored. Its my understanding that Apple has strong security, making it very difficult 
(and therefore unlikely) for a phone to be restored without the owners security details. 
Miss R hasnt been able to reasonably explain how someone could unblock her phone 
 and maintains that only she has the security information needed to do this. I also 
note that, since we told her that the phone had been unblocked, theres no suggestion 
shes contacted Apple or her network to challenge this  or that shes checked 
whether she can locate her phone from her iPad.
Theres a discrepancy between the records Assurant has provided and what Miss R 
has told us. When information is unclear or incomplete, our service generally has to 
decide whats more likely to have happened on the balance of probability. But our 
function makes that particularly difficult in some circumstances. Were an informal 
alternative to the courts. Unlike them, we cant compel third parties to provide 
evidence and we cant accept testimony under oath. That affects what information 
were able to consider  and what weight we can reasonably put on it. Additionally, as 
Miss R raised the complaint, I consider there to be an onus on her to demonstrate her 
case  i.e., that Assurant has acted unfairly. 
 
Here, Im conscious that the mobile network and manufacturer may have significant 
information about this case  such as independent confirmation of when the phones 
were reported lost; and details about how the iPhone has been restored and used. Additionally, Id be able to place more weight on what Miss R has told us if we could 
accept this under oath  meaning there would be serious repercussions for knowingly 
providing false information. But our service has no power to take testimony under oath 
 affecting what weight we can reasonably put on this form of evidence. As it is, the 
significant question of how someone could have restored Miss Rs phone without her 
security details remains unanswered. I consider it unfair to direct Assurant to honour 
the claim without knowing this.
In all the circumstances, Im not minded uphold this complaint. If Miss R wants to 
pursue it, she may be better off doing so through the courts  who will have different 
powers to consider it. Otherwise, both parties now have a chance to provide further 
information (such as information from the network or manufacturer) before I finalise my 
decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded not to uphold this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide further comments/evidence before I made my final decision. 
Assurant confirmed it accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. But 
Miss R didnt agree. She queried what other concerns Assurant had, and why wed only 
focussed on her iPhone when shed also claimed for another phone. She provided a 
screenshot showing two of her iPhones and an iPad as offline, and reported that shed now 
contacted Apple and her mobile network, whod told her:
The iPhone was blacklisted but unblocked
A blacklisted phone could still be used through Wi-Fi
The iPhone was being used on someone elses Apple ID, but it couldnt provide the 
details for privacy reasons
 
Miss R said that, by denying her claims, Im favouring Assurant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
My provisional decision summarised what Assurants concerns were: the date/time 
discrepancy; the letters Miss R provided; why she had multiple phones; and how the iPhone 
had been restored. I explained that I considered it unfair to direct Assurant to pay out the 
claim when the significant question of how someone could have restored her phone 
remained unanswered.
Whilst I empathise with the difficulty of Miss Rs situation, I think her response supports my 
position that its unfair to direct Assurant to honour her claims. I say this because the key 
question of how an unconnected individual could have restored her iPhone remains 
unanswered. Although shes told us Apple says the phone was used with another ID, we 
dont have any supporting evidence/details of who used it and how they did; nor do we have 
any direct statement from Apple  just reported evidence, which doesnt carry as much 
weight. 
Additionally, whilst the screenshot shes provided shows multiple offline devices, this can 
happen if a device is switched off or out of any mobile/Wi-Fi range. The spinning locating wheel on the screenshot also indicates that the search hadnt completed. So, this doesnt 
counteract Assurants information that the phone in question had been restored. Nor does it 
explain how someone could've either got hold of Miss R's security credentials or restored the 
phone without them. Weighing up her response against the information I previously had, Im 
still not comfortable directing Assurant to pay the claims.
Miss R has questioned why Ive only focussed on her iPhone and not her Samsung phone. 
As these claims were made at the same time under one insurance contract, in relation to the 
same incident of loss/theft, I wouldnt reasonably expect Assurant to pay out for either phone 
when the discrepancies highlighted havent been satisfactorily resolved.
Id like to reassure Miss R that Im not favouring Assurant or looking to disprove what shes 
told us. Its simply that, as the party bringing this complaint, there is an onus on her to show 
that Assurant treated her unfairly or contrary to the terms and conditions of the policy. I do 
appreciate why she may not be able to provide anything more persuasive to support her 
complaint. But this is how any dispute-resolution process operates: the claimant needs to 
establish a case to answer and support it with probative evidence. Its not fair to find against 
a party and order them to pay compensation purely on the basis of unsupported assertions 
by the claimant. 
Its a pity if, as Miss R reports, Apples staff couldnt provide her with documentary proof to 
corroborate that her phone was now linked to a third-party Apple ID. But thats precisely why 
I think the courts may be better placed to consider this dispute  given their powers to 
compel third parties to provide evidence and accept testimony under oath. 
I know this will be disappointing for Miss R. But, based on the inconsistencies and very 
limited information in support of the allegations, I cant safely conclude that Assurant has in 
all probability breached the insurance contract or otherwise acted unfairly  so I cant 
reasonably uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman