DRN-3881883
The complaint
Mr P complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their failure to arrange a 
repair for his appliance following the claim he made on his insurance policy.
What happened
On 12 September 2022, Mr P took out an insurance policy underwritten by DGI for his 
appliance. This policy commenced on 12 October.
On 29 October, Mr P called DGI to make a claim on this policy, after his appliance broke 
down. DGI instructed a repairer, who Ill refer to as S, to attend Mr Ps property and attempt 
a repair. But S cancelled this referral as they didnt complete repairs for the brand of 
appliance Mr P had. But Mr P wasnt made aware of this.
So, when S didnt attend his property, Mr P called DGI to complain. DGI recognised S were 
unable to complete the repair and so, they arranged for an alternative repairer, who Ill refer 
to as N, to attend Mr Ps property. But N also said they were unable to complete the repair, 
due to the make and size of Mr Ps appliance.
So, DGI gave Mr P the option of arranging a repair himself, explaining they would reimburse 
Mr P the costs of this. Mr P was unhappy about this, so he continued with his complaint.
Mr P was unhappy that S hadnt attended his property on the day that was arranged. Mr P 
explained hed taken a day off work to ensure he was available for this attendance and so, 
he wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience this had caused. And Mr P was 
unhappy that DGI had been unable to facilitate a repair overall, and he didnt think it was fair 
that he was now expected to arrange a repair himself.
DGI responded and didnt think they needed to do anything more. They thought theyd acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy Mr P held, when advising Mr P that he should 
source a repair himself and seek reimbursement from them for the associated costs. And 
DGI didnt think a set repair date had been given to Mr P, so, they didnt think they should 
compensate Mr P for S failure to attend his property. DGI explained Mr P was still able to 
seek reimbursement of any repair costs he incurred himself. Mr P remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially didnt uphold it. They thought DGI had 
acted within the terms of the policy when they decided to allow Mr P to arrange his own 
repair, as their two repairers were unable to repair the appliance. And they didnt think DGI 
needed to compensate Mr P for S failure to attend his property, as another repair had been 
arranged two days later. So, they didnt think DGI needed to do anything more.
Mr P disputed this, and he thought our investigator needed to listen to the call where he felt 
he was given a set appointment date. So, our investigator obtained and listened to this call. 
And following this, they agreed that Mr P had been told S would attend his property on 1 
November 2022. And our investigator had seen no evidence to show DGI had told Mr P that 
S wouldnt be attending beforehand. So, our investigator changed their view and 
recommended DGI pay Mr P £50 to recognise the inconvenience this caused.
DGI accepted this recommendation. But Mr P didnt. He didnt think the £50 was enough to 
compensate him for the upset he was caused by DGIs complaint handler, and their 
insistence that Mr P hadnt been given an appointment date, when he had. Mr P explained 
this made him feel as though DGI were accusing him of lying, and he wanted DGI to 
recognise and apologise for this. Our investigators view, and recommendation remained the 
same, and Mr P remained unhappy. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. In Mr Ps reply to our investigators compensation 
recommendation, Mr P commented on DGIs complaint handling, and how that process and 
outcome made him feel. But complaint handling is an unregulated activity, and so falls 
outside of our services jurisdiction. This means Im unable to consider, or comment upon, 
the way DGI handled Mr Ps complaint or the way in which they spoke to him and made him 
feel during this. And it also means any upset or inconvenience Mr P suffered during the 
complaint process cant be considered when I think about what a fair offer of compensation 
should be. 
Instead, my decision focuses on the actions DGI took, and the way they communicated with 
Mr P, during the actual claim process. And I note DGI have already accepted that they did in 
fact provide Mr P with an appointment date for the first repair due to be completed by S, 
when they shouldnt have done. And theyve accepted they failed to make Mr P aware that S 
had declined this appointment before it was due to take place. As this is accepted by DGI, I 
dont intend to discuss this further.
Instead, Ive focused on the main areas of dispute which centre around whether DGI were 
fair to expect Mr P to arrange his own repair. And then, what I think DGI need to do to 
address the failures theyve accepted that Ive detailed above.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr P held. And these explain that If we 
authorise a repair but are unable to find a repairer, well permit you to use your chosen 
repairer. You will have to pay them and claim the cost back from us.
In this situation, Ive seen system notes that show both S and N declined the repair referral 
from DGI, due to the brand and size of the appliance Mr P held. So, Im satisfied that DGI 
attempted, and failed, to find a repairer.
Because of this, I think DGI acted in line with the term Ive quoted above when advising Mr P 
that he could arrange his own repair and claim the cost of this repair back from them. And I 
think they acted fairly when doing so.
I recognise that Mr P hasnt yet done this, and I can understand why Mr P would feel as 
though this is an added inconvenience he didnt expect when taking out the policy. But I dont think DGI are responsible for the fact that two separate repairers were unable to 
complete the repair and so, I dont think theyve made an error which had led to this 
inconvenience. DGI have confirmed this option is still open to Mr P subject to payment of 
outstanding premiums for the policy itself, and it is Mr Ps own decision whether to continue 
with this or not.
Putting things right
Ive then turned to what I think DGI should do to put things right. When considering this, any 
award or direction I make is intended to place Mr P back in the position he wouldve been, 
had DGI acted fairly in the first instance.
In this case, I think Mr P would still have found himself in the same position regarding the 
repair of his appliance, as both S and N would have declined the repair referral and DGI 
wouldve advised Mr P to source his own repair and recoup the costs of this.
But, had DGI acted fairly, I think they wouldve recognised they gave Mr P a specific date for 
when S would attend his property to attempt a repair. And when S cancelled this 
appointment, I wouldve expected DGI to have realised this and made Mr P aware of this. If 
they had done this, Mr P wouldnt have needed to make plans to ensure he was in the 
property on the date the appointment was due. And so, Mr P wouldnt have been left feeling 
upset and frustrated when S didnt attend as he expected. So, I think DGI should 
compensate Mr P for this.
But I dont think this offer of compensation should consider any loss of earnings, as I think it 
was Mr Ps own decision to take a day off work to ensure he was at the property. In the call 
with DGI, Mr P didnt make DGI aware he would need to do this or discuss other potential 
appointment dates.
I recognise our investigator recommended DGI pay Mr P £50 to recognise the upset he was 
caused due to the failed appointment. And having considered all of the above, I think this 
payment is a fair one that falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it now already been 
made.
I think it fairly recognise the upset and inconvenience Mr P was caused, while also taking 
into consideration the fact the failed attendance only happened on one occasion. I think it 
also takes into consideration DGIs attempts to rectify the situation by arranging another 
repair, and that it wasnt within DGIs control to decide what the repairer were, and were not, 
able to repair. So, I think DGI should pay Mr P £50.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr P £50 to recognise the upset and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman