DRN-1526250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK Plc didnt tell them that the fixed interest rate 
product on their mortgage account was coming to an end. They also feel that the Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) applied was excessive, causing them additional expenses. 
Mr and Mrs T want Santander to back-date their product transfer rate. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held a mortgage with Santander. They had a two-year fixed interest rate of 
1.74% until 2 November 2018. They complain that they didnt receive any communication 
from Santander regarding their fixed rate ending. This was because Santander held the 
wrong address for them. As a result, their mortgage balance reverted to the standard 
variable rate. Mr and Mrs T paid two monthly instalments on the higher rate before fixing 
their interest rate for a further two years at a rate of 1.59% until 24 January 2021.
Santander upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in part. It felt the mortgage reverting to the 
standard variable rate was done correctly and fairly. But it did recognise that when Mr and 
Mrs T got in touch to ask for their new product to be backdated, it did not respond to their 
request within 10 working days as agreed. Santander paid Mr and Mrs T £25 to 
acknowledge its error. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to 
our service. Our investigator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Ts complaint be upheld as he 
felt that Santander made Mr and Mrs T aware of the terms of their mortgage and the expiry 
of the fixed rate product. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed and responded to say that it was unfair for Santander to apply the 
SVR as they were not made aware the rate would increase as it did. The complaint has now 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander issued its mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs T in September 2016. In line with the 
relevant rules, the offer made it clear when the fixed rate would come to an end. 
The rules say that a lender must give appropriate notice to a customer that includes the 
amount of the payments to be made after the new interest-rate change takes effect; and 
where the number or frequency of the payments will change, give particulars of these 
changes.
Santanders records show that it sent Mr and Mrs T a notification of interest-rate changes 
letter on 3 November 2018. This was sent to the address it held on file and contained all the 
necessary information as outlined in the rules. Mr and Mrs T say they did not receive this 
because Santander had their postcode recorded incorrectly. Santander has provided evidence to show that it used the postcode provided by Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor to send 
correspondence to. 
A conversation took place between Santander and Mr T in September 2016 regarding the 
postcode details. Mr T said that hed be in touch again if the postcode Santander had 
recorded needed amending. Ive not seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs T told 
Santander that their postcode was wrong until at least January 2019. I say this because their 
product transfer offer, dated 11 January 2019, was sent to the same postcode on file. The 
final response letter from Santander dated 12 February 2019 was sent using a different 
postcode. 
Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied that Santander provided Mr and Mrs T with all 
the necessary information relating to the terms of their mortgage and the change to their 
interest rate. Ive considered what Mr and Mrs T have said about the issue with their address 
records, but it would be unfair for me to hold Santander responsible for any mail that did not 
reach Mr and Mrs T. I say this because it sent correspondence to the address it was 
provided with.
Nevertheless, Ive considered the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs T. Regardless of them 
saying they didnt receive the notification of interest-rate changes letter, Im satisfied they 
were aware of the upcoming changes. I say this because, as well as details of their 
mortgage being provided in their offer letter, Mr T also told Santander during a call in 
October 2018 that he was aware his fixed rate was soon coming to an end and chose not to 
be transferred to an advisor to discuss options further, when offered. So, I dont think they 
were at any loss by not receiving the correspondence as they were already aware their fixed 
rate was ending. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T feel it was unfair for Santander to apply such a high increase in 
interest rates. But the offer set out that when the fixed rate ended the mortgage would switch 
to the SVR. It goes on to explain that after 2 November 2018 the loan will be on a variable 
rate and that the monthly payment could be considerably different if interest rates increase  
it gave an example of a payment of over £3,000 So I think that Santander took reasonable 
steps to tell Mr and Mrs T that the SVR could be much higher than what they were paying 
under the fixed rate. In view of that, and as Ive already found that Santander gave 
reasonable notice of the change in payment, I dont think the amount they had to pay was 
unfair.  
Our role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstance of each case. Having 
carefully considered everything, I think Santander has acted fairly, for the reasons above. I 
dont uphold this complaint and dont require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman