DRN-1209190
 
The complaint
Mr W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy in June 2010. 
What happened
In 2005 Mr W took out a mortgage with Santander. Five years later, when he took out a new 
mortgage product, he purchased a MPPI policy. The policy cost £42.12 each month and it 
covered him in the event that he couldnt work due to accident or sickness or unemployment. 
And it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £543 for up to 12 months following a 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I think its likely Santander made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the MPPI and he 
chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if he cant remember this given 
how long ago it was.
The policy was taken out during a telephone call five years after the mortgage started  so 
its clear to me that taking MPPI cant have been a condition of the mortgage and Mr W 
couldnt have thought he had to take the policy.
Unfortunately Santander doesnt have a copy of the call recording between itself and Mr W  
but this isnt surprising given it is nearly 10 years since that telephone call took place. It has 
however provided a copy of the call script that it says its representatives used at the time. 
And having considered this carefully, Im satisfied that the way MPPI was presented by 
Santander at the time Mr W took out the policy showed that it was optional, and that a 
customer would need to agree to a policy before it was set up. Furthermore, the mortgage 
offer paperwork says that there wasnt any insurance that customers needed to take out with 
Santander. And as Mr W wouldve needed to complete a separate direct debit mandate to 
pay for the MPPI, I dont think its likely it was sold to him without either his knowledge or his 
consent.
Santander didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs K, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right or suitable for them. But it still had to give him enough information about it so that he 
could decide himself whether or not he wanted it.I dont know what information Santander gave Mr W or how it was presented, so its possible 
he didnt get everything he needed. But Ive looked at Mrs Ws circumstances at the time to 
establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference to his 
decision to take the MPPI.
I think Mr W wouldve been able to benefit from the full range of cover that he paid for. He 
wouldnt have been excluded from claiming under any of the main terms or exclusions of the 
policy  he told us he was employed and in good health. And Mr Ws representative told us 
that he would only have received limited sick pay if he wasnt working due to an accident or 
sickness. And as he had no other means, I think the policy wouldve been useful to them.
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the cover it provided and it was a regular premium 
one  so if he decided it was no longer affordable or that he no longer needed it  he 
couldve cancelled it without penalty at any point.
So I dont think that if Mr W didnt get all the information he needed (and I dont know with 
any certainty that he didnt) that this wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy the 
policy. I cant fairly say on the information provided that Santander mis-sold the policy to 
Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman