DRN-4306634
The complaint
X complains that Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limiteds advice not to transfer the 
defined benefits in his deferred occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension 
was unsuitable. 
What happened
X approached Wren Sterling in early 2022 to discuss a potential transfer of his OPS to a 
personal pension. X had the opportunity of financial advice from Wren Sterling that would be 
paid for by his OPS provider.
In summary, Wren Sterling recorded Xs circumstances at the time of advice as follows:
X was aged 53, married with  financially dependent children
X had a further personal pension with a fund value of £680,000. He had £250,000 in 
other investments and around £288,000 in cash savings.
X owned his residence, valued around £1,000,000 and a rental property valued 
around £320,000. He had an outstanding mortgage balance around £670,000.
Wren Sterling recorded Xs stated objectives as:
To retire at 55 whilst he was fit enough to enjoy it. He had been diagnosed with 
 and was being treated at the time of advice.
Wanting flexibility and estimated needing a household income around £11,250 a 
month in early stages of retirement, reducing as he got older.
To leave the maximum possible lump sum death benefits for his family
Wren Sterling issued its written recommendation to X in a suitability report in April 2022. It 
explained the value of the benefits in the OPS and the comparative value of those with 
transferring the estimated cash equivalent transfer value (CETV). And explained that it didnt 
think a transfer was suitable for X for the following reasons:
It couldnt assess the implication of Xs  diagnosis as having an impact on his 
life expectancy based on what it knew at that time. It had suggested waiting until a 
prognosis was better understood, but X confirmed he didnt want to wait and would 
have considered transferring even if he hadnt known about his health condition.
Wren Sterling considered that Xs existing defined contribution pension funds and 
non-pension assets could be used to provide a legacy in the event of Xs death and 
that his deferred OPS benefits were his only secure income source before reaching 
state pension age.
Giving up his guaranteed OPS benefits wasnt key to Xs ability to retire at age 55 or 
having a flexible income stream. He had other potential income streams in the form 
of rental income, investments, and defined contribution pension income. Plus the 
potential for a significant pension commencement lump sum from the OPS at the 
point X decides to start taking that.
Simply having control over the transfer value as a pension fund is not a good enough 
reason to make a transfer in Xs best interests. 
Wren Sterling explained that X was still a year and a half from being able to take any 
pension benefits. So didnt need to commit to giving up his OPS benefits at this 
stage. He potentially wouldnt need to consider accessing this OPS for years given 
the size of his other assets.
X disagreed with Wren Sterlings recommendation. He complained about the suitability of its 
advice. He didnt think it had properly considered his overall circumstances. He thought that 
the advice may have been bias as Wren Sterlings advice was funded by the OPS. X 
explained that his CETV had dropped leaving him potentially much worse off if he were to 
transfer against Wren Sterlings advice.
Wren Sterling didnt uphold Xs complaint so X brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and explained why she didnt think that Wren 
Sterling had treated X unfairly. X didnt accept this opinion and asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint about pension transfer advice, whether that advice was to 
transfer or not to, I take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Wren Sterling's actions here.
PRIN 2.1 - Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1 - Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair, and not 
misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a defined benefit OPS transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that 
the starting assumption for a transfer from a defined benefit OPS is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Wren Sterling should have only recommended a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Xs best interests. 
Was Wren Sterlings advice unsuitable?Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
I can see that part of the reason for Xs complaint is that he doesnt think that Wren Sterling 
gave adequate consideration to his health. Or that Wren Sterling didnt explain the 
importance of that on the recommendation it would ultimately make. Ive considered this but I 
dont think that Wren Sterling acted unfairly. It set out its advice process in a fair and clear 
way. And Wren Sterling explain that it actively discouraged X from going through the advice 
process at the time he did, because his diagnosis was quite new. It appears that it made it 
clear that it might be able to better assess the impact of it when the full implications were 
better understood. I think it was a good example of Wren Sterling complying with principles 6 
and 7, and with COBS 2.1.1R above.
Wren Sterling had a regulatory responsibility to analyse Xs pension transfer in a certain 
way. It included obtaining the Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). And Wren Sterling 
explained in its suitability report that the TVC showed that the cost of providing the benefits 
already available in the OPS was over £400,000 more than the CETV (which was around 
£770,000). Whilst that calculation is based on a figure being invested at a risk free return, 
when X was prepared to take some risk in investment returns, it is still a large gap. And 
indicated how valuable the benefits in Xs OPS already were.
In this case though Wren Sterling also showed a critical yield. Which are the average annual 
returns needed on the CETV to provide the same benefits as the OPS would. To age 65 that 
was 3.4% a year for the 11 years left to the scheme retirement age of 65. Wren Sterling 
assessed this as potentially being achievable for someone with Xs attitude to investment 
risk. Which may not have been unreasonable. But also indicated that taking benefits earlier 
meant a higher investment return was needed. Giving a comparison at age 55  when X 
wanted to retire  where a return of over 30% was needed. Which clearly was not 
achievable. So I think there was still a risk that transferring would leave X with benefits that 
were, overall, of a lower value. 
Wren Sterling looked at Xs overall financial circumstances though. Which I would expect it 
to have done. And it determined that X was likely to be able to achieve his objective of early 
retirement without having to transfer his OPS benefits. He had a defined benefit personal 
pension with a fund value around £680,000. And also had access to other savings and 
investments that were over £500,000. And Wren Sterling were also aware of a defined 
contribution that Xs wife had with a fund size around £150,000. 
Wren Sterling came to the conclusion that, in spite of the fact that Xs pension may grow to a 
position where at age 65 it might be able to provide equivalent benefits to his OPS, X didnt 
need to take the risk to be able to meet his objectives. Wren Sterling simply didnt think it 
was in Xs best interests to take on all of the investment risk with his OPS, that would still 
form an important part of his income in retirement. And I think that was a fair and reasonable 
conclusion for it to reach.
Im sorry to hear of the health issues that X has. It must have been a lot to deal with by itself 
without considerations regarding his retirement planning. It explored his physical health in a 
reasonable way. But, given the information that Wren Sterling had, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to consider that it was quite likely that these benefits would have to 
provide for a long retirement. Which was the primary purpose of the guaranteed benefits in 
that OPS.
And Xs OPS offered a spouse benefit that was 67% of the pre-commuted pension. Wren 
Sterling provided X with a comparison of death benefits. It showed that the capital value of 
the death benefits in the OPS were better than the CETV. And that it would take around ten years before the opposite became true. And that was based on an assumption where no 
income was being taken or eroding the residual fund value that was transferred. When Wren 
Sterling understood that X would be financing his retirement from age 55 across a number of 
sources of income. So I think it would have been unreasonable for Wren Sterling to have 
downplayed the importance or value of the death benefits that X already had with his OPS. 
I understand that X wanted to transfer the CETV to a personal pension. And I am sure he 
had considered his options quite carefully. But our service doesnt expect financial advisers 
to simply facilitate a customers wishes. Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R are clear on that. I 
would expect Wren Sterling to fully assess the circumstances and make its own 
recommendation based on that. 
In deciding a fair and reasonable outcome for his complaint I also need to recognise that 
COBS 19.1.16 placed a strict regulatory presumption on Wren Sterling in considering this 
type of transfer. As I referred to earlier, Wren Sterling could only recommend the transfer for 
X if it could clearly demonstrate  that the transfer was in his best interests. It has explained 
that it wasnt able to clearly demonstrate that. And for the above reasons, I dont think that its 
conclusion and therefore its advice was unsuitable. 
X has expressed a concern that Wren Sterlings recommendation was biased by the fact that 
it was being paid for by his OPS. But I have seen no evidence of that being the case. Wren 
Sterlings recommendation is specifically tailored to Xs circumstances and I consider it to 
have followed the rules and guidance for advising on pension transfers. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman