DRN-4329771
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his property insurer AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited cancelling his policy because he hadnt 
declared two claims.
What happened
In 2022 Mr R arranged new cover with AA. He told AA about a claim with 
his previous insurer. Shortly after the cover began, AA checked the 
industry database and found that Mr R had made three claims with his 
previous insurer. It said it was cancelling his cover and hed have to 
declare that to future insurers. 
Mr R wasnt happy. He said he had disclosed the other two claims. AA 
said it had listened to the call and he hadnt. Mr R said he was an honest 
person and must have made a mistake, he hoped AA could be lenient 
with him. When AA wasnt prepared to change its mind Mr R found cover 
elsewhere at a higher price and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator noted that Mr R hadnt disclosed the claims and that 
relevant legislation (CIDRA) allows for AA to cancel in that circumstance. 
So he didnt think AA had done anything wrong. Mr R remained unhappy 
 he said this was a minor transgression by him and hed hoped AA 
could have shown some understanding and not blacklisted him on the 
industry database. His complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt it should be upheld. In short, I thought that AA shouldve allowed Mr 
R to cancel the cover. I said it should amend the record of the 
cancellation and pay £150 compensation.
AA said it had no comment to make. Mr R said he was pleased that the 
record of the cancellation would be changed  but that he felt the 
compensation award should be increased as this had been very 
stressful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Having done so Im minded to uphold it. Thats because whilst CIDRA 
does allow AA to act like this, it also allows for the insurer letting the 
policyholder action the cancellation. If AA had done that then the impact 
of the cancellation on Mr R would have been very different.
I understand how Mr R feels  he thinks hes been made out to be 
dishonest but he never meant to mislead AA. On this point I need to 
explain that CIDRA, as a piece of legislation, was put in place to ensure 
that both parties know their rights and obligations when arranging 
insurance. CIDRA requires that the prospective policyholder takes care 
when arranging insurance to tell the insurer everything it asks about. 
And if a prospective policyholder doesnt do that, even if their omission 
was just due to a mistake, the insurer, if it otherwise wouldnt have 
entered into the contract, can still take action to end their relationship. 
So Mr R may feel his honesty is in doubt. But that is not the case here. 
AA has not sought to show Mr R acted deliberately or recklessly, only 
carelessly. Here it is an issue of Mr R not taking reasonable care to 
make sure to tell AA about the previous claims hed had. 
I know Mr R didnt view incidents with a chair as claims. But he had told 
his then insurer of damage which was covered by his policy. And he 
then had a benefit from the policy in both those instances. A claim 
doesnt always necessitate a benefit being derived. But here it is clear 
that claims were made and logged by the previous insurer. With their 
date meaning they were caught by the clear question AA had asked 
about previous claims in the last five years. So Mr R made a mistake 
when he thought they did not need to be disclosed, meaning he didnt 
take reasonable care to answer AAs question to the best of his 
knowledge.
AA has shown this service that had Mr R told it of these claims when 
asked, it wouldnt have offered him cover. Which means that Mr R made 
what CIDRA refers to as a qualifying misrepresentation and AA had the 
right to act to end the relationship.  But CIDRA recognises that having a policy cancelled for a policyholder 
can have significant consequences. So in the circumstance of a careless 
misrepresentation, where no claim has been made, CIDRA allows, 
where the insurer has explained it will be cancelling the policy, for the 
policyholder to undertake that cancellation. That way they do not have to 
declare to other insurers that theyve had a cancellation by an insurer. 
And here that is all Mr R wants/wanted  to not have to declare this 
cancellation because it came from what he believes was an honest 
mistake by a loyal customer of many years. 
I expect AA will think that Mr R wouldnt have taken the option to cancel, 
even if it had given it to him. But I dont agree. I think that in this 
circumstance AA should have been frank with Mr R; letting him know 
that whilst he could still complain, in the meantime it would either cancel 
the cover with all that would mean, or he could cancel it. The latter 
meaning he would not have to declare it. I think Mr R is a pragmatic man 
who would have then instructed AA to cancel the cover. So I think AA 
did fail Mr R by not properly informing him and giving him the reasonable 
choice allowed for by CIRDA  to cancel the cover himself.
I understand Mr R did find other cover following AAs cancellation. 
Although at an increased price. With that cover having recently been due 
for renewal. He can ask that insurer, and if he changed insurer at 
renewal, any he took out cover with then, to recalculate his premium 
based on him having cancelled rather than AA having done so. If he is 
unhappy with any answer received then he can make a further complaint 
about that insurers answer. I cant reasonably require AA to make up for 
any increased costs Mr R incurred over and above what it had charged 
him for cover because that price and cover couldnt remain due to the 
claims which werent disclosed. And the true price of cover was always 
likely to have been impacted by the correct number of claims.
I can see this has been upsetting for Mr R. I think AA should pay him 
£150 compensation.
I note Mr R feels the compensation award should be increased. And I do 
understand this has been a stressful situation for him. But I was aware of 
the upset Mr R had faced when I issued my provisional decision. 
Mr R arranged the cover in May and it was the end of June when AA 
wrote to him giving notice of the cancellation. It was only really at this 
time that Mr R started to experience distress and inconvenience, with AA 
issuing its final response within about six weeks and Mr R making his complaint to us. 
I know hes felt victimised by AA and let down  but I must bear in mind 
that he felt that because he thought it had no right to end the relationship 
with him. As Ive explained, it did, but it should have let Mr R enact that 
cancellation. I remain of the view that £150 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances here.  
Having reviewed matters, my provisional findings have not changed. 
They, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my 
final decision.
Putting things right
I require AA to:
Amend its own and any industry records to show the policy was 
cancelled by Mr R.
Pay Mr R £150 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman