DRN-3165826
The complaint
Mr P feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly applied charges and interest to his account 
when he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr P complained to Barclays about overdraft charges and interest applied to his account 
over the previous eight years. He said these charges contributed to his financial difficulties.
Barclays did not uphold the complaint, so Mr P referred his concerns to us. Barclays went on 
to say that it would not consent to us looking at any charges applied prior to May 2014, as 
any complaint about those charges would have been made to late.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns, she agreed with Barclays that we could 
only look at charges from 2014 onwards. She also explained that she didnt think Barclays 
had acted unfairly in applying the charges to Mr Ps account. Mr P disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found
online.
Mr P has complained about charges applied to his account over the eight years before he 
made his complaint  so from 2012 onwards. This means that Mr P had, at least, six years 
from the date the charges were added in order to complain. Mr P didnt complain until 2020, 
so he complained more than six years after some of the events he is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Mr P with longer to complain here.
But I think that Mr P would have been aware of the charges that Barclays was applying to his 
account at the time. And hed have been aware of his financial circumstances during that 
period of time too, so hed have known whether he was able to afford to pay the charges. As 
this is the case, I think that Mr P also ought to have known whether the charges were too 
much or causing him difficulty. So I think Mr P would have known he had cause to complain 
as soon as the charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Mr P 
with longer to complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that his complaint about 
charges from before May 2014 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. But Mr P hasnt told us about anything that stopped 
him from complaining earlier, so I dont think exceptional circumstances were responsible for 
the delay.
I can though, look at charges applied to Mr Ps account from May 2014 onwards.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Ps complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged Mr P over the years were fair and reasonable. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it continued to apply interest, fees and charges to his 
account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr P fairly and 
reasonably.
I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr P unfairly or unreasonably though. Looking at the 
statements for his two accounts, I can see that there were occasions when lots of items were 
being returned unpaid. But on one of Mr Ps accounts  ending *492  those retuned items 
didnt lead to many charges being incurred. On this account there were also regular periods 
where his account was in credit and operating well. When Mr P stopped using this account in 
2019, but left an outstanding overdrawn balance without making any payments in to reduce 
it, Barclays took steps to close the account to its recoveries department, hence stopping any 
further charges or interest from being applied. This is what we would expect Barclays to 
have done in the circumstances.
Mr Ps other account  ending *321  did show more signs of difficulties. There were many 
returned items on this account and they did incur returned item fees, but this appears to be 
because Mr P had set up direct debits but wasnt consistently paying in enough to cover 
them. And after this situation had been going on for a few months Barclays once again took 
steps to close Mr Ps account and passed it to the recoveries department in 2016  where 
charges and fees could be stopped. Again, this seems like a reasonable step for Barclays to 
have taken in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P but, overall, I do think Barclays took 
appropriate action to assist Mr P with his account, and so I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman