DRN-3883113
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car provided to her under a hire agreement regulated 
by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 taken out with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi)  
previously known as Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC.
What happened
Miss F approached a company that I will call H for a car. 
On 4 June 2020 Miss F signed a number of documents, including a statement of needs, an 
information notice, an order form and a terms and conditions of business. 
On 5 June 2020 Miss F signed a hire agreement (with Mitsubishi) for the car. Under the 
terms of this hire agreement  everything else being equal  Miss F undertook to pay 60 
monthly rentals of £354.82. The allowable mileage (without a charge being payable) was 
40,000, equating to 8,000 a year. 
On 24 June 2020 Mitsubishi wrote to Miss F to say her hire agreement had started on 
19 June 2020. 
About three months after taking delivery of the car Miss F says a dashboard light came on 
that caused her concern. 
On 27 October 2020 Miss F had the car inspected at a manufacturers garage. 
On 9 December 2020 Miss F called a roadside recovery business out to the car. 
On 15 December 2020 Miss F had the car inspected at a manufacturers garage. 
On 6 January 2021 H wrote to Miss F to say it wasnt upholding the complaint she had made 
to it.
On 9 February 2021 the BVRLA wrote to Miss F to say that it wasnt upholding the complaint 
she had made to it about H. 
On 10 February 2021 the manufacturer wrote to Miss F to say that it wasnt upholding the 
complaint she had made to it.
On 1 March 2021 Mitsubishi wrote to Miss F to say it wasnt upholding the complaint she had 
made to it. 
On 8 March 2021 Miss F called a roadside recovery business out to the car.
On 18 March 2021 Miss F had the car inspected at a manufacturers garage. 
After the above inspection Miss F says she continued to use the car but with the dashboard 
light permanently illuminated. 
In August 2021 Miss F referred a complaint to our service. 
In January 2022 one of our investigators wrote to both parties to say that he was upholding 
Miss Fs complaint (on the grounds that she was supplied with a car that wasnt of 
satisfactory quality) and that Mitsubishi should:
Collect the car at no cost to Miss F.
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund 25% of each monthly instalment paid by Miss F under the agreement from 
August 2020 to the date of settlement, together with interest.
Pay Miss F £200 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused.
Miss F accepted the investigators view, but Mitsubishi didnt respond to it. 
Because Mitsubishi didnt respond to the investigators view the complaint was passed to me 
for review and a decision. 
In September 2022 Miss F informed our service that the car had been stolen and the same  
had been reported to both the police and the insurance company. Miss F added that the 
insurance was in her partners name and the insurance company had confirmed that matters 
would be sorted out between it and Mitsubishi. Miss F says the car had travelled 
approximately 6,000 miles when it was stolen. 
In December 2022 Mitsubishi confirmed to our service that the agreement, following 
payment from the insurer, had been settled. 
In December 2022 Miss F confirmed to our service that the agreement had been settled in 
full (with her partner liable for a £500 insurance excess) and that what she was now looking 
for by way of compensation from Mitsubishi was a refund of 25% of the payments made by 
her against the agreement from August 2020 (together with interest) plus £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience the whole matter had caused her.
In December 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss F complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can 
consider Miss Fs complaint about Mitsubishi. When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, 
regulations and guidance. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this 
complaint. This explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Mitsubishi 
here  needs to make sure the goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality 
is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
It seems to me in a case like this involving a car, that a court would consider relevant 
factors to include, but not be limited to, things like the cars age, price, mileage and 
description. I should also point out in this case that the CRA specifically explains that 
the durability of goods should be considered a part of whether they are of satisfactory 
quality. 
The car Miss F got was brand new and from a premium manufacturer. She was 
paying over £350 a month to hire the car. And, in total, she was due to spend over 
£21,000 to hire the car over the total period. Keeping this in mind, I think a 
reasonable person would have very high expectations for the quality of the car and I 
think they would expect trouble free motoring for a significant amount of time. 
What I first I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Miss F was 
of satisfactory quality or not. 
Its not in dispute that the problems Miss F experienced with the car, resulting in her 
having to (on two separate occasions) call out a roadside recovery business and 
having to (on three separate occasions) take it to a manufacturers garage for 
inspection (and as I understand for work to be undertaken), were due to issues with 
the diesel particle filter (DPF). 
But whereas Miss F says this isnt acceptable and Mitsubishi should compensate her, 
Mitsubishi says its simply down to Miss Fs driving style, in particular her failure to 
undertake regular journeys (approximately 13 journeys per every 10 days) at 
speeds between 30-50 MPH for 20-40 minutes as outlined in the drivers manual. 
And because of this it shouldnt have to compensate her anything. 
I accept what Mitsubishi says about what was required of Miss F to ensure the 
successful regeneration of the DPF, but Im not persuaded this is the reason for the 
problems Miss F has experienced. 
I find Miss Fs submission that after the problem with the DPF was first diagnosed 
she took steps to ensure that she heeded the advice in the drivers manual to be both 
plausible and persuasive. I would also not expect, regardless of Miss Fs driving 
style, for the problem with the DPF to reoccur as quickly as it did after each 
inspection (and after what I understand was work undertaken) by a manufacturers 
garage. And because of this, Im satisfied that the car supplied to Miss F was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Having concluded that Miss F was supplied with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality, what I now need to decide is what Mitsubishi should have to do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate her. 
The investigator concluded that Mitsubishi should have to refund Miss F 25% of the 
monthly payments she made against the agreement from August 2020 onwards, to 
reflect the impaired use she had of the car. But taking everything into account my 
view is that Mitsubishi should refund 15% of the monthly payments Miss F made 
against the agreement and from October 2020 onwards. I say this for the following 
reasons:
Miss F had the worry of driving the car between the end of September 2020 
(when the dashboard light first came on) and March 2021 (when, after a third 
inspection, the dashboard light came on again) through what Ive found to be 
no fault of her own. And she should be compensated for this.
Miss F had the worry of driving the car between March 2021 (after the third 
inspection) and August 2022 (when the car was stolen) with the dashboard 
light permanently on through what Ive found to be no fault of her own. And 
she should be compensated for this.
Miss F has confirmed the dashboard light came on (for the first time) 
approximately three months after she took delivery of the car, the end of 
September 2020. 
Although Miss F had the above worry (and upset) she has submitted to our 
service that rather than driving the car less than she would have otherwise 
done, she drove it more than she would have otherwise done to try and 
remedy the issues with the DPF. And in my view, when this fact is taken into 
account (even with the added diesel costs and expenditure of time this clearly 
would have involved), a 25% refund of agreement payments made, is simply 
too high  15% being a more appropriate sum. 
The investigator concluded that Mitsubishi should pay Miss F £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience this whole matter has caused her. And taking everything into 
account, including the number of times Miss F had to call out a roadside recovery 
business and had to take the car to a manufacturers garage, I find that such a sum 
to be both fair and reasonable.
Miss F responded to say she accepted my provisional findings.
Mitsubishi confirmed receipt of my provisional findings but submitted nothing in response to 
them for my consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Because Miss F accepted my provisional findings and because Mitsubishi didnt submit 
anything in response to them  at least by the date I gave for any submissions  I can 
confirm that I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them 
as final. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc must:
refund Miss F 15% of each hire payment she made against the agreement from 
October 2020 onwards*
pay Miss F £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience she has been caused by 
the whole matter
ensure any adverse information in respect of the agreement recorded with credit 
reference agencies is removed 
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss F how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman