DRN-1790123
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined a claim made under 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S held a bank account which provided worldwide travel insurance as an additional 
benefit. The travel insurance policy is underwritten by a third party and serviced by 
AXA.
In January 2019, Mr B booked a trip abroad for himself and his family. The trip was due to 
start in late July 2019 and end in August 2019. Following the terrorist attacks in the 
country, Mr S cancelled the trip in May 2019, and then made a claim under his policy in 
mid-June 2019.
Mr S sent AXA his claim documents on numerous occasions because they weren't 
receiving them. AXA finally received the documents in late July 2019 and declined the 
claim in August 2019. They said Mr Ss reasons for cancelling the trip didnt fall within the 
policy terms. They noted the policy terms didnt cover claims which arose from terrorist 
attacks or travel to countries the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadn't advised 
against visiting.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he made the claim because he was told AXA would treat his 
claim sympathetically despite the policy guidelines during a call he'd had with them in early 
June 2019. He also said he was unhappy he had to contact AXA numerous times to send 
his claims documents.
AXA accepted there was a delay in processing the claim because of their failure to receive 
the claims documents, and offered Mr S £50 compensation to apologise. They said they 
felt theyd applied the policy terms correctly when assessing Mr Ss claim. They also said 
the FCO hadnt advised against travel to his holiday destination at the time of departure or 
when he'd cancelled the trip, or at the time they were reviewing his claim. So, they didnt 
think this was the reason for the cancellation. Mr S didnt agree and asked this service to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt AXA had reasonably declined the 
claim because the FCO werent advising against travel to the holiday destination at both 
the time the trip was cancelled, and when it was due to start the following month. She also 
said there had been some customer service failings, but she felt £50 was a fair and 
reasonable offer for the distress and inconvenience Mr S had suffered as a result.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 March 2020. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided to uphold 
it in part. I'll explain why.
Mr Ss claim
I need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the policy 
exclusions they quoted to decline Mr Ss claim. And in the circumstances, I think it was. 
The policy terms say AXA wont pay for claims which arise directly or indirectly from war 
risks, civil commotion, terrorism, sonic bangs or radioactive contamination. The terms 
also say AXA wont pay for claims which arise directly or indirectly from travel to a 
country, area or event which the FCO or World Health Organisation advise the public not 
to travel to.
Mr S told us that part of his holiday had been cancelled in late May 2019, by the company 
providing the villa accommodation, due to the terrorist attacks the month before. He also 
said that at that time the FCO guidance had been not to travel to his holiday destination 
unless the travel was essential. Mr S said that because of this, he'd decided to cancel the 
remainder of his holiday in mid-June 2019 after he'd spoken to AXA. He told us that he 
was unhappy as he felt AXA hadnt considered what the FCO advice was when hed 
cancelled his holiday.
Ive seen that when AXA initially declined Mr Ss claim in mid-August 2019, they said that 
this was because at that time the FCO guidance didnt advise against travel to their 
holiday destination. And I recognise that Mr S felt hed been treated unfairly when he 
received this response from them, as they didnt take into consideration the 
circumstances of his claim and the FCO guidance at the time hed actually cancelled his 
trip.
But Ive also seen that when Mr S approached AXA about this again, they sent a further 
letter with a different reason for declining his claim. In this letter they explained that the 
FCO hadnt advised against travelling to his holiday destination at the time Mr S cancelled 
his trip, and they had downgraded their warning a couple of weeks before. Although Mr S 
remains unhappy with AXAs response, they did reconsider the claim after he contacted 
them to raise his concerns. So, I cant say AXA treated Mr S unfairly.
I've looked at evidence submitted from both parties, and publicly available information 
such as the FCO website for the dates in question. And I've seen that when Mr Ss 
accommodation was cancelled by the provider in May 2019, the FCOs guidance was not 
to travel to the country unless it was essential. However, by the time Mr S had cancelled 
the remainder of his trip which he was claiming for in mid-June 2019, the FCO guidance 
had been changed and was no longer warning against travelling to his holiday destination 
 although it did say there had been a terrorist attack in April 2019 and gave a warning of 
potential further attacks.
I recognise this would have been a worrying time for Mr S, and its likely he wouldve still 
had concerns about travelling, but claims arising from terrorist attacks are not covered 
under the policy terms. And the FCO guidance at the time of the cancellation didnt say Mr 
S shouldnt travel to his holiday destination. So, I cant reasonably say AXA have treated 
him unfairly by not paying his claim for the parts of the holiday which were cancelled after 
the change in guidance had been updated several weeks earlier.
Mr S says he made the claim because he was told AXA would consider it 
sympathetically, despite the policy guidelines, when he called them in June 2019. Ive 
listened to the call  which confirms the agent did say AXA wouldnt normally cover 
cancellations in his circumstances. But, would look into the claim as they were aware it 
was affecting so many people. The agent also suggested Mr S should provide a letter 
from his travel agent or airline, to confirm they wouldnt be able to cover the costs. So, I can see why Mr S understood this to mean his claim would be considered in his 
circumstances.
However, Ive noted that the agent also said they couldnt guarantee his trip would be 
covered. So, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr S that AXA would consider his claim 
but may not cover the cancellation. In light of the above, and based on the circumstances 
of this case, I dont think AXA have treated Mr S unfairly. So I won't be asking them to do 
anything more for this part of the complaint.
Delays in processing the claim
AXA have acknowledged Mr S did correctly send his claims documents on numerous 
occasions between June 2019 and July 2019. They accept there was a delay in 
progressing Mr Ss claim due to failure of not receiving the documents and have said this 
was caused by an error.
I need to consider whether I think £50 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for 
the trouble and upset AXAs errors caused Mr S. Mr S says he had to send his claims 
documents up to 11 times before AXA received them. Ive seen evidence of email chains 
between Mr S and AXA which show he was trying to send the emails as directed, and a 
screen shot of Mr Ss sent emails - which also show he resent and forwarded emails to 
AXA about his claim.
Ive also listened to the calls Mr S made to AXA. The calls suggest Mr S had resent the 
claims documents correctly at least three times before AXA successfully received them. 
Each agent Mr S spoke to confirmed hed sent the documents to the right email address 
and agreed to contact him to confirm whether the documents had been received. But 
theres no evidence to show they did this - which explains the reason why Mr S felt the 
need to call back repeatedly.
Despite sending the claims documents to the correct address, Mr S also had to send his 
claims forms by post too. I also understand why Mr S was frustrated by this and I imagine 
it was an inconvenience each time he had to call and resend the documents. AXA told Mr 
S it would normally take between five to seven days to assess a claim. But Ive seen that it 
took AXA around five weeks to receive the claims documents, and around seven weeks to 
assess the claim. So I dont think £50 is fair and reasonable for the worry, frustration and 
inconvenience Mr S suffered over the seven weeks it took to for him to receive the 
outcome of the claim. And I think AXA should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
I recognise this has been a frustrating time for Mr S, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information thats been provided. I understand why Mr S feels 
strongly about whats happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for 
as he wanted his claim paid. But I dont think thats reasonable in these circumstances.
I invited Mr S and AXA to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. AXA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S disagreed with my decision, he said in summary:
He had been trying to contact AXA since early may about cancelling the holiday - 
before the company who were providing the villa accommodation did so at the 
end of May;
His first call to AXA was in early June before the FCO advice had been updated.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
Mr S said he called AXA in early June before the FCO advice had been updated, and this 
isn't in dispute. However, I've listened to the call and heard that Mr S didnt say at any 
point that he'd cancelled his holiday, what he did ask was would he be covered if he 
cancelled it.
The agent asked Mr S if his holiday was a packaged holiday, so he could try claiming 
under ATOL. But Mr S confirmed he'd looked into this, and ATOL were only looking at 
holidays which were booked until the end of June - which is why he was contacting AXA 
instead. The agent then suggested Mr S submit a claim form so his claim could be 
considered - but she confirmed this wouldn't be guaranteed.
I recognise that the FCO updating their guidance a couple of days after this call was 
unfortunate timing for Mr S, but I can't reasonably hold AXA responsible for this. So, based 
on what I've seen, I think AXA gave Mr S reasonable guidance based on the information 
that was available to them. And I haven't seen any evidence that shows AXA agreed to 
cover Mr S's claim before the FCO guidance had been updated. So I don't think AXA have 
treated Mr S unfairly.
I also acknowledge Mr S's comment that he tried to contact AXA about cancelling his 
holiday back in May 2019. However, I've seen evidence that Mr S submitted an email 
enquiry at the beginning of May, but I can't see that he tried to contact AXA again after this 
point until the call at the beginning of June 2019. I acknowledge Mr S feels AXA should 
have done more to contact him, and the lack of response delayed him making a decision on 
what to do. But its not for me to punish a business for making a mistake and I can't 
reasonably say that by not responding to Mr S's email, AXA prevented Mr S from cancelling 
his holiday.
I've carefully read all the information that's been provided, and I understand why Mr S feels 
strongly about what's happened. I realise this won't be the outcome he was hoping for, but 
I don't think AXA have treated Mr S unfairly by not refunding his cancellation costs. So I 
won't be asking them to do anything more on this point.
Putting things right
As I've reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, AXA Insurance 
UK Plc must do the following:
Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. AXA Insurance UK Plc must 
follow the instructions I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jenny Lomax Ombudsman