DRN-3939400
The complaint
V has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed a sole trader business account without 
notice.
What happened
The account was closed by Barclays on 11 April 2022 because it said V hadnt responded to 
correspondence it sent to her asking for verification details of the account. 
In response to her complaint, Barclays offered V £200 for distress and inconvenience. It also 
offered to re-open the account. However, as that was a month later, V had made alternative 
arrangements with another bank in the meantime.
V would like compensation for loss of earnings, as well as a refund of fees for the time that 
she held the account.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
V disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
V had two business accounts  one sole trader and one partnership account. She says she 
received letters asking her for knowing your customer (KYC) information and that she 
returned the necessary forms. Despite returning the forms, she then received a reminder 
letter and so, on 24 November 2021, she rang Barclays to ensure it had received them.
Ive listened to the call recording. V starts by quoting the reference number for the 
partnership account. The adviser confirms that it received the forms back on 11 November 
2021 and so apologises that a reminder was sent out on 19 November 2021. The adviser 
then confirms that the file would be marked as no further action. V then asked for her 
personal account to be linked to her other accounts. But shes told that her personal account 
was closed in September 2021. She says that it fizzled out due to not being linked to her 
other account and she was then given advice about how to set up a new personal account. 
V doesnt mention the sole trader business account at any point during the call and neither 
does the adviser. 
V has more recently received some additional information from Barclays as a result of a 
subject access request that she made. Shes sent us an internal email where someone from 
the complaints team is giving their view of the 24 November 2021 phone call. They think 
that, because the adviser could see details of a second business account, they should have 
checked that everything was in order on that account as well. However, this is the view of 
one member of staff during the assessment of the complaint, rather than being Barclays final 
response. So, although V sees it as an admission of an error, its just part of the process of 
the complaint being discussed before reaching a final outcome. 
Barclays actually upheld the complaint and said that it had incorrectly advised V during the 
24 November 2021 call that it had received the forms back for the sole account. However, as 
stated above, Ive listened to the call and am satisfied that Barclays did nothing to give V the 
impression that it had received the necessary information from her in relation to the sole 
account. And Im also not persuaded that, just because the advisor could see that V had 
another business account, that he should have decided to check that as well. As Ive said, V 
starts the call by very clearly stating the reference number for the partnership account and 
says that shes ringing up about that.
V says that she only ever received correspondence relating to the partnership account and 
that she acted on that by returning the form and ringing Barclays. She says she would have 
acted similarly if she had received correspondence about the sole trader account.
Barclays has provided a copy of the initial KYC contact letter for the sole trader account 
dated 24 June 2021. It had engaged a third-party contractor to send out the KYC letters. The 
contractor was sending out the reminder letters in large tranches and hasnt retained copies 
of letters to individual consumers. However, Ive seen a schedule of posting for the different 
batches of letters which show that V would have received three later reminders. And 
Barclays has system notes of these being sent in July, August and November 2021.
V had changed the name of her house some years previously and the letters still had the old 
house name on them. But that was also true for the letters sent in relation to the partnership 
account, which V did receive. And I can see that V confirmed in one phone call to Barclays 
that she still received post addressed to the old house name as the postman was aware of it. 
Based on the available evidence, on balance, I consider that the initial contact letter and 
reminders relating to the sole account were sent to V and that she most likely received at 
least some of them. 
Barclays offered £200 compensation on the basis that, in its view, V may have ended the 
call on 24 November 2021 under the impression that she had sorted out both of her 
business accounts. I think that is a reasonable response by Barclays in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this has all been very stressful for V and she has told us about the effect 
this has had on her health. I am sympathetic and dont underestimate the problems she 
faced as a result of the account being closed. However, looking at the available evidence, 
Im unable to conclude that there was any fault on the part of Barclays. Overall, I think it 
acted reasonably in closing the account and then offering £200 in response to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Vs complaint. However, Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay V the £200 compensation now if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman