DRN-4396751
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc has failed to treat him fairly when hes asked for 
assistance with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr Hs mortgage moved from a fixed rate to a standard variable rate with TSB in February 
2020 and TSB wrote to Mr H in December 2019 to notify him of this change.
Mr H continued on the standard variable rate and didnt make an application to move to a 
new fixed rate until 2022 after he spoke with TSB about his financial situation and difficulties 
he was facing paying his mortgage. He had taken a payment holiday with the mortgage 
during Covid but this was requested online and TSB said it had no records of any 
conversations with it about his financial circumstances and personal health until January 
2022.
In January 2022 TSB completed an income and expenditure with Mr H to see what he could 
reasonably afford. It identified the mortgage repayment as it was, wasnt affordable. It put 
Mr H onto an interest only arrangement which was designed to repay the contractual 
monthly interest on his account and reduce the arrears on the account, these were just short 
of one months contractual payment amount.
In February 2022 TSB called Mr H to speak about the repayment. The interest rate on his 
mortgage was increasing following changes to the Bank of England base rate and this meant 
the previous amount arranged on the payment plan was not enough to cover the interest and 
arrears. The adviser spoke about looking at a fixed rate and Mr H explained he didnt realise 
he would be eligible for one of these because of his credit score and because of this, he 
hadnt explored this option further. But Mr H also explained his house was on the market and 
had been since January 2022. The adviser explained that a fixed rate might not be a suitable 
option as an early repayment charge (ERC) would be charged if the mortgage was 
redeemed within the fixed rate period. However, she explained that Mr H should think about 
speaking with a mortgage adviser and this could be arranged if he wanted to look at the 
options here.
TSB spoke with Mr H again in May 2022. It explained the monthly payment for his mortgage 
was increasing again and a new arrangement would need to be put in place. It was agreed 
TSB would review the situation and call Mr H back. In June 2022, Mr H spoke with TSB at a 
number of different points. He attempted to take a new interest rate but TSB didnt think this 
was affordable and they spoke about the house being on the market too. 
Mr H explained there hadnt been much interest in the property and if he could keep it with 
an affordable rate, it was his preference to stay. And he spoke about the prospect of a grant 
with his business that would improve his financial situation. The financial difficulty team 
looked at whether an extension of the interest only period was something it could offer. But it 
couldnt provide a new product rate for the mortgage. 
Mr H complained to TSB about the support he was getting and the decision not to provide 
him a fixed rate. He said hes spoken with it multiple times since January 2020 but it never 
offered a new fixed rate. He doesnt think it fairly assessed his affordability and whether a 
term extension would have helped his situation. He felt they took too long to give an answer 
on whether it could help and that TSB said it would honour the original rate when he spoke 
with them in June 2022. 
Mr H also complained about the service provided when the complaint was raised and how 
his expectations were managed. 
TSB issued its final response at the end of June 2022. It didnt think it had done anything 
wrong and that it had provided Mr H with the right level of support with his mortgage and the 
financial situation he is facing. It said it had let him know when his previous fixed rate was 
due to end but it was Mr Hs responsibility to request a new interest rate.
When he called them in January 2022 to notify it of his financial difficulties it conducted an 
income and expenditure and identified the mortgage was not affordable. It offered an interest 
only period for six months as a temporary concession to help Mr H with his outgoings at this 
point but was only able to offer this as a temporary option. 
It felt it had acted responsibly when it didnt offer a new rate to Mr H in June when he asked 
for one. TSB felt the mortgage would have been unaffordable still even if switched. And as 
Mr H was attempting to sell his house, a fixed rate could have meant hed need to pay an 
ERC when it sold. So it wasnt in his best interest to do this as it could have added to his 
costs. It also said it doesnt allow customers to switch a rate when on a temporary interest 
only plan.
TSB did identify that it hadnt always taken the correct amount from Mr H when it collected 
the direct debit on his account. To apologies for this, it covered the shortfall of the 
underfunding and made a payment of £50 to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced. It also offered to cover any costs Mr H could demonstrate he incurred when 
speaking to TSB about his complaint.
Our investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought TSB needed to do more. 
He agreed it hadnt made a mistake when it didnt actively move Mr H to a new rate when his 
old one expired. And there was no sign of Mr H speaking to TSB about his financial situation 
before January 2022. 
When Mr H did speak with TSB, he didnt think it had acted unfairly when it declined to offer 
a new rate in February 2022 or June 2022. He felt the income and expenditure information 
demonstrated a switch was not affordable even if moved to TSBs lowest rate at the time, so 
this wouldnt have been a benefit. And he had to take into account that Mr H had said he 
was selling the house and this meant the risk of an ERC with the fixed rate would have 
added to his costs.
He felt TSB could have been clearer in its communication with Mr H but he didnt think this 
would have resulted in him being able to get a fixed rate with it. This was because he felt the 
income assessments made at every point showed this wasnt something that was affordable. 
And he didnt think Mr H had been told in June that he could get a fixed rate, or that a rate 
from June would be honoured if available at a later date.
However, he didnt think the compensation offered by TSB for the failings with its 
communication and the impact this would have had on Mr H was fair. He asked that TSB 
increase this by a further £200. But he didnt think it needed to do anything else in relation to 
Mr Hs mortgage and the support it had offered with this.TSB accepted the recommendation and was happy to pay the increased award. 
Mr H did not accept. He explained why there hasnt been payments made to the mortgage 
regularly since the complaint has been with this Service and that there have been issues 
with the direct debit amount TSB was able to set up. Instead payments were made manually 
by phone.
Mr H also felt his affordability had not been properly assessed as the amount that was 
available didnt take into account some of his income and if this had been included, the 
outcome would have been different.
Because Mr H didnt agree with the outcome, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, in line with our investigators opinion. I know 
Mr H will be disappointed by this as it stops some way short of what he is hoping for, but Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
I appreciate Mr H feels he spoke with TSB about his situation prior to January 2022 but there 
is no indication an actual conversation took place. TSB did write to Mr H ahead of his fixed 
rate ending but it has no obligation to proactively move him to a new fixed rate after this. The 
notice sent explained the mortgage would move to the standard variable rate and if Mr H 
wanted to look at other options, hed need to contact TSB, but as Ive said, there is no 
indication this took place before January 2022. So it follows that I dont think TSB has done 
anything when it didnt discuss fixed rates with Mr H before he spoke with them in 2022. 
The crux of this complaint is, when Mr H did speak with TSB about his financial situation, did 
it treat him fairly. In summary, I think it did as it took time to understand Mr Hs situation and 
circumstances and offered concessions to make the mortgage more affordable in the short 
term. 
TSB carried out an income expenditure assessment with Mr H in January 2022 when he 
informed them he was experiencing financial difficulty. This was to identify whether the 
mortgage was affordable. At this point Mr Hs monthly mortgage repayment was just over 
£1400 per month. The income and expenditure identified that Mr H had an available income 
of just under £600 so the mortgage was not affordable. It agreed to move the mortgage to 
interest only and to accept a reduced contractual monthly payment of £800 at this point.
Mr H spoke with TSB again in February 2022. At this point it explained the amount it would 
need to charge was increasing as the Bank of England Base rate had increased. The 
adviser spoke about Mr H talking with a mortgage advisor about whether a fixed rate option 
could be considered. Mr H also notified TSB that his house was on the market and they 
explained a fixed rate might not be the best option because an ERC could add to his costs if 
and when it was sold.
I think TSB acted fairly when it explained this to Mr H and it is right that this could have made 
his situation worse. Although a fixed rate could have reduced his monthly mortgage 
payment, the mortgage would still have been unaffordable and if Mr H was to sell his house 
within the fixed rate period, he would have incurred the extra expenses of the ERC, so I 
dont think it would have been in his best interest for TSB to move him to a fixed rate at this point. 
When Mr H spoke with TSB again in May and June 2022, it did look at whether a fixed rate 
could be offered and it indicated this was an option it should be considering. But ultimately, 
the same concerns that were in place in January and February meant this wasnt something 
it was able to offer and I cant say it was treating Mr H unfairly when it didnt offer one at this 
point.
I do think TSB could have been clearer from the start that it was not able to offer a fixed rate 
and why. This would have reduced the loss of expectation Mr H experienced when he 
believed there was a chance this could still happen in June 2022. And I think it is correct that 
TSB increases the award for distress and inconvenience by a further £200 in recognition of 
this. 
I understand that Mr H feels TSB should have looked at options to extend the term of his 
mortgage and this could have had an impact on his affordability. But I dont think this would 
have had any real impact and as the property was on the market and the income and 
expenditure showed the mortgage to be unaffordable by some margin, I dont think it would 
have been in Mr Hs best interests for TSB to have offered a fixed rate. 
Mr H has also said that he doesnt think TSB took account of all of his income with the 
income and expenditure. While I acknowledge his point on this, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. There have been very little payments made towards the mortgage since 
June 2022 and Mr H has said this is, in part, because of the ongoing complaint, but I do think 
it indicates that even if additional income was considered by TSB that it had otherwise 
missed, the repayments were not affordable.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed by this outcome but I dont think TSB has treated him 
unfairly when working with him, providing support and forbearance as he has been 
experiencing financial difficulty. And beyond recognising that it needs to do more to reflect 
the impact of some of its customer service during this time, it doesnt need to do anything 
else. 
Putting things right
TSB need to pay Mr H a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman