DRN-3176710
The complaint
Ms Ws complained that Wilson Tarquin Limited (WT) charged her success fees in relation 
to claims for refunds of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI), even though she did 
the work to secure payment herself. 
What happened
In early 2019, Ms W signed letters of authority, allowing WT to act on her behalf in seeking a 
refund of PPI from a lender Ill call L.  L identified four potential claims and WT submitted 
claims to L on Ms Ws behalf.  Two of the claims resulted in refunds of £327.59 and £500 in 
March and April 2019 respectively.
The day before L made their first offer to Ms W, they wrote to WT telling WT theyd not 
received an acceptable signed letter of authority from Ms W.  So theyd correspond with her 
directly until such time as WT sent one to them.
About 18 months later, WT were advised Ms W had received a refund from L  so they 
invoiced her in line with the agreement shed signed.  Ms W objected to this, as she said 
shed done the work which resulted in her receiving the refund herself.  Ultimately, she 
complained to WT about this.
WT investigated and didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint.  They said theyd contacted L to 
identify potential claims with them, taken Ms W through a questionnaire to supply supporting 
information and submitted a claim.  They said L didnt respond until September 2020, which 
wasnt unusual due to the effects of the global pandemic on all businesses.  And they said 
Ms W hadnt contacted them to let them know shed received the refunds.
Ms W wasnt satisfied with WTs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded WT didnt need to do anything more to resolve matters.  He said 
that, even though L had said theyd not had appropriate letters of authority from WT, it was 
clear that WT had submitted information which L considered in deciding to make refunds to 
Ms W.  
And, while he accepted Ms Ws statement that shed been in direct contact with L, hed not 
seen any evidence that it was this, rather than the information WT had sent, which had led to 
the success of the claim.  He noted WTs right to their fee was based on the claim being 
successful, not on the amount of work that had been done.
Ms W didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Ms W agreed to when she instructed WT.  As our 
investigator said, they say this is a no win, no fee agreement  so if the claims WT 
submitted werent successful, they wouldnt be paid.  But theyre entitled to a fee equivalent 
to 24% (including VAT) of any compensation Ms W recovered.
Ms W did receive two payments.  So  on the fact of it  WT are entitled to their fee in line 
with the terms and conditions.  I can only say WT should reduce or waive their fee if I think 
theyve done something wrong  and what they did had a negative impact on Ms W. 
Ms W says WT shouldnt be entitled to their fee because she had to provide information 
directly to L  and that was what led the success to her claim.  Ive thought about this.  But I 
dont think, based on what Ive seen, thats right.
Ive read the letter L sent Ms W telling her they didnt have an appropriate authority to deal 
with WT.  The relevant section says:
Before we can discuss your personal information with a third party, we require an 
appropriate Letter of Authority (LoA) to be submitted with the complaint.  This allows us to 
deal with the third party on your behalf.  Unfortunately, in this instance, one or more of our 
LoA requirements were missing or incorrect.
We are therefore dealing with you directly as our customer for the purposes of this 
complaint.  Your Third Party Representative has been notified of this.
I think its clear from whats been said that L didnt have what it needed to deal with WT at 
that time  not that they wouldnt deal with them at all.  And Ive seen that WT did try to put 
things right by requesting a fresh authority from Ms W.
But, even if they hadnt done that, I dont think its fair to say WT shouldnt receive their fee.  
The same letter Ive referred to above made an offer to Ms W to refund her £327.59.  And 
that offer was made on the basis of the information provided by WT.
I appreciate Ms W received a second offer just under three weeks later, in early April.  
Nothing in either letter shows Ms W provided pivotal information herself.  So I asked our 
investigator to check with Ms W what evidence she could send us to support what she said.
Ms W has sent further copies of the correspondence she had about her claims.  Ive looked 
at this.  I can see that Ms W corresponded with L herself.  But all this correspondence is 
dated after she received the offer letters from L  which were generated by the claims WT 
made.  Ive not seen anything which shows me Ms W provided information, without which 
her claim would have been declined.
So Im not persuaded WT shouldnt be entitled to their success fee  or that they should do 
any more to resolve Ms Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint about Wilson Tarquin 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman