DRN-4161454
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received from Santander UK Plc surrounding an ISA 
transfer.
What happened
Mr R instructed an ISA transfer to Santander on the understanding that the transfer would be 
effective from 8 October 2022. But Santander didnt complete the transfer until a while after 
that date and didnt backdate the interest accrued on the account to 8 October as promised. 
Mr R wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that a £50 voucher he was entitled 
to receive hadnt been paid to him, or with the service hed received from Santander when 
bringing his concerns to them. So, he raised a complaint.  
Santander apologised to Mr R and confirmed that they would backdate the interest to 8 
October 2022 so that Mr R didnt lose out financially because of the late transfer. Santander 
also accepted that Mr R hadnt received the standard of service from them he was entitled to 
expect or received the £50 voucher he should have received. And Santander made a 
payment of £250 to Mr R which included £50 as the voucher amount as well as £200 
compensation for any trouble and upset Mr R may have incurred. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, including that he wouldnt know if 
Santander had correctly backdated the interest to 8 October 2022 until then end of the ISA 
term the following year. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that there was nothing to 
indicate that Santander wouldnt honour their agreement to backdate the ISA interest to 8 
October 2021 and felt that Santanders response to Mr Rs complaint already represented a 
fair outcome. Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Santander have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr R has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr R for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr R notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr R and Santander. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
In their response to Mr Rs complaint, Santander have agreed to backdate Mr Rs account 
interest to 8 October 2021. This is what Mr R was seeking, so Im satisfied that Santander 
dont need to do anything further here in this regard. 
Im aware that Mr R is unhappy that he wont be able to confirm whether Santander have 
done as promised until the end of the ISA term towards the end of 2023. But I dont feel 
theres any reasonable need to instruct Santander to act outside of the process here and Im 
satisfied that if Mr R isnt happy with the interest on his ISA at the end of the ISA term that he 
can refer Santander to the written agreement given by them in their response to his 
complaint at that time.
Mr R is unhappy with several aspects of the service hed received from Santander 
surrounding this issue, including that a member of Santanders staff incorrectly told him that 
they had record of Mr R wanting to cancel his ISA account and the amount of time he had to 
spend communicating his concerns. Santander have apologised to Mr R for the time he had 
to spend on this matter, and they made a payment of £250 to him - £200 of which was as 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr R had incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But given the full circumstances of this 
complaint, the payment of £200 that Santander have already made to Mr R feels fair to me, 
and I can confirm its commensurate with what I might have instructed Santander to pay to 
him, had they not already done so. 
In reaching this position Ive considered the time and effort that Mr R has expended on this 
matter, as hed described it, but also that Mr R first began chasing this matter with Santander 
at a time when the 14-day time period that banks such as Santander have to process an ISA 
transfer hadnt expired, such that Santander couldnt be considered to have made any form 
of error at that time. Ive also considered the general framework which this service uses 
when thinking about compensation amounts for trouble and upset, details of which can be 
found on this services website. 
Finally, Santander have acknowledged that their agent made a mistake when incorrectly 
advising Mr R that he had asked to cancel his ISA  and its self-evident that this mistake 
was clear to Mr R at that time. And I dont feel that any further compensation should 
reasonably be instructed to Mr R because of this mistake. As such, taking all these factors 
into consideration, I feel that the £200 already paid to Mr R is a fair compensation amount. 
Mr R is also unhappy with several aspects of how Santander have handled his complaint, 
including that Santanders response to his complaint wasnt received by him until January 
2022, despite the letter being dated 29 November 2021. 
However, this service can only consider complaints about regulated financial matters. And a 
complaint about how a business has handled a complaint  even a complaint about a regulated financial matter  isnt itself a regulated financial matter. In short, this service cant 
consider complaints about how a business has handled a complaint.
However, speaking generally, I acknowledge Mr Rs point that just because a letter is dated 
in November doesnt necessarily mean that it was sent in November, especially if its only 
received in January, and that the letter may have been sent later than dated. But I feel that 
the reverse is equally plausible here  which is that just because a letter dated in November 
is only received in January, it doesnt necessarily mean that the letter wasnt posted in 
November, and it may have been delayed in the post. 
And this service wouldnt hold a business accountable for the late delivery of a correctly 
addressed letter, given that the delivery of letters is an act undertaken by a postal service 
and not something over which the business has any control.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response to Mr Rs complaint issued by 
Santander  including the promise to correctly backdate the interest on Mr Rs ISA and the 
payment of £200 compensation  already represents a fair resolution to this complaint. And 
it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take 
any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman