DRN-3734716
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) disagreed to an individual voluntary 
agreement (IVA). Hes also complained about their level of service, theyve caused a breach 
of his data and theyve discriminated against him on grounds of disability. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr S entered into a 120 month hire purchase agreement with Black Horse for a 
caravan vehicle. It cost £57,000 and he was required to pay £650 in monthly instalments.
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr S experienced financial difficulty and as a 
result, he agreed to end the agreement by voluntary termination (VT) in January 2022. To 
VT, he needed to return the vehicle and pay half the total agreement amount, he was told he 
needed to pay around £20,000 to reach that point. 
Mr S wasnt in the financial position to pay this amount. He made an application to enter into 
an IVA for the debt owed to Black Horse and other creditors. They didnt agree to the IVA. 
As part of his back and forth discussions with Black Horse, Mr S said they provided poor 
customer service and when he expressed his feelings of suicide, the call agent encouraged 
him to harm himself. He also complained they spoke to a family member about the 
agreement without his consent which was a breach of his data.
Lastly, Mr S said he suffers from mental health conditions (stress and anxiety), mobility 
issues and hes dyslexic. He said he had requested to communicate with Black Horse by 
phone only but they werent willing to do so and because of this, theyve discriminated 
against him. 
In response to these complaints, in summary Black Horse has said:
1. Theyve provided reasons as to why they disagreed with the IVA;
2. At times theyve provided a poor level of service and offered £150 compensation. 
However their call agent didnt encourage him to harm himself, they would 
backdate the default to January 2022 and they were in the process of writing off 
the debt;
3. They called the number held on their system for Mr S and there was no indication 
they werent speaking to him;
4. They were only made aware of his dyslexia and the need for communication by 
calls only after the third complaint in July 2022. Theyve offered alternatives for 
Mr S to communicate with them
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint. They didnt find Black Horse had treated him unfairly. He 
disagreed. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Black Horse has done enough to put things right. I will explain 
why. 
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided and Ive 
done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated 
on what I think are the key issues. This reflects the nature of our service as an informal 
alternative to the courts. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every detail to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
The IVA
Based on the proposed IVA application, I can see Mr S owed money to a number of different 
creditors. For an IVA to be approved, it must be agreed by 75% of creditors (based on the 
value of the debt). In this case, the amount Mr S owed to Black Horse represented less than 
75% meaning they didnt hold the majority vote. However I accept the debt represented a 
significant proportion. In March 2022, the IVA application was considered, I note 94% of the 
creditors didnt agree to it including Black Horse. 
At this point, I must make it clear that Black Horse nor the other creditors are under any 
obligation to agree to the IVA, its a commercial decision. However, I would expect them to 
consider the application fairly and reasonably. Here, Black Horse said they determined Mr S 
had significant equity in a mortgage free property, they considered his mental and physical 
conditions, they believed he was still working and he wasnt in receipt of benefits. Based on 
this, its clear Black Horse considered a number of factors about Mr S personal and financial 
circumstances including the information provided in the application before reaching their 
decision. I dont consider their decision to be wholly unreasonable given the circumstances 
and the amount that was owed to them. 
Customer Service
I understand Mr S has raised a number of concerns about the level of service received by 
Black Horse including them not calling him back when agreed, giving incorrect information 
about why they didnt agree to the IVA and for causing delays. Black Horse accept following 
the sale of the vehicle in February 2022, there was a delay to apply the sales proceeds to 
the outstanding balance Mr S owed, it wasnt applied until April 2022.
They also acknowledged Mr S was promised a call back from a manager but this didnt 
happen. For these reasons, theyve paid £150 compensation to Mr S. I recognise these 
failings added to Mr S worries during what was already a difficult time and the subsequent 
impact on him. Given the circumstances, I consider Black Horses payment of £150 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr S complains when he mentioned he had thoughts of suicide in May 2022, Black Horses 
call agent encouraged him to take an overdose as he told him to go ahead (or words to that 
effect). Black Horse denied this. Im sorry to hear Mr S had such thoughts and I truly hope 
hes receiving the support he needs. Having listened to the call in question, I cant hear the call agent said what Mr S alleges but 
he did say Okay. I can understand why Mr S perceived this as the agent didnt care about 
him or the actions he was planning to take. However listening to the call and how it was said, 
it appears the agent was uncertain what to say in response and before he could say 
anything more, Mr S ended the call. The contact notes suggest the agent attempted to call 
Mr S back but he didnt want to speak to him. To my mind, that suggests the agent was 
concerned about Mr S welfare and didnt want any harm to come to him. For these reasons, 
I cant agree the agent actively encouraged Mr S to harm himself but I equally recognise how 
this may have come across to Mr S in the moment. 
Data protection concern
Mr S says Black Horse spoke to his brother about the agreement which was a breach of his 
data. They said they called the telephone number they hold for Mr S and they had asked him 
earlier that day if they should call back using that number which he agreed to. Ive seen 
evidence of the telephone number Black Horse held for Mr S, I also note its the same 
contact number Mr S has provided to our service. As the contact notes suggest Mr S 
confirmed they could call him on that number, I cant say Black Horse did anything wrong by 
doing just that. According to their notes, no information was discussed about the agreement 
so I cant agree they provided Mr S personal information that would cause a data breach 
issue. 
Discrimination
Mr S says that he suffers from stress, anxiety, mobility issues and he has experienced 
suicidal thoughts which have been made worse by this situation and Black Horses 
communication with him. He also said hes dyslexic so he finds communication in writing to 
be difficult which is why he needs to communicate by telephone. According to him, Black 
Horse are no longer willing to speak to him by phone, only by writing. He says they are 
discriminating against him due to his disability as theyre failing to put in place what he 
considers to be a reasonable adjustment.
I would like to thank Mr S for his honesty and openness about his medical conditions and Im 
sorry to hear how it impacts him. I appreciate this situation has been and continues to be a 
difficult time for him. I havent been provided with evidence about Mr S dyslexia and the 
need to communicate by phone only so I accept what hes said in good faith.
I need to stress that our service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal free 
alternative to the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the Act. However, I can consider whether the business has acted in 
a fair and reasonable manner and in order to do that, I will take a number of things into 
consideration including the Equality Act 2010.
Having reviewed the contact notes, while its clear Black Horse considered Mr S as being 
vulnerable due to his mental health and financial circumstances, the earliest indication he 
told Black Horse about his dyslexia and his requirement to communicate by phone was 
around July 2022. I note this was after he was told Black Horses complaint team would only 
communicate with him by writing and after he had raised his third complaint. I find Black 
Horse werent aware of his dyslexia or the need for telephone communication prior to this so 
I cant say they did anything wrong by communicating with him both by phone and by writing. 
Black Horse said a number of their conversations with Mr S by phone havent gone well in 
which he becomes distressed, leading him to say he wants to cause himself harm. They also 
said its distressing for their staff members. In the interest of both parties, theyve said their complaints team will communicate with him by writing only, theyve also suggested he may 
wish to consider having a representative communicate with them on his behalf. From my 
understanding, Mr S has authorised a third party to do so. However, theyve confirmed their 
collections and customer service teams can communicate with him by phone regarding the 
account status or information relating to it. Given the circumstances, I consider this a 
reasonable course of action by Black Horse and I find theyve treated Mr S fairly in this 
regard. 
Summary 
Taking everything into account, based on the evidence presented to me I find Black Horse 
has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them to do anything further to 
resolve these complaints. I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my outcome but I hope 
he accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman