DRN-3489596
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited turned down a claim he made on his legal
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has legal expenses insurance with Amtrust provided as part of his home insurance
policy. In February 2021 he made claim on his policy. The dispute he was seeking
assistance with related to whether he was entitled to holiday pay as a worker. Mr Cs
solicitors said he was seeking a declaration from the Employment Tribunal (ET) to determine
his employment status (following judgements in other cases which they felt were relevant to
his situation).
Amtrust turned down the claim. It said seeking a declaration from the ET didnt fall within the
definition of legal proceedings set out in the policy. It also said the policy didnt cover class or
group actions or where the outcome would affect other claims. It thought that was the case
here. And the policy excluded the defence or pursuit of new areas of law or test cases which
it also thought applied in this case.
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered and thought Amtrust had acted fairly in
turning this down. Mr Cs solicitors didnt agree. They said this wasnt a test case because
they were attempting to enforce employment rights which had been established by the other
cases theyd referenced. The claim wasnt being heard with others and wasnt a group or
class action; Mr C was the only claimant. They accepted the outcome could benefit future
claimants but said this would be a wide interpretation of the exclusion which would limit
Mr Cs legal right to access justice.
They outlined what had happened with the claim to date and said action in an ET did amount
to legal proceedings and counsel involved in the case would regard it as such. They also
argued the policy had been mis-sold and said we could consider complaints about this. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. I think the only section of cover
this claim could fall within is the Employment Disputes section. And under the What is
insured section that says it covers:
Standard advisers costs to pursue a legal action against an employer, prospective
employer, or ex-employer, arising from a dispute relating to your contract of employment or
related statutory rights.
Legal action is defined in the policy as:
The pursuit or defence of civil legal cases for damages and/or injunctions (interdicts in
Scotland) and/or specific performance (specific implement in Scotland) or
The defence of criminal prosecutions to do with your employment, or the defence of
motor prosecutions
The policy then limits the cover provided under General Exclusions. That section says there
is no cover for Costs if your claim is part of a class action or will be affected by or will affect
the outcome of other claims. It also excludes cover for any claim arising from or relating to
Defending or pursuing new areas of law or test cases
Ive thought about how that applies in this case. Mr Cs solicitors have argued seeking a
declaration does constitute legal proceedings and the counsel involved in the case would
regard it as such. But legal action is specifically defined within the policy. So the question
isnt whether Mr Cs solicitors or counsel regard this as legal action but does it meet the
definition in the policy.
Amtrust says it doesnt because seeking a declaration from the ET doesnt fall within it. But I
dont agree that is what Mr C was doing. Ive reviewed the Grounds of claim submitted by
his solicitors to the ET and that clearly includes a claim for unpaid leave. And the Grounds
of resistance from his employer set out its position on the issue of employment status and
say for the reasons above, the Respondent had no obligation to pay in respect of holiday
leave
I appreciate the ET has concluded the issue of Mr Cs employment status should be
determined before other issues of liability or remedy are considered. But I think thats an
issue relating to the management of the case by the ET. The overall legal claim that Mr C is
pursuing is one for unpaid leave (albeit that as part of that a decision as to his employment
status will initially need to be made by the ET).
I also note the policy defines an insured incident as the incident or the first in a series of
incidents which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be
deemed to have arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by
cause or time. The maximum the policy will pay out for an insured incident is £100,000.
So its likely that under the terms of the policy the entirety of the claim Mr C has made would
be treated as one insured incident (which would receive a single rather than separate limit of
indemnity). I think that supports a conclusion that this is one claim and separating it into
different elements (the declaration and the unpaid holiday element) represents an artificial
and unfair divide. As a result I dont think Amtrust can rely on the definition of legal action to
turn it down. Ive therefore gone on to consider the other arguments its made.
Amtrust say the claim is caught by the exclusion which says cover wont be provided if your
claim is part of a class action or will be affected by or will affect the outcome of other claims.
However, I dont think it would be reasonable to say this was a class action; that term isnt
defined in the policy and I dont think it would meet the technical definition established by
case law (which relates to collective proceedings brought in the Competition Appeals
Tribunal for loss or damage caused by an infringement of competition law).
Ive thought about whether this is a claim which would affect the outcome of other claims. I
appreciate Mr Cs solicitors told Amtrust that everyone who had signed the same or similar
contract as him would be affected by what happened. And given Mr Cs role I think it is likely
that there will be others in the same position who could well be impacted by any decision the
ET reaches in relation to his claim.
Amtrust argues it didnt want to cover the risk of litigation where the case could affect the
outcome of other similar cases. But the policy refers specifically to the outcome of otherclaims. I think for a claim to exist it must already have been made. And its for Amtrust to
show an exclusion applies. It hasnt provided evidence which shows the outcome of Mr Cs
case will impact other claims that have already been made. So I dont think it can rely on this
to turn down his claim either.
Amtrust also said the claim was caught by an exclusion which applies to defending or
pursuing new areas of law and test cases. However, I dont think that is the case. The law in
this area has been set out in a number of high profile cases where judgement has already
been reached. Mr C isnt seeking to challenge those judgements. His claim is that the law
which has already been established covers his situation (and he is therefore entitled to
unpaid holiday pay).
Nor do I think this could reasonably be said to be a test case. That term isnt defined in the
policy and Im not aware of any mechanism or scheme for a test case such as this to be
brought in the ET (its rules refer instead to lead cases). And in any event theres no
evidence, for example, to show that Mr Cs solicitors have selected this case to progress
from a number of similar ones they have. In fact, as Ive already said, theres no evidence to
show any other similar claims currently exist.
So I dont think Amtrust can rely on the reasons its used to turn down this claim. It will
therefore need to reconsider it against the remaining policy terms. I also think that having his
claim turned down for the wrong reasons is likely to have caused Mr C some unnecessary
distress and inconvenience. I think Amtrust should pay £200 to recognise the impact of that
on him.
Mr Cs solicitors also argued the policy had been mis-sold to him and that this was
something we could consider. We can, in principle, consider a complaint about the mis-sale
of an insurance policy. But that complaint would need to be taken forward against the
business responsible for the sale. It appears Mr C took out legal expenses cover alongside
his home insurance so hell need to pursue any mis-sale concerns against the business
responsible for that sale (which wasnt Amtrust).
Finally Im also aware Mr Cs solicitors asked for this complaint and others they made to be
considered by the same ombudsman. They said this was because they involved similar
issues relating to hourly rate and allegations of mis-selling. However, as Ive explained, Im
not considering a complaint about mis-selling in this decision because Amtrust didnt sell the
policy. And this complaint isnt about the hourly rate to be paid; its about whether the claim
Mr C made is covered by his policy. So I dont see this complaint does need to be 
considered alongside any others his solicitors have made.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust accepted if there were no others claiming it couldnt rely on the exclusion it had used 
and agreed to consider the claim. However, it said it reserved the right to consider what 
funding should be provided if this did become a class action. It said if cover was agreed this 
would be in place from the date of issue. And it agreed to pay the £200 compensation. 
Mr Cs representatives said hed suffered financial loss because hed paid legal costs that 
should have been covered by his policy. And he wanted reimbursement of those costs. They 
provided further details of these. They also said Mr C was caused considerable stress and 
worry over these fees (which hed paid himself) and the compensation payment should be in 
the region of £1000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has agreed to reconsider the claim and to pay the compensation I recommended. I 
appreciate Mr Cs representatives believe it should also reimburse him for the costs hes 
incurred. However, Amtrust will first need to establish whether this is a claim that falls within 
the other terms and conditions of the policy. If it does it will then need to consider what costs 
should be paid. The policy terms as they relate to the payment of costs will be the starting 
point for that but Amtrust should also consider whether Mr C has suffered losses as a result 
of what it got wrong.   
However, those issues havent yet been considered by Amtrust and they therefore dont form 
part of this complaint. As a result, while I note the submissions that have been made by 
Mr Cs representatives, that isnt something Im considering at this stage. If cover is agreed 
for the claim Mr C has made and there is then a dispute over the costs to be paid under the 
terms of the policy (or when these should be paid from) thats something which could form 
part of a separate complaint if it isnt possible for the parties to resolve this themselves. 
Ive also considered the comments Mr Cs representatives have made about the 
compensation I recommended. I appreciate Mr C has had to pay costs he believes should 
have been covered by his policy. But that isnt something Ive concluded  as Ive explained 
Im directing Amtrust to reconsider the claim against the remaining policy terms. So the issue 
Im considering here is the impact on Mr C of the claim being turned down for the wrong 
reasons. And I continue to feel that £200 is the right amount to recognise that. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to reconsider this 
claim against the remaining policy terms and pay Mr C £200 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused as a result of his claim being turned down for the wrong 
reasons. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman