DRN-2739056
The complaint
Mrs D and the estate of the late Mr D, through a representative, complain that Phoenix Life 
Limited (trading as SunLife) shouldnt have sold them nine over 50s life assurance plans.
What happened
Mrs D and the late Mr D took out nine over 50s life assurance plans between 2013 and 
2017. Mrs D took out five over the phone and Mr D took out four over the phone and by 
postal application. 
In 2019, Mrs D was diagnosed with dementia and her representative was granted Power of 
Attorney. Recently Mr D has sadly passed away. The representative says she found details 
of the policies at their home and most correspondence and policy details were unopened. 
She explained that she didnt feel SunLife shouldve sold Mr and Mrs D these policies as 
they were vulnerable at the time and werent aware of what was being agreed to. The 
representative explained that Mr D was partially deaf at the time so couldnt have taken the 
policies on the phone, and that due to Mrs Ds health, she wasnt aware of the policies she 
was taking. The representative also pointed out there were multiple spelling mistakes on the 
policy paperwork.
SunLife acknowledged there were spelling mistakes and corrected these. It also apologised 
for delays in handling the complaint and it sent out cheques totalling £250 to compensate for 
this. But it said it had no reason to doubt the requests of Mr and Mrs D when they took out 
these policies. It also explained it didnt provide advice and acted on the instruction of Mr 
and Mrs D.
Our investigator didnt feel SunLife had done anything wrong. She said shed listened to the 
calls and to an objective person it sounded as if Mrs D wanted these policies and was aware 
of what she was agreeing to and how it worked. The investigator also explained that Mr D 
had been able to communicate over the phone and give authorisation for Mrs D to talk on his 
behalf. She didnt think there was anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs D shouldnt have 
been sold these policies. She also explained that as SunLife wasnt giving advice, there 
wasnt any obligation on it to ensure these policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs D at the 
time.
The representative of Mrs D and the estate of Mr D disagreed. She explained that there 
were clear indications that Mrs D was confused on the calls and it sounded as if she felt she 
was being told to pay more, rather than opting for more insurance. She also pointed out that 
she ended up being sold higher cover than shed asked for. Overall the representative 
doesnt believe SunLife shouldve sold these policies to Mr and Mrs D given their 
vulnerabilities at the time. They asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so its been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The substantive issue here is whether SunLife shouldve sold these policies to Mr and Mrs 
D. The representative has told us about their medical conditions and I can understand the 
concern around them taking out these policies. But I need to decide whether I think SunLife 
wouldve had any indication that Mr and Mrs D were vulnerable at the time these policies 
were sold, and whether any other action shouldve been taken.
I firstly want to point out that SunLife didnt have any duty to provide suitable advice to Mr 
and Mrs D. The sale of these policies was based on Mr and Mrs D having the relevant 
information and making a decision themselves. Keeping this in mind, Ive listened to the calls 
where Mrs D took out these policies, as well as the application forms completed by Mr D. 
Having done so, I dont think there was anything to suggest SunLife shouldnt have sold 
these policies at the time. Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs D took out all of her policies over the phone. Having listened to these calls 
Im satisfied SunLife was following instructions given by Mrs D, and Im satisfied it explained 
the risks and features of the policy as I would expect. Mrs Ds representative has said that 
Mrs D suffers from dementia, and this was clear in the calls. But, without knowing Mrs Ds 
condition, I dont think it wouldve been apparent to SunLife at the time. Im also mindful that 
these calls took place prior to Mrs Ds diagnosis.
In all the calls Ive listened to Mrs D is asking for additional cover (aside from the initial call 
where she asks for cover to start). She asks to put more money into the policy. SunLife 
explains to her that she can get additional cover by taking out additional policies. I can see 
that Mrs D asks for a specific amount and SunLife explains her options, including paying 
more. Its clear from the phone calls that Mrs D makes the decision about the level of cover 
she wants and I dont agree that the calls indicate that she is being asked for more money. It 
sounds to me that Mrs D is approaching SunLife after receiving a new advert to increase the 
level of life insurance she has, and this is what happens. Its also important to note that 
Mrs D confirms she has cover already and calculates how much shed be paying each 
month. So, I dont think SunLife did anything wrong in following her instructions to take these 
policies out.
I understand the representative believes Mr D couldnt have taken out policies over the 
phone because he was deaf. Having listened to the calls SunLife was told Mr D was hard of 
hearing but he was able to respond to some questions and this led to Mrs D giving 
instructions on his behalf. I note SunLife also sent out paper applications for some of Mr Ds 
policies enabling him to complete these later rather than over the phone.  
In all calls Mrs D recalls the welcome gifts shed received previously and asked for the same 
vouchers, which suggested that she had capacity to make these decisions. From these 
conversations, I dont think there was anything to suggest that SunLife shouldnt be going 
through with the instructions they were receiving.
Ive also noted that Mr D completed two paper application forms for the same level of cover. 
The representative has said that this shows he hadnt remembered hed already completed 
one, and that SunLife shouldve queried these policies being applied for so close together. I 
can understand why the representative believes this is the case, but I have to decide 
whether SunLife has done anything wrong in opening both of these policies. SunLife 
explained it received the applications and for each application it paid out the relevant 
welcome gift. I dont think its unreasonable to think that Mr D may have wanted the separate 
policies to benefit from the welcome gifts so theres not enough to suggest SunLife shouldve 
done more here. SunLife wasnt giving any advice in these situations, and there wasnt anything to suggest that it shouldnt have followed the instructions it received from both Mr 
and Mrs D.
I have seen that there were mistakes in setting up the policies, specifically the names being 
spelled incorrectly. However, I can see SunLife has corrected these upon being told about 
them and Ive not seen anything to suggest the policies wouldnt have paid out because of 
these errors. SunLife has offered a total of £250 to compensate for these spelling errors 
which I think is fair as it may have been a shock for Mr and Mrs D at the time to see their 
names werent correct. SunLife did send a cheque for this amount but made it payable to the 
representative in this case. It must now issue the cheques for Mrs D and the estate of Mr D.
I do understand that the representative for Mrs D and Mr Ds estate will be disappointed with 
this decision, but I hope Ive explained why I dont think SunLife did anything wrong in setting 
up these policies.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, the compensation that Phoenix Life Limited (trading as 
SunLife) has offered is fair and reasonable. It must now pay £250 to the correct recipients in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and the 
estate of Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman