DRN-4057204
The complaint
Mr A complains that Valitor Limited did not fairly compensate him when the card terminal it 
supplied was defective. 
What happened
Mr A runs a small business that sells goods at events. He ran into difficulties with the card 
terminal supplied by Valitor across two events last summer. Mr A said he accepted that the 
difficulties with the first event (Event 1) may have been caused by network difficulties. 
Nevertheless, Valitor said it would replace the card terminal. 
Mr A says Valitor didnt test the new card terminal before it was sent to him. When he 
attended the second event (Event 2), the card machine would not work. Mr A says he called 
Valitor for technical support and was informed the card terminal was faulty. Mr A says this 
caused him to lose sales at Event 2, which he believed would have been a record-breaking 
event for him in terms of profit. 
When Mr A complained to this service, Valitor said it thought the difficulties Mr A 
encountered with the card machine for Event 2 were caused by network problems that were 
beyond its control. 
Mr A told Valitor he wanted to end his contract. But he received a settlement bill for £502.26. 
Mr A didnt think he should have to pay this settlement amount. 
Our investigator considered all of this. To settle the complaint, Valitor ultimately agreed to 
pay £1,250 to Mr A and make sure he didnt have to pay £502.26 to bring his contract to an 
end. Our investigator thought this was fair. 
Mr A did not agree with this outcome. Ultimately, he thought Valitor should pay £1,500 to 
compensate him and waive the settlement charges.  
As Mr A did not accept our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valitor agreed to pay £1,250 to Mr A and to terminate his contract without settlement fees. At 
that stage, the settlement fees were said to be £502.26. My decision is that this offer is fair. 
Ill explain why below. 
Looking at the figures Mr A provided for his profits for previous years at Event 2, I can see 
they range from £1,160 to £1,980 over a three-year period. The total value of the offer Valitor 
made (including waived charges) at the time was £1,752.26
I appreciate Mr A strongly believes that Event 2 would have been a record-breaking year for 
him in terms of his expected profit. He says that Event 2 was very well attended, and he had 
seen profits increase across other events when they started up again after the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
I dont think it would be fair for me to speculate as to what Mr As profits may or may not 
have been at Event 2. I cant reasonably say how much he would have made in profit 
despite Event 2 being well attended. Put simply, theres no guarantee how much Mr A would 
have made from Event 2. 
It seems to me that the total value of the compensation Valitor agreed to pay is in line with 
and at the higher end of Mr As profits at previous events. Overall, Im satisfied that Valitors 
offer is fair. I understand it has already paid £1,000 to Mr A. It will need to take action to 
implement its offer in full as I have set out below. 
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, Valitor must: 
Pay £1,250 in total to Mr A. I understand it may have already paid £1,000 to Mr A, 
which means it can deduct that amount from what it will now owe him. 
Terminate Mr As agreement with no settlement fees to be paid by him.  
My final decision
Valitor Limited must put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman