DRN-2330141
The complaint
Mr A complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited is holding him liable for a loan he 
took out to fund a training course, even though he is longer receiving the training.
What happened
In or about November 2018 Mr A took out a loan of just under £6,000 to finance his 
attendance on a course provided by a company, R. R arranged the loan, and Mr A was to 
repay it by 60 monthly payments of just under £125. 
Mr A has explained that he kept up the payments until about August 2019, but that his 
career plans then changed, so that the course was no longer suitable for him. He cancelled 
his direct debit instruction. R said however that he was not entitled to a refund, and Omni 
Capital continued to seek loan repayments. 
Mr A complained to Omni Capital, but it said the course could not be cancelled and that he 
remained obliged to make the loan payments. Mr A referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed with Omni Capital that 
there was no reason for Omni Capital to cancel the loan or otherwise compensate Mr A. 
Mr A did not accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A agreed to take out the loan and to repay it in accordance with the repayment schedule. 
He also had an agreement with R that it would provide the course, in return for which he 
would pay for it through the loan. There was no provision allowing Mr A to cancel either 
agreement after an initial period of 14 days. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (which regulates the loan) says that, where a 
borrower has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier of goods 
or services, they can have a like claim against the lender  subject to certain conditions. I am 
satisfied the relevant conditions apply here; that is, the loan agreement was within the 
necessary financial limits and the necessary relationships existed among Mr A, Omni Capital 
and R. R arranged the loan and Omni Capital paid R to finance the course it provided for Mr 
A. 
There was however no breach of contract or misrepresentation on the part of R. Mr A does 
not even suggest there was. In his submission to this service, he said that he stopped 
making the loan repayments because he had changed his mind about the course, not 
because there was anything wrong with it or, for example, because R was no longer 
prepared to provide it. There is therefore no basis on which I could properly say that Omni 
Capital should write off the loan, either in whole or in part. 
Mr A says too that Omni Capital has pursued him for payment and recorded on his credit file 
that he has not made loan payments. I do not believe either is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. As Ive explained, Mr A agreed to repay the money he borrowed but has not 
done so. In the circumstances, Omni Capital was entitled to act as it did.         
My final decision
For these reasons I do not require Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman