DRN-2842236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled a mortgage application that 
they made  particularly the time it took. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L applied for a mortgage with Santander on 21 August 2020. The application 
was made via a broker. Mr and Mrs L were looking to borrow around £203,000.
The application was reviewed by Santanders underwriters and additional information was 
requested a number of times to support the application. 
Santander informed the broker on 30 September 2020 that, based on the information 
currently held the maximum borrowing it could allow was £95,000, but more information 
would be needed for this to progress  or for the decision to be appealed.
Additional information was provided and reviewed. Santander informed the broker on 28 
October 2020 that it could potentially lend £197,000 but again further information, in a 
specific format, would still be needed before it could do so. I understand additional 
information was provided. 
Mr and Mrs L then complained to Santander in November 2020 about how long the 
application was taking. The application was reviewed by another underwriter and was 
subsequently declined. 
In response to the complaint Santander said it didnt think it had done anything wrong as it 
was required to check that the request met its lending criteria. It had requested information in 
order to do so, in an attempt to assist Mr and Mrs L rather than rejecting the application 
outright. But the information that then came to light meant the request did not meet its 
lending criteria, so it thought the application had been correctly declined.
Mr and Mrs L asked our service to consider the complaint. They were unhappy with how 
long the application had taken and they felt Santander had made repeated requests for 
information that theyd already provided. They also said they understood the reason that the 
application was eventually rejected was based on information known to Santander from the 
outset, so things shouldnt have been allowed to go on for as long as they did.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. They didnt think Santander acted 
unreasonably by referring the application to be considered by underwriters or by requesting 
information to try and establish if it could lend. But she did feel there had been some delays 
by Santander, so recommended that it pay £150 for the upset caused.
Santander agreed with the investigators opinion and confirmed it was willing to make the 
suggested offer.
Mr and Mrs L rejected the investigators opinion. They said they did not agree that Santander 
had acted reasonably and that it shouldve been clear from the outset that this application 
was not going to be approved based on the source of Mr Ls income. They said if the 
application had been rejected earlier a significant amount of cost couldve been avoided and 
so they didnt think the suggested offer was fair.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage application was submitted to Santander after it provided an agreement in 
principle. But an agreement in principle is not a commitment to lend  it is a high level, initial 
indication of what a lender may be willing to provide, subject to a full application being 
considered. Before a lender provides a mortgage, it first needs to consider all of the relevant 
information to decide if the requested borrowing meets its lending criteria. This is the 
process Santander followed here  and I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing so. And 
from what Ive seen Santander did not give a commitment to lend at any point.
There was a delay between the application first being submitted on 21 August 2020 and it 
being considered by an underwriter on 30 September 2020. Santander has acknowledged 
this took longer than it would have liked.
When the matter was considered by an underwriter, they requested more information to 
support the application from the broker. This isnt an uncommon step and I dont think it was 
unreasonable. The underwriter also indicated at that stage that Santander might not be able 
to lend the amount requested. 
The matter was reviewed again several weeks later and the level of borrowing it was 
potentially willing to provide amended  but not to the level Mr and Mrs L were seeking. The 
underwriter that made that decisions also felt additional information was required so a further 
request was made to the broker. Again, it is at Santanders discretion what information it 
deems acceptable for lending purposes. So, I again dont think this was unreasonable.
After more information was provided, Santander rejected the application as it concluded it 
did not meet its lending criteria.
I note that there were several weeks between each of the indications given to the broker and 
Mr and Mrs L about the lending decision itself. And I appreciate for them, this was a priority. 
But mortgage applications can, and often do, take some time, particularly where further 
information needs to be reviewed. And I think, once the matter was with the underwriters for 
review, the amount of time taken was reasonable.
I can see there were a number of information requests back and forth and Mr and Mrs L feel 
some of these were repeated. And it does look like similar information was requested. But 
that appears to be due to the information provided not being acceptable to Santander. 
Santander is entitled to decide its lending criteria; and what level and type of supporting 
information it requires in order to support an application and ultimately whether it is willing to 
lend. This is a matter of its commercial judgement and not something I can interfere with. So, 
while I know Mr and Mrs L found this frustrating, if the information being provided was not in 
Santanders opinion sufficient or in the right format, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
ask for this again. And Mr and Mrs L had the option at any time to apply elsewhere.
Overall, I dont think this process was handled unfairly. Mr and Mrs L were asking Santander 
to lend them a significant sum of money. I think Santander was entitled to make sure it was comfortable in doing so and to ask additional questions if it thought it necessary. There was 
a delay in the matter initially being looked into, which I accept is likely to have caused Mr and 
Mrs L frustration. Santander has agreed to pay £150 to address this following the 
investigators opinion. And in the circumstances, I think this would be a fair way to address 
the initial delay.
Mr and Mrs L have said that this application shouldve been rejected much sooner, as 
Santander shouldve known from the outset that it wasnt going to be willing to lend based on 
the information they provided. They also seem to have been given different information by 
the complaints department as to the reason for this, to what Santander has told us.
Santanders lending criteria is again a matter of its judgement and is commercially sensitive. 
So, Im not going to go into great detail about it here. Ive seen evidence that this was 
updated in August 2020  but the change doesnt seem to have impacted Mr and Mrs Ls 
application, and it appears the information they were given to this effect by Santanders 
complaints team was incorrect  which I understand is frustrating.
Mr and Mrs L have said that they understand that the application was rejected because 
Mr Ls source of income wasnt acceptable according to Santanders lending criteria from the 
outset. But from what Ive seen this isnt entirely correct. Santander has indicated it does 
accept this source of income but has limits on how much it is willing to accept. Mr and Mrs L 
say they think this shouldve been made clear from the outset. But again, lending criteria is 
commercially sensitive information and I dont think Santander is required to disclose this in 
full. And from what Ive seen, it made it clear to Mr and Mrs Ls broker on 30 September 
2020 that it might not be able to lend the amount they were seeking.
The evidence Ive been provided by Santander indicates the decision not to lend was based 
on information that was provided later in the application process  on or after 28 October 
2020, when it again requested additional information from the broker.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Santander was wrong to consider the application, 
to see if it was able to provide the requested lending based on Mr and Mrs Ls specific 
circumstances. I think that is fair  certainly fairer than rejecting things outright. Ultimately it 
has been unable to do so. But I dont think it was wrong to consider things further. And I 
dont think it has treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly by doing so.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs L £150 for the upset caused by 
the initial delay in reviewing their mortgage application.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021. 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman