DRN-1768619
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the success fee charged by Goodwin Barrett Ltd following a successful 
pension transfer claim. 
What happened 
In April 2016 Mr C contacted Goodwin Barrett to find out about making a claim regarding 
transfer of his occupational pension scheme by lender B. 
Goodwin Barrett made enquiries to find out whether they would be able to help Mr C. This 
included contacting lender B to find out if they had previously reviewed a claim for Mr C, and 
contacting lender F (the business Mr Cs pension had been transferred to). 
On 29 November Mr C signed terms and conditions for Goodwin Barrett. The terms and 
conditions explained in the event that Mr Cs claim was successful Goodwin Barrett would 
charge 35% plus VAT- total fee payable 42%. 
In December, Goodwin Barrett sent Mr Cs claim to lender B. Goodwin Barrett continued to 
deal with enquiries from lender B and lender F regarding Mr Cs pension transfer. 
In May 2017 Goodwin Barrett told Mr C that because no response had been provided to the 
claim, the claim would be sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Goodwin Barrett 
informed Mr C that the timescale for the Financial Ombudsman Service was between 6-12 
months, and theyd update Mr C as soon as they had any further information.  
In September, an adjudicator from the Financial Ombudsman Service found in favour of Mr 
Cs complaint. The findings concluded that lender B should as far as possible, put Mr C into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Lender B disagreed with these 
findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Lender B also 
continued to request additional information from Goodwin Barrett to consider his claim. 
In February 2018 lender B confirmed theyd instructed third party actuaries to investigate Mr 
Cs claim. Lender B agreed to make an interim payment of £50,000 to Mr C while his claim 
was looked into. Goodwin Barrett continued to discuss Mr Cs claim with lender B, Mr C, and 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In September, lender B informed the Financial Ombudsman Service that theyd be willing to 
settle Mr Cs claim by offering a net sum of £218,277 plus a £500 distress and 
inconvenience payment. As £50,000 had already been paid, the remainder was paid directly 
to Goodwin Barrett. Goodwin Barrett deducted their success fee, and transferred £77,300.66 
to Mr C. Following this, lender B also sent a further £300 to Goodwin Barrett. This 
compensation had been negotiated by Mr C directly so Goodwin Barrett didnt charge their 
success fee on this amount, and sent the £300 directly to Mr C. Mr C complained to Goodwin Barrett about several aspects of their handling of his claim, 
mainly concerning payment of their success fee, as he felt hed done most of the work which 
led to lender Bs offer. Mr C asked for Goodwin Barret to adjust their fee accordingly. 
Goodwin Barrett responded on 21 October saying that theyd acted reasonably, and their fee 
had been charged in line with the agreed terms and conditions. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr C referred his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial 
Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator found that the service provided by Goodwin Barrett was fair, and didnt 
recommend they do anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Mr C rejected these findings, raising several issues, including The money we are debating 
now is absolutely essential to the security of this family, not least my health and the future 
[Goodwin Barrett] galloped into a battle that had already been won because the Bank chose 
not to go up against [Mr C]. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr C. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending Goodwin Barrett do anything in settlement of this complaint.  
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C says [Goodwin Barrett] galloped into a battle that had already been won because the 
Bank chose not to go up against [Mr C]. Mr C says he did most of the hard work, and dealt 
with lender B directly. I accept that its likely that Mr C was involved with lender B, and other 
third parties in the process, to try and encourage lender B to resolve his claim faster. Its also 
likely that Mr C built a strong relationship with a representative working for lender B, which 
contributed to lender Bs decision-making on the claim. But Goodwin Barrett had been 
authorised to deal with the claim on Mr Cs behalf. Although its likely that Mr C had dealings 
with lender B directly, I cant say that the agreement with Goodwin Barrett had been 
cancelled, and was no longer effective. 
Mr C has commented that The money we are debating now is absolutely essential to the 
security of this family, not least my health and the future I agree that the success fee 
being deducted from the compensation paid by lender B, left Mr C was substantially less that 
the total compensation paid by lender B. But I dont think it would be fair to say that the 
amount owed to Goodwin Barrett should be changed because of this. I dont doubt what Mr 
C has explained about his personal circumstances, and the challenges in managing his 
finances going forward. But it would only be fair to ask Goodwin Barrett to do something in 
settlement of the complaint, like offer compensation or reduce their success fee, if there was 
evidence that theyd done something wrong. Although I appreciate Mr C feels strongly 
Goodwin Barrett didnt fulfil their contract the way they shouldve, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt support this. 
 
The contract between Mr C and Goodwin Barrett explained that payment of the success fee 
was dependent on Mr C receiving compensation  not on the amount of work completed by Goodwin Barrett. The contract summarised what Goodwin Barrett would do when dealing 
with Mr Cs claim. This included preparing correspondence, reviewing information, and 
providing representation with the Financial Ombudsman Service. Having reviewed the 
evidence, including case notes and call recordings, Im satisfied that Goodwin Barrett acted 
reasonably, and in line with their agreement with Mr C, when dealing with his claim. 
Lender B agreed to additional compensation for £300 outside of the offer communicated 
through the Financial Ombudsman Service. Goodwin Barrett didnt charge their success fee 
on this amount, recognising that it was outside of work theyd done in securing the offer 
through the Financial Ombudsman Service. I think these actions were fair, and in line with 
what wed expect in the circumstances.
Mr C instructed Goodwin Barrett to make a claim regarding transfer of his pension. In his 
comments about the service provided by Goodwin Barrett Mr C has said that a Court 
wouldve included the success fee in the settlement agreed to by lender B. But this complaint 
concerns payment of Goodwin Barretts success fee by Mr C- not what lender B shouldve 
included as part of their compensation. In considering the agreement between Mr C and 
Goodwin Barrett, I think these terms have been applied fairly. 
During a call with Goodwin Barrett following the offer from lender B, Mr C also personally 
thanked the representative at Goodwin Barrett who dealt with his claim throughout the 
process. While I appreciate Mr Cs view about the service changed, I think this evidence 
supports Goodwin Barretts position that Mr C was agreeable to the service provided, even 
towards conclusion of the claim. 
I can appreciate it mustve been upsetting for Mr C to receive an invoice, and be asked to 
pay their success fee in full, when he feels strongly that he did most the work that led to 
lender B making a payment to him. Although I can appreciate Mr Cs frustrations, I dont 
think it would be fair to say that the agreement with Goodwin Barrett doesnt apply. So I 
wont be asking Goodwin Barrett to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman