DRN-3478210
The complaint
Miss B complains Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (Berkshire) unfairly 
cancelled her motor Insurance policy and did not refund her premiums.
There are several parties and representatives of Berkshire involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Berkshire.
What happened
Miss B had a motor insurance policy with Berkshire. After an accident that happened 
towards the end of December 2020 a third party made a claim on Miss Bs insurance policy. 
Berkshire decided to admit liability. Miss B did not want to make a claim for the damage to 
her own car. Even though Miss B was not making a claim, Berkshire requested pictures of 
the damage to her car or details of the garage at which it was being kept. This was because 
it needed to make sure that the damage claimed by the third party was consistent with the 
damage to her car. 
Berkshire made several requests before obtaining a response from Miss B in which she 
gave an address of a garage. Initially the garage could not locate her car but eventually it 
did. When Berkshire inspected her car it found other damage to the vehicle not caused by 
the incident and said some temporary repairs had been carried out.
Separate to the claims process Berkshire were conducting its standard policy validation 
processes on Miss Bs policy and it requested information from Miss B. This included the 
overnight location of the car. It requested pictures of the driveway of the registered address, 
as during its validation process it found that her registered address did not have a driveway 
or garage as stated in Miss Bs policy schedule. 
Miss B said she lived between two addresses. She was also out of the country for a period 
of time in early 2021 and so there was some delay in her response to Berkshires requests 
for information. Miss B was unhappy that Berkshire were contacting her whilst she was out 
of the country and did not think it was correct for Berkshire to be asking about her travel 
plans.
On 8 April 2021 Berkshire sent a seven-day cancellation of policy notification to Miss B. 
They said the reasons were that it was not satisfied with the information she had given about 
her address and living situation and so were no longer prepared to continue with the policy. 
It further said she had not been in possession of her car for over three months, it had not 
been repaired and the MOT had expired. Its engineers said the car would not be 
economically repairable so it would not be prepared to continue cover on it.
Berkshire cancelled her policy on 15 April 2021. It said it would not be refunding any policy 
premiums because a claim had been made on the policy by a third-party.
 
As Miss B was not happy with Berkshire, she brought the complaint to our service. She 
wants the status of cancelled to be removed from her records and a full refund of the 
premiums for the remainder of months left on her insurance policy.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said Miss Bs 
responses to Berkshires questions were not enough for it to determine her correct address 
and continue the insurance. He didnt think Berkshire had been unfair in cancelling her policy 
and not refunding any premiums.
As Miss B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Berkshire contacted Miss B in January 2021 after a third party had made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy after a collision towards the end of December 2020. It started the 
claims process which included instructing its experts to look at the damage to her car.  It 
requested pictures of the damage to the car or its location so its experts could inspect it.
Berkshire informed Miss B that it had concluded she was responsible for the accident and it 
intended to settle the third-party claim. It further explained it could proceed to deal with her 
vehicle damage. Miss B told Berkshire she did not wish to pursue her claim for vehicle 
damage as she intended to pursue directly against the third party.
Separate to the claim process Berkshire noticed that Miss B had declared a different 
address on the policy than was the billing address. It requested address and driving licence 
validation. As Miss B did not reply, Berkshire sent a cancellation of policy notice to her. Miss 
B then submitted the required documents but they were still not clear about her correct 
address, so Berkshire asked for further info. However it did not cancel her policy at this 
point.
Miss B told Berkshire she lived equally between two addresses and that during Covid she 
had been a lot more at the second address which was not on her policy. Berkshire informed 
her that it would update her policy to reflect the address at which she said she spent most of 
her time at. It said this change resulted in an increased premium and it requested settlement 
of this amount.
Miss B was out of the country so there was some delay in her responses to Berkshire. Miss 
B was unhappy that Berkshire continued to contact her whilst she was out of the country and 
said she would contact it when she returned. She was not happy that Berkshire had asked 
for the dates she would be out of the country.
Miss B contested Berkshires decision to change her address to her second address as her 
car had been in the garage waiting to be repaired since her accident. She also confirmed 
she would soon be moving to a different address. She asked Berkshire to change it back to 
the original address. Berkshire agreed to this. 
I dont think Berkshire were being unreasonable to ask for extra information about Miss Bs 
correct address and I saw some of the responses Miss B gave didnt allow Berkshire to 
clarify her correct home address. The documentation she submitted did not validate one 
address or another as her main address.Miss B returned to the UK towards the end of February 2021. Berkshire contacted her again 
towards the end of March to clarify the location of the car as she had not been in touch to 
confirm this as it had requested. Initially when Berkshire tried confirming the location of the 
car with the garage Miss B had given, it could not be found. It was eventually confirmed that 
the car had been at another branch of the garage from 27 January 2021.
As Berkshire were not satisfied with the responses it received from Miss B and it had still not 
been able to clarify where Miss B lived or where the car was normally kept. It said it was no 
longer prepared to continue with her policy. It issued a seven-day cancellation letter to Miss 
B on 8 April 2021 and her policy was cancelled on 15 April 2021. 
Berkshire said it had cancelled due to Miss B still being unable to clarify her home address 
despite several requests for a full explanation. And it would not be prepared to continue 
cover on the car because she had not been in possession of it and it had not been at either 
address for more than three months. During which time the damage to it had not been 
repaired and the MOT had expired.
I have considered if the cancellation was fair and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I looked at the policy documents and note within the terms and conditions it says the 
following;
Changes to your insurance
It is important that you tell us immediately about any changes to the information that you
have provided which is detailed in your Statement of Fact, Schedule and Certificate of Motor
Insurance. You should also show your policy to anyone else who is covered under it and
ensure that they are aware of its terms and conditions. Failure to notify us of any changes
may result in your policy not being valid and we may not pay your claim. We may also
cancel or void your policy.
For example, you must tell us about:
 a change of address or change the place you keep your car;
General Conditions
12.10a Cancellation by us
 We have the right to cancel your policy by sending you seven days notice in advance of the
cancellation date to your last known email or postal address or that of your Policy
Administrator. We will return the premium for the part of the policy that you have not yet
used, provided you have not made a claim during the Period of Insurance or an incident has
occurred which may result in a claim.
An administration charge, as shown in our Terms and Conditions, will be applied if your
policy is cancelled as a result of you failing to supply us with documentation or information
we have requested, or if we discover that the information that you gave us when you took
out a policy was inaccurate or incomplete.
We may cancel your policy where there are grounds to do so, valid reasons may include but
are not limited to:
failure to meet the terms and conditions of this policy;
 where we have been unable to collect your premium;
 changes to your policy details or circumstances that we do not cover under our
policy;
 failure to provide information or documentation or you fail to do so in a way that
materially affects our ability to process a claim, or the insurers ability to defend their
interests;
 failure when requested to supply us with other relevant documentation orinformation that we need;
 failure to co-operate with us, where required to do so within the terms of this policy;
 where your car is being driven or used other than in accordance with your Certificate
of Motor Insurance;
 following a fraud or deliberate misrepresentation or if you have withheld
information; or
 use of threatening or abusive behaviour or language, or intimidation or bullying of
our staff and/or suppliers. This also includes acts that we consider inappropriate in
connection with race, religion or gender.
I saw that Miss Bs car was at a repair garage from 27 January 2022. And after looking at the 
report from the garage I think the delays to the repairs to her car were not within her control. 
I saw the car had been at the garage for more than three months waiting for all the parts to 
arrive, but this is not Miss Bs fault and think this on its own could not be the reason for 
cancellation of the policy.
However, I conclude that Berkshire have acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and it has made a fair and reasonable decision to cancel Miss Bs policy due to not 
being satisfied with the information around her address and living situation. As required, it 
gave seven days notice in advance and its reasons for cancellation are included in the 
grounds for cancellation. As there was a claim by a third-party on Miss Bs policy it was 
acceptable for Berkshire not to return any premiums. 
I understand the situation after her accident has been stressful for Miss B but unfortunately, I 
do not uphold her complaint and do not require Berkshire to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman