DRN-2890693
The complaint
 J is represented by its trustees. They say Kane Consultants (KC) received ongoing advice 
fee payments, since 2010, related to a Zurich/Allied Dunbar portfolio bond (now 
administered by LCL International) belonging to J, despite servicing of the bond having been 
transferred to a new firm in the same year. They seek refund-based compensation for J that 
also reflects investment performance opportunity lost because of deductions from the bond 
for the payments to KC.
What happened
 A summary of the background is as follows:
The trustees engaged the [financial] advisory services of KC in 1998 and in 1999 Js 
investment in the bond was made.
KC received what the trustees understood as ongoing advice fees (at the rate of 
0.25% of value) deducted from the bond, for its servicing of the bond, from 1999 
onwards. In 2010 the trustees terminated KCs engagement and servicing of the 
bond was transferred to a new firm. The new firms ongoing advice and servicing 
charges were not deducted from the bond, instead they were paid for separately.
The trustees explain that, unknown to them, ongoing advice fees continued to be 
deducted from the bond and paid to KC, until 2018 when LCL brought it to their 
attention and the deductions were stopped. LCL had undertaken administration of the 
bond in the previous year (2017) and had written to KC pursuant to a revision of how 
payments were to be made. LCL says the deductions were cancelled after KC failed 
to engage with the revised arrangements. 
The trustees wrote to KC in February 2019 seeking a refund of the payments. They 
did broadly the same again in July 2019 and, without the resolution they sought, they 
referred the matter to this service in August 2019.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and initially concluded that it 
should not be upheld  whilst also observing that KC had not engaged with the 
investigation process at the time. She referred to information obtained within her 
investigation which defined the deductions not as ongoing advice fees but as trail 
commission. She explained how such commission that began before onset of the 
Retail Distribution Review in 2013 could legitimately continue whilst the relevant firm 
remained the servicing firm for an investment, even if no ongoing service was 
performed. She considered this distinct from an ongoing advice fee where an 
ongoing advice service must exist to justify the fee.
The trustees objected to this outcome and stressed points, and evidence, in support 
of their claims that the deductions were ongoing advice fees directly linked to the 
existence of an ongoing advice service, and that no such service from KC existed 
after the transfer in 2010. The investigator looked further into the matter and obtained 
evidence from LCL that confirmed the trustees assertion. LCL confirmed that the 
deductions were ongoing advice fees and that trail commission was treated 
differently and was not deducted from the bond.
The investigator issued a revised view upholding the complaint. In the course of 
doing so, she obtained new email details for KC and sought its engagement through 
this, but KC does not appear to have responded (to date). Whilst the revised view 
concluded that the complaint should be upheld, the investigator noted that the 
regulators time limit rules for complaints to this service mean Js claim for 
compensation can only be granted for the deductions from 2013 onwards, because 
those previously were made more than six years before Js complaint in 2019  
based on the six years time limit for complaints. In this respect, she considered the 
alternative three years time limit, with regards to when J/the trustees knew or ought 
to have known of cause for complaint (that is, known of the deductions) and she 
concluded that the separate ongoing advice fee payment arrangement for the new 
firm meant that [duplicating] ongoing deductions from the bond for the same purpose 
ought to have been noticed in the bond statements, ought to have indicated to them 
that KC was still receiving fee payments and ought to have given them cause for 
complaint earlier than 2018. 
The investigator proposed redress for J based on a comparison between how the 
bond performed (with the deductions) from 2013 to 2018 and how it would have 
performed without the deductions over the same period  with the difference, if the 
latters performance value is greater than the formers, paid to J with interest.
The trustees accepted the revised outcome but requested that calculation of the six 
years period should begin in February 2013 in order to reflect their complaint, within 
six years thereafter, in February 2019; and the investigator agreed. As KC did not 
respond to the revised view, the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same outcome expressed in the investigators revised 
view for the same reasons she gave. 
The balance of evidence appears to fully support J and the trustees claim that the fees 
deducted from the bond and paid to KC from 2010 to 2018 were illegitimately received by 
KC. 
KC ceased its service to J and to the bond in 2010; the terms of that service and the 
evidence confirmed by LCL (based on information they inherited) both confirm that the 
payments that continued to be received by KC from the bond and from 2010 onwards were 
ongoing advice fee payments; KC was not entitled to receive those payments because its 
appointment had been terminated in 2010 and, more importantly, it was no longer providing 
that ongoing service (from 2010 onwards); and there is reliable documentary evidence 
confirming the deductions and their amounts.
For the above reasons, including those given in the investigators revised view, Js complaint 
is upheld in principle. I refer to this conclusion as one in principle because, as I set out below, I agree with the investigators finding on redress, so unfortunately for J only the net 
fair value of its claim between 2013 and 2018 is to be compensated for  not the value 
between 2010 and 2018.
Putting things right
 The regulators Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules say that we cannot consider a complaint referred 
more than six years after the event or (if later) more than three years after the complainant knew or 
ought reasonably to have known there was cause to complain  unless the complainant has written 
(or some other) record that shows a complaint was made in time. A late complaint can be 
considered if exceptional circumstances caused its delay.
I have not seen evidence  or written (or some other) record  of a complaint submitted by (or on 
behalf of) J earlier than the trustees complaint in 2019  and, in this respect, I agree with their 
assertion that their letter to KC of 22 February 2019 stands as their first complaint on the 
illegitimate fee payments matter. I also have not seen evidence of exceptional circumstances 
causing a delay to Js complaint. 
The subject of Js complaint is the deductions from the bond (for payments to KC) that began in 
2010, so the complaint in 2019 is outside the six years time limit. With regards to the three years 
time limit, I agree with the investigators concluding view. The separate fee payment arrangement 
with the new firm, which was outwith the bond, ought reasonably to have made the deductions 
from within the bond (and for the same ongoing advice purpose) stand out in the bond statements 
from 2010 onwards. As such J ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint about them 
more than three years before 2019  and no later than within the first year of the new firms service 
to the bond (between 2010 and 2011) when the [duplicated] ongoing advice fee 
deductions/payments should have been picked up from the statements.
The result of the above finding is that the period over which J is entitled to compensation from KC 
is the period beginning on 22 February 2013 and ending when the deductions from the bond 
stopped.
Fair Compensation
Fair compensation for J should be based on putting the bond into the position it should now be in 
but for the deductions and payments to KC (within the time period stated above). As the 
investigator said, redress should not be limited to a refund of the total deductions. The deductions 
had a direct impact on the bonds performance because they reduced capital within the bond (and 
therefore denied the bond the benefit of performance on the deducted capital). Redress should be 
based on compensating J for the total deductions and any performance lost in the bond because of 
the total deductions.
What must KC do?
To compensate J fairly, KC must:
Calculate the performance of Js LCL (formerly Zurich/Allied Dunbar) portfolio bond, 
with the ongoing advice fee deductions and payments to KC, between 22 February 
2013 and the date on which the deductions were stopped. This constitutes the 
portfolio bonds actual value.Calculate how Js LCL (formerly Zurich/Allied Dunbar) portfolio bond would have 
performed between the same dates without the ongoing advice fee deductions and 
payments to KC. This constitutes the portfolio bonds fair value.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, KC must pay J the difference as 
compensation. It must also pay J interest on the compensation at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date immediately after termination of the ongoing advice fee 
deductions to the date compensation to J is settled.
If it is possible for KC to pay the compensation (including interest) into the portfolio 
bond it should do so, otherwise it should be paid directly to J.
Provide the details of the calculations to J in a clear and simple format.
The trustees must ensure disclosure to KC of  and must grant KC access to  all 
information and documentation related to the relevant ongoing advice fee deductions from 
the portfolio bond, related to KCs calculation of redress and reasonably required (and 
requested) by KC in order to calculate redress.
Compensation Limits
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Js complaint. I order Kane Consultants to 
compensate J as set out above and to provide J with calculations of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman