DRN-3267610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has refunded only half of the 
amount they lost in an investment scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have a joint personal account with Barclays. Ill mainly refer in this decision to 
Mr T, as he was the one that made the payments as part of a scam.
What Mr and Mrs T say
Mr T says he saw an investment opportunity on a social media platform and left his contact 
details for the company, that Ill refer to as K, to contact him. He then received a call from 
someone saying he was from K who offered Mr T a one-year fixed rate bond with a 5% 
interest rate. The bond was with a different company, but Mr T says he was told K was 
loaning money to that other company so had created bond opportunities. Mr T says hed 
invested for fixed terms previously. After a number of calls Mr T said his funds were tied up 
elsewhere but the representative of K agreed to call him at a later date, at which point he 
told Mr T the bond deadline was in two days, so he needed to act quickly. 
Mr T decided to go ahead with the investment but says that there was a daily investment 
limit, so he initially transferred £50,000 of the £65,000 he intended to invest. He believed the 
payments were being made to a holding company for K. In error, Mr T then transferred 
£15,000 from his business account rather than the joint personal account. As he couldnt see 
the debit on his personal account transaction history, he then made a further payment of 
£15,000 from the joint account he held with Mrs T. When Mr T realised his error, he asked K 
to return £15,000 but was told this would take some time so Mr T decided to invest the 
additional sum, meaning his total investment was £80,000.
It was only when Mr T later saw a television programme and tried to contact K that he 
realised he was the victim of a scam. K was in fact a clone of a genuine investment 
company. He contacted Barclays on 18 October 2019 to report the scam. Barclays was 
unable to recover any funds but refunded 50% of Mr and Mrs Ts total loss. Mr and Mrs T 
would like Barclays to refund the rest.
What Barclays say
Barclays said it could have done more to protect Mr and Mrs T. It notes that it deferred the 
£50,000 payment but cant find any evidence that it had a conversation with Mr or Mrs T at 
the time. But Barclays has held Mr and Mrs T responsible too because it says Mr T didnt 
complete any checks before he made the payments. In addition to this, Mr T saw the advert 
on a social media platform and there was a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning 
about K in May 2019 which specifically mentioned cloned firms and how they were trying to 
scam people.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Barclays refund the 
payments from Mr and Mrs Ts joint account in full. She said this because:
- Mr T was required to follow a normal application process and provide identification.
- The scammers sounded professional and knowledgeable and provided genuine 
looking documents that included an FCA number, so Mr T didnt think he also needed 
to check the register. The email address used by the scammer also looked genuine 
and so did the website. Mr T didnt know a genuine investment company had been 
cloned. 
- Barclays should have completed further checks before making a £50,000 payment to 
a new payee and, had it done so, the scam would have been uncovered. 
The investigator didnt consider the £15,000 payment that in error was sent from a business 
account as the company is no longer trading. 
Barclays didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me. In summary, Barclays made the following points:
- The investigator believes Mr T had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a 
genuine investment because of the amount of literature he received and the fact it 
had the FCA number on it. But Barclays thinks that given Mr Ts profession he should 
have known about the importance of checking the FCA register and completed 
further checks before investing such large sums of money. 
- The fact that a website looks legitimate doesnt mean it is.
- A month before the payments were made a clone warning appeared on the FCA 
register so if Mr T had checked before making the payments he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the payments.
- Barclays referred the first payment of £50,000 but didnt speak to Mr or Mrs T about it 
and for this reason agreed to pay half their loss. Barclays considers it odd that after 
this Mr T went ahead and made a £15,000 payment from his business account rather 
than calling to see why the payment was declined. 
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Barclays say one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. It says Mr T made the payments without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: 
- The payee was the person Mr T was expecting to pay;
- The payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- The person or business with whom Mr T transacted was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
I am also mindful that when Mr T made these payments, Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:Under the terms of the CRM Code, Barclays should have refunded the money Mr 
and Mrs T lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Barclays should in any event have intervened when the first payment was made as it 
was unusual and out of character for Mr and Mrs T and if it had done so, Im satisfied 
the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Barclays should fairly and reasonably refund all the money Mr 
and Mrs T lost from their joint account. 
The money was taken from the Mr and Mrs Ts current account. Its not clear how 
they would have used the money if Barclays had refunded it when it should have 
done, so Barclays should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 
8% simple per year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Like the investigator, I havent considered the £15,000 transferred from Mr Ts business 
account in error because Mr T has explained the business was dissolved in 2017 so is no 
longer a legal entity. This means that Mr Ts business isnt an eligible complainant under our 
rules and cant bring a complaint to our service. 
I have carefully considered Barclays representations about whether Mr and Mrs T had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me 
to reach a different view.  In particular, Im not persuaded that Mr T failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for Barclays to choose not to reimburse under the terms of 
the CRM Code. Im also not persuaded Barclays met its obligation to protect Mr and Mrs T 
from fraud.
Did Mr and Mrs T have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments?
Im satisfied that Barclays has not shown that Mr and Mrs T lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
- This was a sophisticated fraud which involved a cloned financial services firm. Mr T 
found the details online and genuinely believed he was interacting with the genuine 
firm. He wasnt cold-called but received a call after leaving his contact details. Mr T 
has explained that he spoke to the fraudsters on the telephone a few times before 
deciding to invest. I consider this to be a powerful interaction which builds trust and 
confidence. Mr T was also taken through an application process and was required to 
provide identification documents before his investment could be accepted. Cloning a 
genuine firm and mirroring its processes like this gives the interaction legitimacy. I 
think its reasonable that this went undetected by Mr T.
- From what I have seen, the correspondence Mr T received is in line with what he 
would have expected to receive in connection with a genuine investment of this type. 
Mr T received an introduction email that contained information that was lifted from the 
website of the genuine investment company, a brochure and terms and conditions. 
The emails he received appeared to be genuine and also included disclaimers. So I 
can understand why Mr T thought he was dealing with a genuine company. 
- Barclays is particularly concerned that Mr T didnt search the FCA register to find and 
verify information about K. But I dont agree it was unreasonable for Mr T not to have 
done so in the circumstances of this complaint. At the time, Mr T fully believed he 
was in contact with a genuine firm he had heard of. The emails and other 
documentation he received showed the registration number of the genuine firm and 
Mr T relied on this. Barclays thinks that because of Mr Ts profession before he 
retired, he should have known about cloned investment companies and of the 
importance of checking the FCA register but I disagree. Im not persuaded that the 
skills needed for Mr Ts profession included knowledge of how to protect himself from 
scams and, in particular, cloned investment firms that give the appearance of being legitimate. 
- Im also mindful that Mr T would probably not have known exactly what information 
he should verify on the FCA register unless he was given guidance about the 
significance of that additional search. Mr T wasnt provided with any form of warning 
about the prevalence of cloned investment companies or what to look out for. 
- Barclays says that after it referred the first payment of £50,000 and Mr T should have 
contacted it about this before making a further payment. Ive not seen any evidence 
of any contact with Mr or Mrs T about the £50,000 payment so cant see how either 
of them would have known that Barclays had any concerns at that stage. 
Should Barclays have done more to protect Mr and Mrs T from financial harm from fraud?
Ive also concluded that Barclays couldve prevented all the payments from being made. The 
first payment request was for £50,000 to a new payee. This was significantly out of character 
and unusual activity for Mr and Mrs T and I think there was enough going on here to have 
caused Barclays concern they might be at risk of financial harm. I note that Barclays flagged 
the payment but hasnt been able to produce any evidence to show it had a conversation 
with Mr or Mrs T to satisfy itself they werent at risk of harm.     
Ive no reason to believe that Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have answered Barclays questions 
honestly and in response to their answers, ought fairly and reasonably to have explained 
that cloned investment firms can pose as genuine investment firms for the purpose of 
scamming people. I believe Barclays should also have explained how they could protect 
themselves from such a scam and the importance of checking the FCA register. 
I dont think it would have been difficult to persuade Mr and Mrs T to carry out some 
additional checks before going ahead with the first substantial payment. A bank employee 
could, for example, have recommended that Mr T call the business he thought he was 
dealing with, ideally using the contact number on the entry on the FCA Register. If that had 
happened, the scam wouldve unravelled quite quickly, and Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have 
made any payments to the fraudster.
The impact of my finding that Barclays should have prevented the loss is that interest should 
be paid from the date of Mr and Mrs Ts loss rather than the date Barclays chose not to 
provide a full refund under the CRM Code. 
Did Barclays do enough to try and recover Mr and Mrs Ts money once it was aware of the 
fraud?
Ive seen evidence that shows that Barclays contacted the bank that received Mr and Mrs 
Ts funds within minutes of Mr Ts call to report the scam. The receiving bank confirmed that 
no funds remained. In the circumstances, I consider Barclays acted reasonably and promptly 
to try to recover Mr and Mrs Ts funds. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr T made the payments with a reasonable basis for believing that they 
were for a legitimate investment. I also believe that Barclays could have prevented Mr and 
Mrs T from falling victim to the scam in the first place.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Ive found that Mr and Mrs T ought to have been fully refunded the payments from their joint 
account and that it is fair and reasonable that Barclays reimburse them now.I therefore require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
- Pay Mr and Mrs T the remaining 50% of the money they lost from their personal joint 
account  £32,500;
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement - less any tax lawfully deductible. Barclays should send Mr and 
Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if asked for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman