DRN-3858349
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy with the way Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) settled and handled her 
claim for a lost mobile phone.
What happened
Miss V had mobile phone insurance to cover her for loss, theft and accidental damage. She 
lost her phone on 19 July 2022 and submitted a claim to Chubb the same day. Chubb 
accepted the claim, applied the excess fee of £120 to her phone bill and arranged for a 
replacement phone to be sent to her the following day.
After receiving the replacement phone, Miss V contacted Chubb as she was unhappy with 
the quality of the phone she had received. She reported the phone as having scratches and 
explained it wasnt functioning as it shouldve been. Miss V encountered some difficulties 
when trying to report the issues but eventually managed to speak to someone who arranged 
for a replacement phone to be sent. The agent said, as Miss V had lost her phone she 
shouldve received a new phone originally and confirmed that a brand new phone would be 
sent. She also logged a complaint for Miss V about the issue with the original phone and the 
service Miss V had received.
Miss V received another replacement phone but it wasnt brand new.
Chubb accepted their customer service fell short of what theyd expect and said that Miss V 
had incorrectly been told the replacement phone would be brand new. But they confirmed 
that the terms and conditions are clear that replacement phones will be from refurbished 
stock. They apologised and credited £100 towards Miss Vs airtime bill in view of the service 
they provided.
Miss V remained unhappy and referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think Chubb needed to take any further action as he thought the £100 credit and the 
replacement phone was a fair resolution to the complaint.
As Miss V remains unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chubb have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. The terms and conditions 
set out the agreement between Miss V and Chubb and detail what is and isnt covered and 
how they will settle claims.
In relation to replacement phones the terms and conditions say:
About the replacement Mobile Phone or Connected Device
The replacement Mobile Phone or Connected Device will be of the same or similar 
specification, but it may be a different model or operating system. The replacement will 
be from refurbished stock that has been tested and is fully functional. 
Whilst I accept Miss V was given incorrect information that in the event of a loss the 
replacement would be brand new, Its clear from the terms and conditions replacements 
arent brand new but are refurbished stock. So Im satisfied Chubb have provided a 
replacement in line with the terms and conditions.
Miss V explained there was an issue with the quality of the replacement, so Chubb arranged 
for a further replacement to be sent the following day. I understand this wouldve been 
frustrating for Miss V, but Chubb have apologised and promptly arranged for another phone 
to be sent to her. 
I understand that whilst trying to report the issues Miss V encountered with the replacement 
phone, she didnt receive a good level of service, she had difficulties getting help and the 
phone hung up on her on a few occasions. Chubb have accepted they handled the claim 
poorly, they apologised and credited £100 to Miss Vs airtime bill. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances as they dealt with the issue in good time, providing a 
replacement phone quickly and have apologised for the lack of service and incorrect 
information given. And as the cost of Miss Vs excess was added to her airtime bill, I dont 
think its unreasonable for Chubb to apply the compensation as a credit to the bill.
Miss V has explained that she has checked with the manufacturer and is aware that they 
detail specific codes when a phone has been refurbished. And having viewed the code on 
the phone she had received this doesnt suggest it was refurbished. However, the terms and 
conditions dont specify that the phone will be refurbished by the manufacturer. So, this 
doesnt persuade me the phone wasnt refurbished. In any event Chubb have since provided 
a replacement. 
Im aware Miss V remained unhappy with the further replacement and that the phone has 
since broken but this needs to be considered by Chubb in the first instance, so that isnt 
something Ive considered as part of this complaint. 
Overall, Im satisfied Chubb have handled the claim in line with the terms and conditions and 
theyve fairly compensated Miss V for the poor service provided.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman