DRN-2079199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy that Mr and Mrs R bought in 1994, in 
connection with a joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr R if he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs R the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs R are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs R say the PPI was presented to them as part of the overall mortgage package, 
and that Halifax didnt give them a proper choice about buying the policy. Ive thought about 
everything Mr and Mrs R have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs R and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs R have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs R to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
- Mr R wasnt entitled to employer sick pay if he couldnt work because of sickness or 
accident, and Mr and Mrs R have told me they didnt have any savings. So I think the PPI 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs R if Mr R couldnt work.   
- Mr R wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs R needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs R before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
Mr and Mrs R have mentioned a claim they tried to make on the policy that was turned down by 
Halifax. They havent been able to provide any evidence of this, so Halifax hasnt been able to look 
into the matter. 
If Mr and Mrs R are able to find any evidence of the claim, they may want to consider raising the 
issue as a separate complaint with Halifax. If theyre not happy with the banks response, they may 
be able to refer the matter to this service for further consideration.
But for the purpose of the mis-sale complaint, Im not persuaded that Halifax did anything wrong so 
I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman