DRN-3077068
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
2004 when Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) mis-sold them MPPI. 
The type of MPPI policy Mr and Mrs A were sold was called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a 
form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
This decision is about the MPPI element of the cover.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with 
this, so the complaint has come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr and Mrs A, so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs A say that they didnt know about the MPPI  but I think that its most likely that 
Bank of Scotland did make Mr and Mrs A aware of the policy  and that they agreed to take 
it out.
Bank of Scotland no longer has the paperwork that was completed at the time of sale  but 
this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely. But Bank of Scotland has provided a lot of information about the 
sales process that was involved when selling the type of policy that Mr and Mrs A took out, 
including samples of the paperwork that wouldve been completed at the time.
This paperwork shows that the MPPI wouldve been presented as a separate, optional 
product  and that a consumer wouldve needed to actively consent for the policy to have 
been put in place, as well as making choices about the level of cover, and benefit split.
And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs A wouldve completed different 
paperwork than that provided by Bank of Scotland.
Bank of Scotland has said that it wouldve provided a recommendation to Mr and Mrs A at 
the time they took out the policy  which means it wouldve had to take extra steps to make 
sure that the policy is sold was right for them  and given what Mr and Mrs A have told me 
about their circumstances, I think that it was.
Mrs A has confirmed that she had a second job at the time the policy was sold  but from 
what shes said, these seems like a casual evening job a few days a week, and she didnt 
have a contract in place. So, I dont think that this wouldve made the policy unsuitable for 
her.
Its possible that some of the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs A about the 
policy wasnt as clear as it shouldve been, but as I think they chose to take it out - it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information 
about the policy would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything that Mr and Mrs A have said, but the points they have raised 
dont change my conclusion, and I dont uphold this complaint.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy 
Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
who make the rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for 
businesses to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will 
sometimes need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI 
policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the
information Ive seen, Mr and Mrs As mortgage doesnt fit into these dates - and so I
dont think Bank of Scotland have to refund any of the commission you paid on your
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman