DRN-4248819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that they were given poor customer service by 
more 2 life Ltd (m2l).
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs W would like m2l to pay compensation for their financial 
losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 6 December 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Through a broker, Mr and Mrs W applied for an equity release lifetime mortgage with m2l. 
The surveyor who valued the property noticed issues with the property  initially the roof (for 
which Mr and Mrs W obtained quotations for remedial work). The surveyor thought the 
property was worth £297,000, but with roof repairs, would be worth the £300,000 that 
Mr and Mrs W thought the property was worth.
Following this, the business which was providing the funds to m2l (a business which I will 
call JG) raised additional queries because the surveyor had said the garage conversion 
didnt comply with building regulations. Ultimately, JG accepted the property as suitable 
security, but at a valuation of £290,000, £10,000 less than Mr and Mrs W thought the 
property was worth. Before m2l was able to issue the mortgage offer, their broker put the 
application on hold and a complaint was made.
In its final response letter m2l didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr and Mrs W raised it with our 
service. An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think m2l had done 
anything wrong. The investigator explained that m2l was entitled to rely on the opinion of its 
surveyor in relation to the condition of the property. However, ultimately m2l was willing to 
make an offer of mortgage, but Mr and Mrs W decided not to proceed.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the investigators findings. Theyve said that their complaint 
is actually that m2l never told them that it wouldnt be able to make an offer for the amount 
stated on the Key Facts Illustration (KFI). 
Mr and Mrs W say that they assumed, once the surveyor had been instructed to carry out a 
valuation, that m2l had made a decision in principle to lend the full amount.  They say that, 
after the valuation when the property had been down-valued to £297,000, m2l would not at 
any time after that point have been able to offer the amount shown on the KFI.
As a result, based on a false understanding that they would be able to have the full amount 
they needed, Mr and Mrs W say they lost out on going to another lender to get an equity 
release mortgage at the higher figure they needed while interest rates were lower. 
Mr and Mrs W have now completed an equity release mortgage with another provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain here that I am only able to look at the actions of m2l in this complaint, not the 
surveyors (who are independent of m2l) or JG, from which m2l obtains its funding. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that they didnt know m2l was funded by JG, but 
thats not something I can consider; the way m2l funds its lending is outside the scope of our 
rules, as it doesnt relate to a regulated activity.
Mr and Mrs W have said that they assumed, once the surveyor was instructed, that m2l had 
decided to offer them the amount they needed, as detailed on the KFI provided by their 
broker. They were therefore dismayed to find out that the property had been down-valued.
However, a KFI is exactly what it says  an illustration. Before a mortgage offer could be 
issued, m2l had to consider the application and ensure it met its lending criteria. 
I wont comment on what the surveyor said  because, as a Member of the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors, hes not covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. But m2l 
was entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the surveyor about what work needed to 
be done to the roof. Ultimately on 15 July 2022 the surveyor agreed that the property could 
be valued at £300,000, without any retention for the roofing works. 
However, it was JG, not m2l, that then raised further queries about the property in relation to 
the garage extension being non-compliant with building regulations. As I said above, I cant 
comment on what JG did, or didnt do, on this application, or its dealings with the surveyor. 
Ultimately the surveyor revised the valuation to £290,000.
At the point where m2l was ready to issue a mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs Ws broker put the 
application on hold, presumably on Mr and Mrs Ws instructions. That was their choice, so 
m2l never got to the point of issuing the offer. Mr and Mrs W have now taken out a mortgage 
with another lender, presumably on the advice of their broker.
Im satisfied that there was no guarantee that m2l would lend the amount stated in the KFI. It 
was up to Mr and Mrs Ws broker to explain that the application was subject to survey, 
underwriting and meeting m2ls lending criteria, and that a KFI is not a guaranteed offer of 
loan. The queries raised by the surveyor and JG about the property appear to be legitimate 
concerns. Im satisfied that m2l wasnt able to over-ride these and issue an offer for the 
amount Mr and Mrs W wanted without the approval of JG, as it wouldnt have had the 
funding to do so.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W are disappointed that they werent able to go ahead with m2l, but 
overall Im not persuaded that m2l has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman