DRN-2581345
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank Plc are holding him liable for a transaction that he says he 
didnt make or authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Mr G says he was involved in a car accident and 
some of his property, including his drivers licence and debit card, were left in the car when it 
was recovered to a pound. 
When Mr G went to collect his property, he realised his drivers licence and debit card had 
been stolen. He noticed a payment for £170 on his account that he says he didnt make, and 
he reported this to Lloyds. Lloyds initially issued him a refund whilst they raised a 
chargeback with the merchant involved. 
The merchant provided what Lloyds said was compelling evidence that the item ordered had 
been sent to Mr G and that it had been signed for with his drivers licence being used as 
proof of identity. Based on this Lloyds decided to decline Mr Gs fraud claim, they later re-
debited his account with the £170. 
Mr G complained, he is adamant that he didnt make the transaction and thinks its unfair that 
he is now £170 out of pocket. Lloyds maintained their position and the matter was referred to 
our service. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she thought it was more likely than not that Mr G had authorised the payment and that 
Lloyds had acted fairly. 
As he still disagrees, Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. I know 
this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
In cases like this I need to decide whether its more likely than not that Mr G authorised the 
transaction he disputes. Im satisfied that the transaction was correctly authenticated, that 
being the correct card details were entered online when the payment was made. But that 
isnt, on its own, enough to conclude that Mr G authorised the payment. I also need to 
consider whether he consented to the payment being made.  
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr G authorised the payment. The evidence 
from the merchant shows that the item ordered was delivered to Mr Gs home address. The 
evidence also showed that it was signed for and that his drivers licence was used as proof 
of identity. Mr G has suggested someone could have waited outside his address to intercept 
the delivery, but the use of photo identity and signature verification means I think this is less 
likely to be what happened. 
I think its unlikely that if an unknown third party were responsible for the transaction, that 
they would have chosen to give Mr Gs home address for the delivery, when an alternative 
address could have been provided. 
Mr G has also pointed out that the IP address evidence from the merchant comes back to a 
location which is approximately 15 miles away from his home address. Ive considered this, 
but IP Addresses can be manipulated and the difference in location doesnt persuade me 
that Mr G didnt authorise the transaction. 
Mr G also says he wouldnt have gone to the trouble of pursuing a complaint with our service 
if it wasnt a genuine claim. Again, Ive thought about this, but looking at all the evidence and 
facts of this case, I still think its more likely than not that Mr G made the transaction he 
disputes. The fact that a complaint has been made and pursued, doesnt change my mind on 
this. In any dispute there are two sides to consider, but I find the delivery address and 
identification provided at the time of delivery, to be more persuasive evidence than Mr Gs 
testimony. As such, I think Lloyds handled this matter fairly and so Im not going to require 
them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman