DRN-3706145
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr R holds jointly with Santander UK Plc. The 
essence of the complaint is that since the mortgage has fallen due for repayment, Santander 
has refused to give Mr R more time to sell the property so that his daughter can complete 
her education.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr R and Santander Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr R has a mortgage in several parts that have fallen due for repayment between 2018 and 
2020. Mr R needs to sell the property to repay the mortgage, but doesnt want to do so until 
his daughter has finished her education
Santander has declined Mr Rs request to extend the mortgage. Its explained that the 
mortgage has substantial arrears, and the balance has been going up during the period the 
various terms have expired. Its concluded from this that the mortgage in unaffordable, and 
because of that, it isnt in Mr Rs best interests to continue with it.
Our investigator agreed with Santanders position. Mr R asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr R borrowed money from Santander, and under the term of 
his agreement with Santander, was due to have repaid it between around two and four years 
ago. As yet, he hasnt done so; and the available evidence suggests thats because he 
doesnt wish to yet, rather than because he cant. 
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed 
before; theyre not automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen 
due. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term 
extension, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and 
being mindful of what mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially 
sensitive and not generally made public.
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude that Santanders decision not to 
extend the mortgage was made unfairly. When I consider the regulations Santander has to 
observe, I agree that it would not be in Mr Rs best interests to allow him to continue with a 
mortgage when the balance outstanding on it has gone up during the period the various 
terms were expiring. Santander has to consider the possibility that the debt will rise further in 
the future if it extends the term and Mr R continues to accrue arrears.
It seems that Mr Rs only means of repaying the mortgage is by selling the mortgaged 
property. I appreciate why he doesnt want to sell just now. However, the truth is that 
Santander has already shown Mr R a degree of patience and forbearance. I say that 
because around two years have passed since the last of the expiry dates passed. 
Santander didnt immediately demand repayment of the overdue debt, and even after it did 
begin recovery action, it then paused the action and kept it on hold whilst we considered the 
complaint. Its not obliged to do that indefinitely, and we cant order it to, especially if it 
means interest continues to accrue and Mr R continues to struggle. Were that to happen, the 
position hell eventually find himself is more likely to be worse, rather than better, than it is 
now. Lastly, its worth pointing out that the expiry of the mortgage wont have come as a 
surprise to Mr R. He has the entire life of the various mortgages to come up with a plan for 
repaying the mortgage before it was actually due, plus the additional time since the expiry 
dates passed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman