DRN-3419290
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs G complain that Europ Assistance S.A (EA) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 February 2021, Mr R and Mrs G took out a single trip travel insurance to cover a trip 
theyd booked between 13 and 27 March 2021. The insurance was held alongside their flight 
booking. They were due to travel to a country Ill call P. However, as a result of a stay-at-
home order from the Scottish government to restrict the spread of Covid-19, Mr R and Mrs 
Gs outbound flight was rescheduled for 23 June 2021. The insurance was transferred to 
cover the new trip dates.
However, on 23 June 2021, Ps government announced new travel restrictions for arrivals 
from the UK. These said that any traveller who wasnt fully vaccinated would need to 
quarantine for 10-days from their arrival. Mr R and Mrs G said quarantine wouldnt be 
possible for them, given Mr Rs health and various appointments theyd arranged and also 
because theyd have needed to quarantine for most of their trip. So they made a claim on 
their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the cancellation of their trip.
EA turned down the claim. It relied on a number of specific, listed exclusions which it said 
applied to the circumstances of Mr R and Mrs Gs claim. 
Mr R and Mrs G were unhappy with EAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She felt that the cancellation of 
the holiday had been down to the prohibitive regulations of Ps government, which was 
specifically excluded by the policy terms. And she also noted that the policy specifically 
excluded any claims arising from Covid-19. So she felt itd been fair for EA to turn down Mr 
R and Mrs Gs claim.
Mr R and Mrs G disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to the investigator. They felt 
their trip should be treated as if itd been cancelled on 13 March 2021  over three months 
before Ps government had imposed new restrictions. At this point, the trip had been 
cancelled due to the lockdown imposed by the Scottish government. At the time of the 
original flight, thered been no requirement for UK nationals entering P to be fully-vaccinated. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R and Mrs G, I think it was fair for EA to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr R and Mrs Gs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether EA treated 
them fairly. 
I understand that the situation in which Mr R and Mrs G found themselves was completely 
outside of their control and I sympathise with their position.  However, no insurance policy 
covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to 
accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, EAs obligations under its 
contract with Mr R and Mrs G are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are 
set out in the policy. 
Mr R and Mrs Gs policy says that EA will pay for a policyholders unused, pre-paid 
cancellation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured 
events. The Cancellation and Curtailment section of the policy lists the following specific, 
insured events it covers in the event of a policyholders cancellation:
a. Death, serious injury or illness during the period of insurance of:
you, or
a person you are travelling with, or
a relative, or
a close business associate who lives in your country of residence, or
a friend or relative who lives abroad, with whom you were staying.
b. You, or the person you are travelling with:
 being required in your country of residence for jury service or as a witness in a court 
of law, or
being placed under compulsory quarantine, or
being required to be present by the police, as a result of your, or their home or usual 
place of business in your country of residence suffering a burglary within seven days 
before the start of your trip
 suffering accidental damage to your, or their home that renders the home 
uninhabitable, within seven days before the start of your trip.
 being made redundant, providing you qualify for redundancy payment under current 
redundancy legislation
being posted overseas or receiving emergency requirements of duty in the Armed 
Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services.
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out a specific list of things EA excludes from 
cover. One of these is:
any costs in respect of the following:
 any claims arising directly, or indirectly from the cancellation or curtailment of travel 
arrangements, in any way caused by, or contributed to by any order or recommendation issued by a government, public or local authority.
And the General Exclusions section of the contract - which applies to all sections of the 
policy - includes the following terms:
This insurance does not cover:
prohibitive regulations by the government of any country
epidemics or infectious diseases; infectious diseases caused by a virus belonging to 
the coronavirus family such as SARS and coronavirus COVID 19.
In this case, the evidence suggests Mr R and Mrs G told EA theyd cancelled their trip due to 
the travel restrictions imposed by Ps government in June 2021. Ive read the communication 
from Ps government which Mr R and Mrs G sent us and I can see that unless fully-
vaccinated, travellers from the UK would be subject to a 10-day quarantine on arrival in P. 
Its clear that this restriction was imposed in order to restrict the spread of Covid-19. 
So it seems to me that based on the information it appears they gave EA, the main reason 
Mr R and Mrs G cancelled their trip was because of the travel restrictions introduced by Ps 
government. This isnt something which is included as a listed, insured event under the 
cancellation section of the policy. And as such then, I think it was fair for EA to conclude that 
not only was the claim not covered, but that it had arisen because of Ps government orders. 
I also think it was fair for EA to conclude that those orders were prohibitive regulations which 
were imposed as a direct result of Covid-19. On this basis, I find that EA acted fairly when it 
concluded that the claim was specifically excluded from cover on a number of grounds.
It's clear Mr R and Mrs G feel strongly that the effective cancellation date should be treated 
as 13 March 2021  the date of their original flight. Ive thought about this. But Ive also 
borne in mind the timeline of events. Scotland was placed into a national lockdown on 4 
January 2021 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In my view though, the extent of these 
restrictions cant reasonably be classed as quarantine, given people could leave their homes 
for a list of essential reasons. Scotlands stay-at-home order was in place both at the time Mr 
R and Mrs G took out their policy and was still in place on 13 March 2021  the date they 
were originally due to fly. It seems to me then that even if I were to accept 13 March 2021 as 
the date of effective cancellation, this wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
claim. 
I say that because the stay-at-home order was a directive from the Scottish government 
which had legal force. The lockdown seems to be the main reason the trip was moved. And 
the lockdown had been imposed as a direct result of the Covid-19 pandemic. As such then, I 
think the exclusions Ive referred to above would apply to the circumstances of this claim in 
any event.
Overall, I sympathise with Mr R and Mrs Gs position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket. But I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct EA to 
pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman