DRN-3950255
The complaint
Mr H complains about AWP P&C SA (AWP) declining a claim under his home emergency 
policy.
References to AWP include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
This decision covers the decline of Mr Hs claim under his home emergency policy, with 
AWP being the insurer of the policy. It doesnt cover his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr H contacted AWPs home emergency assistance service following 
damage caused to his property in bad weather, with rainwater was leaking through part of 
the roof. Mr H said a roofer working on other damaged properties in the area had said he 
could repair the damaged roof the same day. But Mr H was told not to engage the roofer but 
wait for an AWP contractor (although that could take up to 48 hours). Mr H said a repair was 
needed quickly to prevent further damage from water getting into the property. 
When the contractor (D) attended the property, Mr H said they advised they didnt have the 
materials needed to make either temporary or permanent repair, rather they were to inspect 
the damage and report back to AWP. In their report, D concluded there were missing and 
damaged tiles, but due to age (and the roof unsafe to work on). D recommended a new roof. 
Mr H contacted AWP but was told the cost of repair wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Given AWPs decline and the need to avoid water continuing to enter the property, Mr H 
engaged a contractor to make repairs (at a cost of £675). But AWP declined to cover the 
cost of the repairs.
Unhappy at AWPs position, Mr H complained. AWP didnt uphold the complaint in respect of 
their decline of Mr Hs claim. In their final response, they referred to the terms of the home 
emergency policy, specifically the definition of an emergency and an emergency repair. The 
latter definition referred to work (a temporary or permanent repair) carried out by one of their 
contractors. The definition also stated that if a permanent repair wasnt possible (or the cost 
would be significantly more than the cost of temporary repair) AWP would make a temporary 
repair and the policyholder would need to make a permanent repair at their own cost. So, 
they confirmed their decision not to accept Mr Hs claim (for the cost of repairs) as they 
hadnt authorised this.
But AWP acknowledged the level of service theyd provided wasnt to the standard Mr H 
should have received, specifically in keeping him updated on what was happening with his 
claim. In recognition of this, AWP offered £100 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr H then complained to this service, unhappy at being out of pocket by paying for the 
repairs. He wanted AWP to reimburse him for the cost. The incident had also been stressful 
for him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AWP acted fairly in declining 
Mr Hs claim in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. As a claim under the 
home emergency policy, it wasnt a storm damage claim, so AWP didnt have to 
show the damage was caused by a storm (or that a wear and tear exclusion 
applied). The investigator thought AWP sent its contractor within a reasonable time, 
but there was poor communication during the claim. Reflecting this, the investigator 
thought AWPs offer of £100 compensation was fair. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He said hed been told by D the damage was caused by the 
storm (and didnt indicate there was an issue of wear and tear). He thought the 
evidence (from local reports) indicated storm conditions. He also said AWP had 
changed its position on why the claim had been declined, having previously declined 
the claim due to costs exceeding the policy limit and then the repair costs not having 
been authorised by AWP.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AWP has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The key issue in Mr Hs complaint is whether AWP acted fairly in declining his claim for the 
damage to his roof. Mr H says the damage was caused by the storm, so AWP should accept 
his claim (and reimburse him for the repairs hes paid for). AWP (in their final response) say 
that under the policy terms and conditions, they would make a temporary repair and Mr H 
would need to make a permanent repair at his own cost. They also say they wouldnt cover 
the cost of repairs incurred by Mr H as they hadnt authorised them.
In considering both views, Ive also thought about Mr Hs point that AWP have changed their 
position on the decline of his claim. In their report, D concluded the missing and damaged 
tiles were due to age. Implying the storm conditions werent the underlying cause of the 
damage  the storm conditions merely highlighted the age (the condition) of the tiles. The 
reference to unsafe to work on in Ds report would also be consistent with what Mr H has 
said about D not carrying out either a temporary or permanent repair (although Mr H, when 
making his complaint to this service said this was because D didnt have the materials 
available when he inspected the roof).
Looking at the policy terms and conditions, there are specific references to both age (wear 
and tear) and the circumstances where a policyholder engages someone to make repairs 
(and then seeks reimbursement). On the first aspect, under the heading About this policy 
theres the following statement:
This policy does not cover normal day-to-day property maintenance such as 
attention to items which tend to gradually wear over a period of time or need periodic 
attention
Theres also a General Condition section of the policy which includes the following 
statement:
5 We shall be entitled to:
Refuse to help if your home or services have not been maintained in a safe or 
serviceable condition.
Under the General exclusions section theres the following exclusions:2 Costs we have not authorised. Always phone us first.:
8 Claims arising as a result of wear and tear
Looking at these conditions and exclusions in the context of Ds report, the reference to safe 
or serviceable condition would be consistent with D;s comment about unsafe to work on. 
And claims (for repair to damage) wouldnt be accepted in the repair was deemed to arise 
from wear and tear (not  as in this case  to the storm conditions).
 
But as wear and tear is an exclusion under the policy, then the onus is on AWP to show that 
they acted fairly and reasonably in applying the exclusions. Considering the exclusion for 
wear and tear, Ive considered the evidence available. This includes Ds report following their 
inspection. But Ive also looked at photographs of the roof, which do indicate areas of poor 
condition (the mortar supporting the ridge tiles and a chimney stack). And Ds view about the 
roof being unsafe to work on is his professional view, consistent with the condition of the 
roof. So, I think AWP have done enough to apply the exclusion.
Ive also considered the point made by AWP in their final response about the policy covering 
a temporary repair. AWP refer to the definition of an Emergency repair(s). The full definition 
set out in the policy is:
Work carried out by our tradesperson to resolve the immediate emergency. This 
may involve a temporary repair or permanent repair. When we make a repair we will 
leave your home safe and habitable, but we will not be responsible for reinstating it to 
its original condition.
We will make a permanent repair if this can be carried out during the same visit and 
at a similar cost to the temporary repair. If a permanent repair is not possible or the 
cost difference is significant, we will make a temporary repair and you will need to 
replace this with a permanent repair at your own cost within 30 days.
This provides AWP with a decision to make about whether to carry out a temporary or 
permanent repair. AWLs final response states a temporary repair was made (by D). 
However, Mr H says no repair was carried out. Ds report mentions some work to remove 
mortar that had come away from ridge tiles, but no other repair work. That would be 
consistent with Ds comment about being unsafe to work on and reference to the age of the 
tiles. It would also be consistent with application of the above exclusions for a home not 
being in a safe condition and for wear and tear.
The exclusion for Costs we have not authorised would also be relevant because Ive not 
seen any evidence Mr H asked AWP to agree the costs before they were incurred, nor that 
AWP authorised them.
 
Ive also considered the issue of whether there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident and whether they were the cause of the damage. Mr h maintains both were the 
case, so AWP should accept his claim. However, I dont think is relevant in the context of Mr 
H making his claim under his home emergency policy. The policy is designed to provide 
assistance where there is a home emergency (as defined in the policy). The issue of what 
caused the emergency is only relevant where (as AWP did) they apply an exclusion (or other 
policy term) to decline a claim (or decline to provide assistance). Which Ive concluded 
above they have done fairly and reasonably. 
Whether there was a storm, and whether a storm was the cause of damage (or the main or 
dominant cause), is relevant where a claim is made under a home insurance policy  not a 
home emergency policy. It would have been open to Mr H to make a claim under his home insurance policy for the damage caused by the bad weather. That would have been 
assessed against the terms and conditions of any such home insurance policy (which might 
include a definition of a storm). 
But Mr Hs claim was under his home emergency policy (and AWPs decline of his claim was 
under the policy). And his complaint to this service was about AWPs decline of his claim 
under his home emergency policy. It wasnt against the insurer under his home insurance 
policy. So, Ive not considered this point further.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded AWP acted in line with the policy terms and 
conditions (for the reasons set out above) to decline the claim.
However, I agree that Mr H has suffered from a lack of communication from AWP, as they 
have recognised by offering £100 in compensation. Taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, I think AWPs offer of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. My 
understanding is that AWP have not yet paid the £100 compensation. As this is a final 
decision on Mr Hs complaint to this service, AWP should pay the compensation offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman