DRN-3931419
The complaint
Mrs P acquired household fixtures in August 2019, partly by means of fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc. She complains that the installed fixtures were not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and that attempts by the supplier to correct faults in 
the fixtures were unsuccessful. In these circumstances, she found it necessary to pay 
alternative tradespeople to undertake remedial works. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 December 2022, as follows.
Background
Mrs P paid a deposit to the supplier amounting to 20% of the household fixtures price. The 
remaining 80% was covered by her loan agreement. Monthly repayments under this 
agreement were deferred, to start 12 months after the date on which the goods were 
supplied and installed, with 120 monthly payments thereafter. Also, if the loan was repaid in 
full by the deferred first payment date, Mrs P would incur no interest charges.  
The fixtures were installed in September 2019, and Hitachi activated its agreement with Mrs 
P (which meant the deferral period would end in September 2020). In October 2019, Mrs P 
raised her concerns about the installed fixtures with Hitachi. 
The supplier completed remedial works in May 2020. Hitachi extended the deferral period to 
May 2021. 
It also offered Mrs P a goodwill gesture of £400 for her negative experience of the 
installation process. Mrs P declined this offer.
In July 2020, Mrs P (via her solicitors) asked Hitachi to agree that the fixtures should be 
rejected. The solicitors letter also noted that Mrs Ps 20% deposit had been refunded to her 
bank account in February 2020. Hitachi did not agree to her rejection request. 
In October 2020, Hitachi received a formal complaint from Mrs P. In response, it 
commissioned (via the Furniture Ombudsman) an independent inspection of the installed 
fixtures, which took place in December 2020. 
The inspector did not recommend rejection of the installed fixtures. He reported in January 
2021 as follows:
The supplier had installed excellent products, compromised by very poor working 
practices
The greatest concern related to the integrity of the installed wall coverings  their lack 
of adhesion would eventually lead to complete failure of the installation
The wall covering issue required immediate attention  partial or complete removal 
and re-installation to professional standards was recommended
Addressing the other issues was not so urgent, but these faults should not be present 
in a professional installation 
In March 2021, Hitachi sent to Mrs P (via her solicitors) its final response to her complaint, 
saying:
Following the inspection, the supplier offered either to return and rectify the reported 
faults, or to pay a third party to complete the works as required in the report
These offers were rejected by Mrs P, because she was seeking a full refund  she 
wanted the whole installation taken out and refitted
It rejected Mrs Ps proposal, because it felt the inspection reports conclusions did not 
indicate a full refund
Instead, it offered 
oeither the supplier should be allowed to complete the works as required by 
the report (as previously offered)
oor Mrs P should accept £800 for her to pay a third party to complete these 
works
In addition, it offered  
oboth a goodwill gesture from the supplier of £500
oand an increased goodwill gesture from it of £500
It reminded Mrs P that, if she wished to settle her agreement account interest free, 
she needed to do so by the deferral date in May 2021 
The balance of Mrs Ps agreement account in March 2021 was just under £7,000. This 
excluded interest charges of just under £11,000, which would be applied at the end of the 
deferral period.
Mrs P replied (via her solicitors) to Hitachis final response, saying that she had obtained 
various quotes from tradespeople to complete the required works (copies of which she 
provided to it)  and, as a result, she was only prepared to pay Hitachi £2,000 of the £7,000 
balance in her agreement account.
 
The supplier criticised these quotes, particularly in terms of both the extent of work and the 
change of wall covering being proposed. It pointed out that it had offered to provide 
replacement wall covering and other materials, and it saw no reason to pay for different 
materials. It argued that a payment of £800 was sufficient to cover Mrs Ps necessary costs, 
using its replacement materials, and it was not prepared to pay more. 
Hitachi commenced taking monthly repayments from Mrs Ps bank account in May 2021. 
She contacted it immediately, saying that she had been assured that this would not happen 
until her complaint had been resolved. 
Mrs P also referred her complaint to us. She told us that she had intended to repay the loan 
as soon as the installation work was complete.Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part:
Hitachi had not been wrong to apply interest and commence monthly repayments in 
May 2021 
But it should reimburse the expenses Mrs P incurred, to achieve installed fixtures of 
satisfactory quality
Deferral period, interest charges and monthly repayments
Our investigator thought that Mrs P did not want to settle her agreement account before 
achieving a satisfactory outcome to her complaint  and this was why the deferred period 
ended without the account being settled. Although he felt that he understood Mrs Ps stance, 
he did not think that the interest payable was a result of the installed household fixtures 
unsatisfactory quality.  
Achieving installed household fixtures of satisfactory quality
As noted earlier, Mrs P decided in March/April 2021 to invite quotations from several 
tradespeople, to address the issues identified in the January 2021 independent inspection 
report. She subsequently accepted three estimates: for joinery work, stripping/refitting and 
electrical work. 
Mrs P received receipted invoices for electrics (£156) in February 2022, and for joinery work 
(£2,438.77) and stripping/refitting (£600) in March 2022. This meant that her total expenses 
were £3,194.77. But she had already received in February 2020 a refund (£1,740) of her 
deposit, which reduced her net expenses to £1,454.17. 
Our investigator noted the suppliers view that £800 should be sufficient to pay for the 
required works. But he thought it was unlikely that this amount would have covered her 
costs. He considered whether or not Mrs P had mitigated her losses, and he concluded that 
her actions were reasonable. 
Our investigator also noted that, at the time Mrs P incurred these expenses, she could not 
have been sure of recovering them. So, he doubted that she would have willingly paid out 
more than was necessary.
Mrs P sold her home and moved away in April 2022.
Our investigator recommended that Hitachi should:
Reimburse expenses of £1,454.17 incurred by Mrs P, plus interest at 8% simple per 
annum from the date of receipted payment to the date of settlement
Pay interest on Mrs Ps deposit (£1,740) at 8% simple per annum from the date she 
made this payment to the date of refund
Hitachi disagreed with our investigator, saying that the costs incurred by Mrs P were 
unreasonable, and so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman. 
My provisional findings
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Hitachi has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. This means a reasonable person would have regarded 
the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant circumstances. But there are limits 
to these responsibilities. In particular, matters complained about must be present or 
developing at the point of supply. 
Deferral period, interest charges and monthly repayments
As noted earlier, Mrs Ps loan agreement said that monthly repayments under this 
agreement were deferred, to start 12 months after the date on which the goods were 
supplied and installed. Mrs P complained that the household fixtures installed in September 
2019 were not of satisfactory quality. 
In May 2020, Hitachi implicitly acknowledged that the goods were not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied and installed, by extending the agreements original deferred period (ending 
in September 2020) to a date in May 2021. It made this change because it thought that the 
supplier had successfully completed works in May 2020, intended to correct earlier 
installation faults.
Hitachi implicitly acknowledged as well that for goods to be correctly supplied and installed, 
they also had to be of satisfactory quality. The independent inspection report commissioned 
by Hitachi did not challenge the inherent quality of Mrs Ps fixtures. But it did confirm that 
these fixtures had not been properly installed to professional standards  which meant the 
resulting installation was not of satisfactory quality in December 2020 (when the inspection 
took place). 
Mrs P implicitly indicated, when in early 2022 she paid the three invoices for remedial works 
that she had commissioned, that the installed fixtures had achieved satisfactory quality, in 
her view. So, my view is:
The goods were not correctly supplied and installed until these remedial works were 
completed
The deferral period should begin on the date that these remedial works finished 
The chronologically last of Mrs Ps three invoices was raised (and paid) on 09/03/22, 
and this should be taken as the works completion date
Based on the above, Mrs Ps agreement account should be reworked. In particular:
Monthly payments taken before the new deferral period end date should be refunded 
(plus interest)
The date on which interest charges are applied should be adjusted to reflect this 
change
Achieving installed household fixtures of satisfactory quality
Mrs P spent just under £3,200 on the above remedial works. The supplier argued that Mrs P 
should have used wall covering and other materials provided by it, and that £800 should 
have been sufficient to cover the costs of these works. 
Mrs P raised her concerns with Hitachi in October 2019.  Between then and May 2020, the 
supplier undertook remedial works, at the end of which it appears to have considered the 
installation to be of satisfactory quality. Mrs P disagreed, and the independent inspection 
confirmed that the installation was still not of satisfactory quality.When the inspection report was received, Hitachi told the supplier that current legislation 
permitted it one opportunity to correct faults, before other remedies became available to Mrs 
P  and the supplier had already been given that opportunity. The supplier responded saying 
the faults identified in the report were different from those it had previously repaired. It 
argued that it should be allowed to repair the newly identified faults. 
I think that, if Hitachi had agreed with the suppliers interpretation of current legislation, its 
stance would have been unfair and unreasonable. It mostly did not do so  instead, it offered 
Mrs P a choice of either allowing the supplier to undertake further repairs, or her being paid 
£800 to commission others to do so. Mrs Ps experience of the suppliers installation work 
was very negative, and she rejected its further involvement. She also rejected the alternative 
offer on financial grounds. 
 
The £800 offered appears to have been on the assumption that some materials were to be 
provided by the supplier. I think it might have been acceptable to offer these materials from 
the supplier. But apparently making this further involvement of the supplier effectively a 
financial condition was not acceptable, in my view. 
I think that Mrs P was entitled to reject Hitachis alternative offer, and instead to find another 
way fairly and reasonably to bring her installed fixtures up to satisfactory quality, based on 
the independent inspectors conclusions. 
I have carefully examined the quotes Mrs P obtained, and the invoices from those 
tradespeople she commissioned. I cannot be certain  but, on the balance of probabilities, I 
share our investigators view that she acted prudently, and that she mitigated her losses. 
This means that I am unable to find a reason why the expenses Mrs P incurred should not 
be reimbursed by Hitachi, and that I agree with the financial settlement recommendations 
made by our investigator.
My provisional decision and responses
For the reasons explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Mrs P or Hitachi, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint.
My provisional settlement recommendations are that Hitachi should:
Change the date on which the deferral period in its agreement with Mrs P 
commences to 09/03/22
Rework Mrs Ps agreement account to reflect the above change, and in particular  
orefund monthly repayments taken before the changed deferral period end 
date, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the dates that payments 
were taken to the date of settlement
oadjust the application of interest charges to reflect the changed deferral 
period 
Reimburse expenses of £1,454.17 incurred by Mrs P, plus interest at 8% simple per 
annum from 09/03/22 to the date of settlement
Pay interest on Mrs Ps deposit (£1,740) at 8% simple per annum from the date she 
made this payment to the date of refundMrs P did not respond to my provisional decision. The supplier responded on behalf of 
Hitachi:
The supplier felt that on every occasion it had replaced, under the terms and 
conditions of the guarantee, any faulty goods 
It had challenged earlier quotes obtained by Mrs P on the basis that the independent 
report would be adhered to by all parties, for it to replace the wall coverings
It had also challenged these earlier quotes as excessively expensive
It said everybodys understanding had been that it would pay for the independent 
report, and that it would do any work identified by the inspector as necessary to 
bring the installation up to an acceptable standard  it had not agreed that Mrs P 
would undertake this work with new contractors
But, when Mrs P refused to allow it to do this work, a fair and practical alternative 
way forward had been offered  the supplier would pay Mrs P installation costs of 
£800 and, as a gesture of goodwill, it would pay her a further £500, in order to settle 
her complaint
The supplier suggested that the joinery tradesperson was not qualified or competent 
to complete to a satisfactory standard the work commissioned by Mrs P
It had asked as well for evidence that the work had been completed, but this had not 
been provided
Hitachi responded to say that it had nothing to add to the suppliers response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Deferral period, interest charges and monthly repayments
I note that Hitachi did not comment on my provisional findings and decision, or on the 
settlement recommendations I added to those made by our investigator:  
Change the date on which the deferral period in its agreement with Mrs P 
commences to 09/03/22
Rework Mrs Ps agreement account to reflect the above change, and in particular  
orefund monthly repayments taken before the changed deferral period end 
date, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the dates that payments 
were taken to the date of settlement
oadjust the application of interest charges to reflect the changed deferral 
period 
Achieving installed household fixtures of satisfactory quality
The supplier responded on behalf of Hitachi. It said that, on every occasion, it had replaced 
faulty goods. Although this assertion must be considered alongside the January 2021 
independent inspection report  which did not criticise the quality of products installed, but 
which did strongly criticise the way these products had been installed. I think it would not be 
appropriate to disregard the reports conclusions.The supplier also said it paid for the inspection, and there was an understanding that it would 
undertake any work arising from the inspection report. But my understanding is that Hitachi 
told the supplier that current legislation permitted it one opportunity to correct faults, and it 
had already been given this opportunity. And I agree with Hitachis interpretation of current 
legislation.
The supplier said as well that, when Mrs P refused to allow it to undertake further work, it 
offered a fair and reasonable alternative way forward. I accept that an alternative way 
forward was offered, which may or may not have been fair and reasonable. Mrs P was not 
obliged to accept this alternative, and she chose not to do so.
I note that the supplier criticised earlier quotes obtained by Mrs P. But, because she did not 
take up these quotes, I do not consider them to have any further relevance. 
I additionally note that the supplier criticised the competence of the joinery tradesperson 
commissioned by Mrs P. The supplier added that it had asked for evidence that this work 
had been completed, which had not been provided. 
Certainty is not possible about whether or not this work was completed  and, if it was 
completed, whether or not this was to a satisfactory standard. But Mrs P paid in March 2022 
the invoices submitted by the joinery tradesperson and the two other tradespeople, from 
which I infer that she was at last satisfied with the installation. 
We are unable to test my assumption that the goods had been satisfactorily installed, 
because Mrs P sold her home and moved away in April 2022. But, taking account of Mrs Ps 
actions in paying the tradespeoples invoices and on the balance of probabilities, I find that a 
satisfactory outcome was achieved.
My conclusion
In the absence of further information or evidence, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings or decision.
Putting things right
Similarly, I see no reason to change my provisional settlement recommendations.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc:
1. To change the date on which the deferral period in its agreement with Mrs P 
commences to 09/03/22
2. To rework Mrs Ps agreement account to reflect the above change, and in particular  
a. to refund monthly repayments taken before the changed deferral period end 
date, plus interest at 8% simple per annum from the dates that payments 
were taken to the date of settlement
b. to adjust the application of interest charges to reflect the changed deferral 
period 
3. To reimburse expenses of £1,454.17 incurred by Mrs P, plus interest at 8% simple 
per annum from 09/03/22 to the date of settlement
4. To pay interest on Mrs Ps deposit (£1,740) at 8% simple per annum from the date 
she made this payment to the date of refundIf Hitachi considers that it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Mrs P a tax deduction certificate when it pays her. She can then try to reclaim this tax, 
if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman