DRN-2093782
The complaint
Mr F complains that the way in which National Westminster Bank Plc handled an account 
switch has left him with a default marker on his credit file and has caused him several years 
of stress and inconvenience, as well as financial loss.
What happened
In 2015 Mr F decided to switch his current account from his then provider to NatWest. He 
completed an application to use the current account switching service. He expected his 
account to be moved without any trouble, but after the switch he was contacted by his 
previous bank which claimed that he still owed it money. 
Mr F says that he was led to believe by NatWest that an account switch couldnt take place if 
there was an overdrawn balance on the original account. 
NatWest looked into the switch application. It said that Mr F had applied for a partial switch, 
meaning that NatWest was instructed not to repay any negative balance. It didnt consider 
that it had any responsibility for the money which Mr Fs previous bank was seeking from 
him. 
Mr F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
agreed however that NatWest had carried out the account switch in line with Mr Fs 
instructions and had treated him fairly. Mr F didnt accept the investigators opinion and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The current account switching service is designed to ensure that customers can switch 
accounts quickly and easily and that the banks involved take responsibility for the transfer of, 
for example, direct debit instructions. The customer applies to open an account with the new 
provider, which then contacts the old provider to effect the switch. It isnt however the case 
that the service isnt available where theres an overdraft on the original account; the new 
provider must however be willing to take the overdraft on. 
In addition, the customer has the option to instruct the new provider to pay any negative 
balance on the first account. In this case, the account switch application indicates that Mr F 
chose the option Dont pay any negative balance. The note beneath that option explained 
that, if there were insufficient funds in the new account to repay the negative balance at the 
time of the switch, the balance would not be repaid and it would be the responsibility of the 
customer to arrange repayment with the original bank. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Nat West didnt agree to repay any money that Mr F 
might have owed to the other bank, either from the transferred account or otherwise. 
Mr F disputed that he owed any money to his previous bank, mainly it seems because he 
was under the impression that it wasnt possible to transfer an account which had an 
overdrawn balance. Ive explained though that that was a mistaken belief, and I make no 
further comment on that, other than to say that this service considered but didnt uphold his 
complaint about that bank. 
Ive considered therefore whether NatWest led Mr F to believe that he would have no debt to 
settle with his previous bank. I note first of all that the account switching form made it clear 
that was a possibility. But in any event I dont believe NatWest would have told him that. It 
wouldnt have known enough about his existing account or the activity on it; for example, it 
wouldnt have had any information about pending card transactions, unpaid cheques or 
disputed payments. It simply couldnt have guaranteed that Mr F didnt owe money to his 
former account provider. NatWest says that the debt arose because of card transactions 
applied after the switch. 
Even if I were to take a different view on that point and conclude that NatWest did assure Mr 
F that any debts would be transferred to his new account, I still wouldnt conclude that it was 
obliged to settle them. Mr F knew very soon after the switch that his previous bank was 
seeking payment (of around £300). Whether or not that claim was valid was entirely a matter 
between him and the bank seeking payment. It was nothing to do with NatWest, and Mr Fs 
arguments havent persuaded me that NatWest should take responsibility for any claim his 
previous bank had against him or for the consequences of any dispute between them. 
Finally, Mr F has commented that NatWest encouraged him to refer his complaint to this 
service, and that this indicated it thought it was in the wrong. It is however a regulatory 
requirement that banks tell customers that they can approach this service  doing so is not 
therefore an admission of wrongdoing.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman