DRN-3440756
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains about delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC in renewing its 
secured business loan. S says its unfair for Barclays to apply interest to the debt because it 
was Barclays that cancelled the standing order for monthly payments when the loan term 
expired in late 2018. S is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr B says S is 
prepared to repay the debt, but only if a repayment plan factors in removal of interest since 
the loan term expired, and their worry, time and legal fees.
What happened
S took out a five-year secured loan in late 2013. The repayment profile was over 10 years, 
meaning there was a balance to repay in late 2013. Mr B says:
Barclays should have contacted him at the end of the loan term about reviewing and 
renewing the loan
Barclays should have kept the standing order in place for a further 120 months after the 
loan term expired. It didnt do this and so no payments were made
he contacted Barclays but it failed to respond substantively for two years. It didnt tell him 
what he needed to do to renew the loan 
Barclays continued to apply interest to the debt during this time, totalling about £26,000 
by late 2020. Mr B says its unreasonable to expect S to pay this
he isnt happy with the way Barclays dealt with Ss complaint.
Our investigator said Barclays hadnt caused unreasonable delays. She said S could have 
made payments by bank transfer. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said Barclays had offered S a 10-year loan in early 2021, despite 
having previously said it didnt offer 10-year loans and without first discussing this with him. 
He said he couldnt agree to the loan as he was still in discussions with Barclays about the 
unpaid interest and hed like the debt repaid in less than 10 years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised concerns that there were conversations that we dont have evidence of. Thats 
possible given that some discussions were face to face, and discussions about the debt 
have been on-going over several years since the loan expired. The parties dispute some 
matters, such as whether a 10-year loan term was discussed before early 2021 and whether 
Barclays told Mr B he could make payments by bank transfer. Having read the comments 
and evidence from both parties Im satisfied I can reach a fair decision based on the 
available evidence. I should also explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
The loan taken out in 2013
I think its clear from the loan offer and terms that the loan had a five-year term. Its also 
clear that the repayment profile was calculated over 10 years, and that there would be a 
balance to repay at the end of the five-year term. The loan terms and conditions say the 
borrower must repay the loan, with all accrued interest and other amounts, in full on the final 
repayment date. S (and its director, Mr B) agreed to this when S took out the loan.
The loan term ended in late 2018. And so, under the loan terms and conditions, the balance 
should have been repaid in late 2018. Theres no obligation on Barclays, in the loan terms 
and conditions, to renew or extend the loan.
A standing order was set up in 2013 to make loan repayments. This ended in late 2018, 
consistent with the loan term expiring. At this point the balance should have been repaid. I 
cant see anything in the loan terms and conditions to suggest that Barclays was under any 
obligation to set up a new standing order after the loan term had expired. 
Borrowers are responsible for managing their accounts. S is responsible for making 
payments required by the loan terms and conditions. This includes payment of the balance 
due in late 2018. 
I havent seen any evidence of an agreement between Barclays and S to vary these terms 
so as to extend the term of the loan, require Barclays to offer an extension or new five-year 
loan, waive interest or to make Barclays responsible for arranging capital or interest 
payments after the term ended. 
Should Barclays waive or refund interest?
Mr B says Barclays should waive interest applied to the debt since the loan term expired. 
This is because he says Barclays is responsible for delays in putting a new loan in place and 
for payments not being made in the meantime. These are matters disputed by Barclays. 
However, even if Barclays was responsible for the delays (and Im not making a finding 
about this here), I dont think this would make it fair and reasonable to require it to waive or 
refund interest. This is because:
The loan terms and conditions say this is an interest-bearing loan. 
The loan balance was due in late 2018. S didnt repay the debt when it was due. S has 
had the benefit of and use of the money since then. 
If Mr B could have arranged for payments by bank transfer. Its reasonable to assume 
that Mr B and Ss other officers make payments in the course of Ss business. They 
didnt need to wait for Barclays to set up a standing order or to invite S to make 
payments or to explain ways to do so. But if they werent sure, they could have asked.
Barclays offered a 10-year loan to S in early 2021, which S didnt accept. I dont think I 
can reasonably find that S would have accepted a 10-year loan if it had been offered 
sooner.
If, as Mr B says, he wants to repay the debt sooner than the 10-year term proposed by 
Barclays, he could have arranged for payments to reduce the balance. This would also have reduced the amount of interest being applied.
If a new loan had been agreed sooner, Barclays would have applied interest to it.
I cant see that it would be fair to require Barclays, in effect, to provide an interest free loan 
to S in these circumstances. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
require Barclays to refund interest or charges applied since the loan term expired in 2018.
Did Barclays treat S unfairly?
I need to take into account that this was a business loan. Barclays was entitled to expect Ss 
directors to ensure they understood the loan terms, or take advice or ask Barclays if there 
was anything they werent sure about. Barclays was entitled to expect Ss directors to 
manage the loan account, which includes planning for how the debt will be repaid when due. 
Mr B provided emails from an ex-employee of Barclays who had been involved in setting up 
the loan in 2013. The emails said the spirit of loans such as the one S took out was that the 
loan would be renewed after five years, provided there was no significant deterioration in Ss 
finances or regulatory change. The ex-employee commented on how the matter would have 
been dealt back in our time at the Bank and said Barclays had treated S unfairly. 
Presumably, the ex-employee based this view on the information provided to him by Mr B. 
Hes no longer employed at Barclays and it seems unlikely hes fully aware of Barclays 
current lending policy and process, or what actions had been taken within Barclays in 
relation to Ss loan. 
Mr Bs complaint relates largely to what he says he expected from Barclays. That is, that 
Barclays would: contact him about renewing the loan; offer another five-year loan; set up a 
new standing order for payments to the loan account after the loan term expired and/or 
waive interest while a new loan was agreed and put in place.
As Ive said, theres nothing in the loan terms and conditions that require Barclays to do any 
of this. And theres no evidence that Barclays agreed to do this when the loan was taken out. 
So Ive considered whether these are things Barclays ought fairly to have done, and whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to do so now. 
Barclays was in contact with S in early 2019. It would perhaps have been better client 
service to have contacted S before the loan term expired. But if Ss directors knew S 
wouldnt be able to repay the debt when it was due they could have contacted Barclays 
about extending the term or applying for a new loan. They could have looked into refinancing 
with another lender.
Barclays considered whether it could offer a new a five-year loan. By mid-2019 it had 
decided it couldnt, as S didnt meet its lending criteria. Barclays said S couldnt meet the 
minimum payments this would require, and it wasnt comfortable with the financial 
information S had provided. Barclays is entitled to make a commercial decision about the 
terms on which it lends to customers. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays 
to offer a loan on terms which dont meet its lending criteria, or say it was unfair not to do so. 
Barclays then considered a 10-year loan. While this wasnt what Mr B wanted, Barclays says 
S could make overpayments to reduce the term if funds were available. Barclays says it 
needed updated accounts from S to progress this. It says it chased for the information in 
early 2020. Matters were delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, when S opted for other forms 
of support.  
Barclays offered a 10-year loan in early 2021, which S declined. From what Mr B said, this was because the balance included the unpaid interest and the term was longer than they 
wanted. It was for Ss directors to decide whether to accept the loan on the terms offered. 
The debt (the loan balance which became due in late 2018 plus accrued and unpaid interest) 
remains outstanding. 
Barclays didnt apply default charges, or treat the loan as in default. Mr B says this is 
evidence that Barclays considers itself to be at fault for the delays. I dont agree. I dont think 
its unfair for Barclays to hold off treating the loan as in default or taking recovery action 
while it was in discussions with Ss directors about how the debt would be repaid. Barclays 
has sent letters to S (including a formal demand) which suggests it will now start recovery 
action. 
Barclays says it expects the loan  including the accrued interest  to be repaid in full. The 
loan is secured by a charge on property and a personal guarantee. S is taking legal advice 
and so its directors will be aware that Barclays is entitled to take steps to enforce its security, 
if necessary, to recover the loan. 
Mr B is also unhappy with the way Barclays dealt with Ss complaint. As complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, it isnt something we can look into. I could look into how Barclays 
dealt with Ss complaint if it delayed the underlying problem being sorted out, but I dont think 
that was the case here. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays caused delays, made errors or treated S unfairly such as to 
make it fair and reasonable to require it to waive or refund interest or pay compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman