DRN-3848320
The complaint
Ms W (the Administrator of the late Mr Ps estate) has complained to St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP) about advice given to Mr P regarding his personal pension 
and several investment bonds he held. Ms W says the advice fell below the standard Mr P 
was entitled to and as such, his estate has had to pay additional tax which could have been 
avoided. 
What happened
Prior to his death in 2020, Mr P had been a client of The Platt Partnership Ltd  an appointed 
representative of SJP  for many years. As the principal firm, SJP has overall responsibility 
for the advice provided to Mr P. So for ease, Ill refer to all actions as having been carried out 
by SJP. 
Mr P held a personal pension with a provider Ill refer to as Firm R. He also held several 
investment bonds, some of which had been held jointly with his wife. Mr Ps wife passed 
away in 2014.
The crux of Ms Ws complaint to SJP related to a trust fund that SJP advised Mr P to 
establish to mitigate any future Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability. But despite steps being taken 
to set this up, including Ms Ws daughter completing trustee forms, the trust wasnt 
established. Ms W says Mr P wasnt aware this hadnt happened. 
Ms W also thinks SJP should have advised Mr P of the tax implications if he didnt move his 
Firm R personal pension to drawdown before the age of 75. As a result of the personal 
pension not being moved before Mr Ps 75th birthday, his estate has had to pay additional 
income tax that otherwise wouldnt have been payable. In addition, Ms W also complained 
that Mr P wasnt given suitable advice after his wife passed away regarding the bonds they 
had held jointly. However, Ms W is no longer pursuing this particular aspect of the complaint. 
SJP considered Ms Ws complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Ms W didnt 
agree with the outcome SJP had reached so she referred the matter to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters but didnt think SJP needed to take any action. In 
summary, the investigator said that: 
In terms of Firm Rs pension not being transferred, the SJP plan had higher charges 
and offered less funds than Mr Ps existing arrangement. Mr P wouldve also incurred 
an exit charge on transferring away from Firm R. And SJP had also said it generally 
wouldnt discuss possible tax implications for beneficiaries because Mr P didnt have 
any children. 
SJP provided a restricted advice service to Mr P in regard to his Firm R pension. The 
investigator had checked the key facts document which wouldve been provided to 
Mr P and he was satisfied that the advice restrictions were made clear to him. 
Therefore, the investigator didnt think that SJP had a responsibility, or authority, to 
provide comprehensive advice about Mr Ps Firm R pension, as it wasnt an 
Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) to Mr P. To carry out an advice process about 
Mr Ps Firm R Pension, SJP wouldve needed Mr P to complete letters of authority to 
obtain information about his Firm R plan, so that it could discuss the merits of 
transferring in subsequent review meetings.
As SJP hadnt provided clear evidence and notes of the process it carried out in 
2010, 2016 and 2020, the investigator had considered the likelihood of its testimony 
that Mr P didnt want to pursue any advice about it. On balance, the investigator 
thought SJPs testimony was reasonable, as he couldnt see a clear and immediate 
reason why Mr P would have wanted to avoid tax implications when he would have 
had to pay an additional charge.
The investigator said that after the age of 75 Mr P would not have lost access to tax 
free cash due to his current lifetime allowance stance. SJP had said that Mr P was 
very happy with the life he had and didnt appear to be driven by money or returns, 
which is why he was happy to split funds between cash, SJP and Firm R.
Based on this information, the investigator couldnt see a clear reason that Mr P 
would have wanted to transfer, as he didnt have any direct dependents. Moreover, 
SJP werent obliged to carry out this advice. If Mr P was happy with the arrangement 
he had, the investigator said that he wouldnt have expected an advisor with 
restricted advice to recommend Mr P take action to avoid inheritance tax, if he wasnt 
looking for it, particularly if he had no children or surviving spouse. The investigator 
also explained that as tax advice is very specialist, he wouldnt expect to see a 
restricted advisor going in to detail about this, particularly in regard to a pension 
product which they dont have authorisation to provide comprehensive advice about.
Overall, the investigator thought SJP had provided a reasonable explanation as to 
why Mr P didnt transfer his pension, and it wasnt authorised to carry out the advice, 
unless Mr P wanted to pursue it.
In terms of the Trust not being set up the investigator thought that although SJP had 
the necessary paperwork to put arrangements in place, it was likely that Mr P had 
decided not to proceed with the arrangement. 
SJP had said it could understand why Mr P may not have wanted to proceed with 
inheritance tax planning and restricting access to growth on his investments, which is 
what would have happened if he had subsequently reinvested the proceeds into a 
Loan Plan. And although SJP didnt have any clear evidence of the instruction not to 
proceed, as it was confirmed verbally by Mr P, the investigator thought this was most 
likely to have happened.
The investigator thought it would have been clear from Mr Ps statements that the 
agreement hadnt gone through and that his investment bonds had remained in 
place. The investigator accepted that SJP shouldve kept notes and information to 
back up the process that took place. However, based on the information available, 
the investigator thought SJPs testimony was likely accurate.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr Ps family thought a trust was being set up 
and a declaration had been signed. But he felt Mr P wouldve raised the issue 
previously as he wouldve noticed the trust hadnt been set up. Therefore, he thought 
it was highly likely Mr P decided not to go through with the agreement. 
The investigator also explained that he wouldnt have expected SJP to have 
contacted Ms Ws daughter about this directly.
Ms W didnt accept the investigators findings. She provided the following comments:It is beyond dissatisfactory that SJP have no notes of the discussions which it says 
took between SJP and Mr P. These discussions had serious implications in terms of 
the financial planning it was advising Mr P on and was therefore within the scope of 
its retainer.
Ms W doesnt accept that SJP will be able to remember, in some cases over 6 years 
after the event, what was said in telephone conversations of which there is absolutely 
no record. There is no record of the telephone call let alone what was said. It appears 
SJPs version of events is somewhat different to the contemporaneous 
documentation and Ms Ws understanding from discussions with Mr P.
There was no follow up correspondence from SJP when Mr P decided not to follow 
its advice. This, in itself is bad practice. Had there been correspondence or even 
contemporaneous notes of telephone calls/meetings then the position would have 
been clear to both sides. 
There is nothing within the information Ms W has seen which limits the scope of the 
financial advice. Quite the contrary, correspondence indicates SJP were actively 
advising on both the pension and Mr Ps IHT position. The correspondence also talks 
of addressing these issues on a regular basis and yet this does not appear to have 
happened. There is little correspondence after 2016 and it appears Mr P just fell off 
SJPs radar.
In terms of the pension, SJP says it is not an IFA but it had been obtaining 
information from Firm R on the pension in the run up to Mr Ps 75th birthday and in 
fact had some contact with Firm R after his death. SJP was actively advising on Mr 
Ps pension position in both 2010, 2016. And information was provided by Firm R to 
SJP in 2020 but there is no correspondence with Mr P regarding what was or was not 
agreed.
Whilst there may have been an issue around charges, there is no logical explanation 
as to why SJP had not advised Mr P of the implication of not making a change to the 
fund before 75. SJP say Mr P wanted to allow the funds a chance to recover. 
However, the increase in value of the fund would have increased the exit penalty as it 
was based on fund value.
Further SJP could have advised him of the tax implications when advising him about 
the potential to transfer the fund to SJP. The higher management charges, pale into 
insignificance in comparison to the tax charge which even as a restricted advisor it 
would have known would have applied. This is not specialist advice but basic 
financial information which Ms W would have expected any financial advisor to be 
aware of given the implications on a pension of anyone turning 75.
SJP say the reason why the pension was not moved in 2020 was again because of 
the withdrawal charges and yet these were substantially less in 2020 than they were 
in the earlier years. Earlier years the penalty had been circa £14-15k. But by 2020 it 
was 1% of the fund so £2-3k. If SJP are correct that Mr P was concerned about a 
small amount of £2-3k why would he not have been concerned about the potential 
loss of 100k. SJP was also aware that the selected retirement age was 75 as it had 
emails confirming projections could not be given beyond this date. SJP say it was 
only able to discuss the merits/benefits versus the disadvantages of transferring the 
fund to SJP. Why did it not then point out (in writing) the significant disadvantage of 
an income tax charge being payable if Mr P died post age 75 when he was approaching his 75th birthday and it had actively been obtaining information on his 
pension.
The argument that Mr P did not have any spouse or children seems irrelevant. He 
was being advised on IHT planning back to 2016 by SJP and its letter in 2016 
specifically states this is what he wanted to discuss with them. In any event it was not 
IHT but income tax that was payable.
In terms of the IHT planning and trust issue, Ms W agrees that approximately 50% of 
the money that was earmarked to be transferred into the trust was not transferred by 
Mr P.
However, SJP already held 50% of the fund in bonds and it says that it would have 
been obvious to Mr P that the trust had not been established. Again SJP has no 
paperwork to confirm any instructions from Mr P to cancel this despite having 
paperwork to establish it. Again, SJP relies on memory of events that happened over 
6 years ago when there are no notes at all to establish this. Given that the money of 
which SJP had 50% was to be invested in bonds, it is unclear how Mr P would have 
known that the money held by SJP had not gone into the trust. The money was in 
bonds. There is no further paperwork beyond regular statements to say what has 
happened. How would an ordinary elderly client have known from the paperwork that 
the bonds referred to were not for the trust? Again, the point raised that Mr P does 
not have any direct beneficiaries appears irrelevant against a background of 
someone taking IHT planning advice. In Ms Ws view the practice of SJP should be 
considered bad practice, at best and it should be advised by the Financial 
Ombudsman to tidy up its practices, in particular in terms of correspondence to 
clients and notes of meetings/conversations. It should also be actively making clear 
in all correspondence what it is unable to advise upon and that a client needs to seek 
independent financial advice.
SJP also provided further comments. It said:
Mr Ps death was unexpected, and SJP would not have promoted the client take 
funds out of his pension that he did not want or need prior to this. SJPs main 
objective was advising Mr P to ensure his needs were met during his lifetime, 
although there were limitations in providing advice on the Firm R pension as it was 
not one of SJPs products.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the outcome our investigator reached so Im not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms W and SJP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I 
have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I 
think is more likely to, or should, have happened. Ive firstly thought about the service SJP was providing to Mr P and whether he understood 
that it was not an IFA and was instead only able to provide advice in a limited capacity. 
The only documentation I have to base my decision on is the key facts about our services 
and costs. In terms of investment advice, the box for restricted advice is ticked. And both 
the ISA and the trust recommendation letters from 2016 say that this document was 
discussed at the meeting and a copy was left with Mr P. So I can only conclude from this that 
Mr P was aware that SJP werent able to provide advice on products from the whole of the 
market; its advice was restricted to advising on the merits of its own products. 
This could include the merits of transferring another providers plan to SJP. And certainly in 
terms of the IHT advice SJP provided, it was able to consider all assets Mr P had. But in 
providing a recommendation, it was only able to recommend an investment or trust that SJP 
provided. 
I know Ms W has concerns that Mr P fell off SJPs radar after the advice in 2016. But I dont 
agree SJP was required to provide any subsequent or ongoing advice, certainly not in terms 
of the IHT planning, the trust or the pension. I say this because although the 
recommendation letter for the trust says that SJP will provide regular reviews, this was on 
the basis that the recommendation went ahead. However, that wasnt the case with the trust 
as it was never established. And, as set out in the key facts document, the cost of the 
ongoing advice would have been built into the charges on the investments within the trust. 
I think Mr P would have known that SJP wasnt required to provide ongoing advice because 
he wasnt paying a separate fee for this. 
Concerns about the trust not being established
Unfortunately, there is very little evidence documenting what happened after the initial 
discussions with Mr P about the trust. So I have to base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
I think its evident that in 2016 Mr P received advice about reducing his IHT liability. And it 
appears he initially wanted to proceed with SJPs recommendation to establish the trust. The 
recommendation letter dated 30 June 2016 states that Mr P had accepted the advisers 
recommendation for the trust and that the applications had been submitted. And, Ms Ws 
daughter was clearly sent forms to complete as one of the trustees. So, it certainly appears 
the process had started for the trust to be set up. However, SJP says that it had a later 
discussion with Mr P where he said he no longer wanted to go ahead with the arrangement. 
It said this was because one of the investments which been arranged by an IFA had an exit 
penalty. So Mr P decided not to proceed. 
I acknowledge Ms Ws comments that its unlikely SJP would remember a discussion it had 
with Mr P, so many years after it was due to have taken place. And I can confirm that while I 
have taken account of SJPs testimony here, Ive placed more weight on what else 
happened, or didnt happen, in order to determine what I think is the most likely reason for 
the trust not existing. In other words, do I think it likely that Mr P changed his mind about 
proceeding with the trust after initially agreeing to it, or, did something go wrong in the 
process of it being set up and as a result the trust wasnt ever established as it should have 
been. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr P would have received annual statements for his 
investments from 2016 onwards. And its likely he would have realised from these that the 
investments hadnt been transferred over to the trust with SJP. I also agree that its likely 
Mr P wouldve raised the issue previously had it he thought the trust was going ahead. The recommendation letter also confirmed that the applications had been forwarded for 
processing and that Mr P would receive confirmation of the new investments shortly. The 
letter also explained that The Loan Plan involves you, within the trust deed, agreeing to pay 
£10 to the trustees within 28 days of a written demand from them. This establishes the trust. 
Once the trust is established, a further amount is loaned to the trustee. This amount is then 
invested into the loan bond
So, had Mr P thought the arrangement was proceeding, I think he would have queried not 
receiving confirmation of the new investments and not having made a payment for the trust 
to be established. 
I appreciate Ms W says that this doesnt reflect conversions she had with Mr P. She also 
doesnt think it would have been clear to Mr P that the the money already held by SJP in 
bonds had not gone into the trust; she doesnt think this would have been apparent from the 
statements. 
While I accept it may not have been clear from the SJP statements, the recommendation 
was for a number of other investments held with other providers to be transferred. There 
were 5 additional investments held with three separate providers. So I think receiving 
statements on these plans after 2016, would likely have made Mr P aware that the trust had 
not gone ahead. And if that was contrary to what he thought was happening, I think its likely 
he would have raised this with SJP.  
I acknowledge that Ms Ws daughter signed the trustee form. But there is no evidence 
anything further was done to set the trust up. As Ive said above, Mr P didnt pay the £10 
required to do so. And the recommendation letter also explained that The plan involves an 
initial gift of £10 to establish the trust. You then make an interest free loan to the trustees of 
an amount equal to the balance of your investment, and the Trustees invest these monies 
into an investment bond, taking regular withdrawals or capital lump sums to repay the loan to 
you over time. After the initial forms were signed, I think it most likely that Mr P made a 
decision not to proceed with the new arrangement. This may well have been for the reasons 
SJP has cited to do with the exit penalty on one of the investments, added to the fact that at 
that time, Mr P didnt have an IHT liability as he hadnt met the threshold. Whatever the 
reason was, Im satisfied that Mr P decided not to proceed rather than SJP making an error 
and failing to set the arrangement up. 
I know Ms W thinks that this service should punish SJP for failing to adequately document 
the conversations it had with Mr P. However, its not the role of this service to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer - or their 
representative - and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer (or in the case the 
estate), as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt 
occurred. So while I acknowledge the frustration caused by the lack of records, Im satisfied 
from what I have seen that it was Mr Ps decision not to proceed with the trust arrangement. 
Concerns about the pension advice
Mr P asked SJP to look into the possibility of him transferring his Firm R pension to SJP a 
number of times. Initially this was considered in 2010 and the again in 2016. On both 
occasions Mr P decided not to receive full advice on this matter due to the exit charges that 
applied for the Firm R pension. In early 2020, when Mr P was approaching his 75th birthday, he asked SJP to look into the 
possibility of him transferring his pension again. SJP requested information from Firm R but 
an exit penalty still existed so SJP says that Mr P decided to wait. In June 2020, SJP 
requested information from Firm R again. SJP has said that by this time the exit penalty had 
reduced but so too had the fund value. Mr P again decided not to take any action so SJP did 
not provide full advice on this matter.
I know Ms W doesnt think Mr P would have been concerned about the exit charge and lower 
fund value when compared to the potential loss of £100,000 in income tax that his 
beneficiaries have had to pay. However, because Mr P had already decided he didnt want 
to go ahead, I wouldnt have expected SJP to have provided a full recommendation report in 
circumstances where the client has already decided that they dont want to take a particular 
course of action. And even if they had, there are a number of reasons why I wouldnt have 
deemed it suitable advice to recommend Mr P transfer the Firm R pension to SJP. 
I say this because the SJP drawdown plan had less fund choices and higher charges than 
Mr Ps existing arrangement - which also had a drawdown option. Added to this  as set out 
in the key facts document - there would likely have been an additional fee of 4.5% of the 
funds invested and potentially an additional fee for the drawdown arrangement. In addition, 
at that time Mr P doesnt appear to have had a need for any income and didnt require 
access to his fund. And although Mr P had started to think about ways to reduce his IHT 
liability a few years before, as Ive said above, Im satisfied that he made a decision not to 
proceed with the recommendation at that time. This suggests to me that the tax position of 
his beneficiaries after his death was not his main priority. And the implications on Mr P 
personally of not taking action before he turned 75 were minimal, particularly as he was still 
entitled to tax free cash because he hadnt exceeded his lifetime allowance.  So overall, if 
SJP had provided full advice to Mr P on the pension - which it didnt do as thats not what 
Mr P wanted - I wouldnt have expected it to recommend the transfer as it wouldnt 
necessarily have been in Mr Ps best interest.  And I wouldnt have expected SJP to have 
provided a recommendation to Mr P to transfer based on the death benefits alone. 
Ive also thought about whether SJP was required to provide any other information to Mr P 
about his pension with Firm R and the consequences of not accessing it before his 75th 
birthday.  
SJP couldnt advise Mr P on the merits of taking his pension through Firm R as it was only 
able to advise on SJP products. However, I do think it could provide general information on 
the changes to pensions after age 75.  There is no information to suggest it did this, although 
I do appreciate this could have been discussed but not recorded during one of the meetings 
Mr P had with SJP. Having said this, SJP didnt provide Mr P will full pensions advice and so 
I dont think it was obliged to do this. 
I know the consequences of Mr P not accessing his pension benefits before his 75th birthday, 
have led to his beneficiaries having to pay income tax. This wouldnt have been the case if 
Mr P had already accessed his Firm R pension. But for the reasons explained, I dont think 
SJP is responsible for this action having not been taken. And, although I accept that it may 
have been good customer service for SJP to have made Mr P aware of these changes, I 
dont think it was required to do this.
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont require SJP to 
take any further action. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms W and I do 
appreciate the lack of information regarding SJPs conversations with Mr P will have been 
frustrating. But as Ive said above, its not the role of this service to punish businesses. My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided and reflecting on what is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman