DRN-2920033
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt pay him sufficient compensation as part 
of a rectification project about historic exit charges to certain pension plans.
 
What happened
Mr R transferred his pension to another provider in 2008. An exit charge was applied by 
deducting units worth £1,722.69 from his transfer value.
Following increased focus from the regulator on exit charges and how they were explained 
to customers Scottish Widows undertook a review into past business. They decided the 
information they provided during a certain time period regarding the exit charges could have 
been clearer and so they started a rectification project to refund exit charges to customers 
who transferred away from them at the relevant time.
In 2019, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr R informing him that they would refund him the exit 
charge plus 8% simple interest for the years between 2008 and 2019. The amounts were 
reduced to allow for tax, assuming Mr R was a 20% tax rate payer.
Mr R disagreed with the amounts and after ongoing communications Scottish Widows paid 
the following:
£2,629.09 redress for the exit charge including the 8% interest
£714 to allow for additional income tax as Mr R said he was a higher rate tax payer
£1,049 Mr R paid his financial adviser for support regarding this matter
£500 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused
Mr R doesnt think this puts him back in the position he would be in without Scottish Widows 
error. He feels further losses havent been taken into account. 
He doesnt think 8% interest fairly compensates for investment returns he would have 
received on the exit charge amount in his pension after he transferred. 
The additional amount paid to him will now be subject to inheritance tax as it was 
paid outside the pension.
The exit charge amount would have attracted further tax-free returns in his pension. 
Any investment returns on this sum now are subject to tax.
He doesnt think £500 is sufficient for the trouble and upset this matter has caused 
him. He would like £800.
Our investigator considered the matter and found Scottish Widow had paid Mr R a fair 
compensation amount. She didnt think they had to pay anything else.
Mr R still disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
in which I explained Mr R in fact did receive sufficiently clear information about exit charges 
in 2008 after he queried the terms and conditions. Whilst he had been included in a bulk 
compensation project, Mr R had not in fact been financially disadvantaged or treated unfairly 
by Scottish Widows in 2008. In these particular circumstances I didnt consider it fair or 
reasonable to ask Scottish Widows to pay him anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr R was included in a compensation project as he fell into a tranche of customers who had 
transferred their pension in 2008 and paid an exit charge. I think its worth noting though that 
the background for this exercise was that Scottish Widows thought the exit charges had not 
been explained clearly enough to some of their customers at the time of transfer and they 
might have acted differently if they had understood they were being charged this fee. So 
Scottish Widows decided it was fair to refund the fees for all customers who transferred 
during certain times. Its important to note that the charge of the fee itself was not an error. 
Scottish Widows was entitled to charge this in line with terms and conditions at the time.
I think Scottish Widows approach to compensation here was generally reasonable for a past 
review about charges. As this was proactive compensation for a number of customers, I 
think it was acceptable that in the first instance they didnt individually assess what would 
have happened if information on exit charges had been clearer, i.e. how each individual 
might have acted differently if they had known about the charge many years ago and what 
exact position they would be in now as a result. This would have involved investigations for 
every case and detailed information requests from customers. Instead they refunded the exit 
fee with interest at a level of 8% simple, which this service considers fair in most 
circumstances, for everyone who transferred during a certain period. I consider this 
pragmatic and reasonable. It meant compensation offers could be made to lots of people 
quickly and without effort for customers.
Compensation isnt an exact science and any blanket approach can leave some customers 
over-and others undercompensated. So if individuals didnt agree with the compensation and 
thought Scottish Widows lack of clearer information caused them additional losses or 
inconvenience I would expect Scottish Widows to investigate concerns and adapt 
compensation where appropriate. And as set out above, Scottish Widows has in fact listened 
to Mr Rs concerns and paid him some additional amounts.
What I need to decide is whether Mr R has been fairly compensated taking into account his 
individual circumstances. And I think he has.
Ive seen correspondence between Mr R and Scottish Widows back in 2008. On 12 June Mr 
R queried the meaning of cancellation of units as described in the terms and conditions and 
when this would apply. Scottish Widows wrote to him on 19 June and 2 August and 
explained that the transfer value would be reduced if he transferred his pension before his 
selected retirement age which was on his birthday in November 2017. He was also given a 
current transfer value which explained that this took into account a reduction in unit value of 
£1,780.33. Mr R proceeded with his transfer in December 2008.
Based on the information I have seen, Im satisfied Mr R knew he would be charged for 
transferring his pension elsewhere before November 2017 and he would have had a ballpark 
figure of how much this would be (the charge he did pay was in fact slightly lower). So I think 
he had sufficient information to make an informed decision. Scottish Widows decided to refund the fees to all customers who transferred their pension 
during certain times which included Mr R. But considering his individual circumstances, I 
think he was given sufficiently clear information about the exit charge in 2008 before he 
made the decision to transfer. And so I think hes in the position he always would have been 
in. He knowingly paid an exit fee which Scottish Widows was entitled to charge at the time. 
In my view, Mr R hasnt been financially disadvantaged by Scottish Widows actions in 2008. 
In fact he has benefitted from being included in a bulk compensation project. The issue 
Scottish Widows is trying to rectify is not the transfer charge itself, but how that charge was 
communicated to people. In that light, Mr R, strictly speaking, shouldnt have been 
compensated at all because he actually got clarification on exit charges meaning the 
problem Scottish Widows is trying to correct for doesnt apply to Mr R. In the circumstances, 
I dont consider it fair and reasonable to ask Widows to pay Mr R anything further to what 
they have already paid him.
Response to my provisional findings
In response to my provisional findings Mr R said the background of the situation should have 
been explained to him by Scottish Widows. He didnt have the documents from 2008 
anymore, so only saw them when they were provided to him together with the provisional 
decision. If this had all been explained to him by Scottish Widows the matter could have 
been concluded a lot earlier and lengthy correspondence with Scottish Widows and this 
service could have been avoided.
He said he still would have had to check with his adviser to ensure Scottish Widows actions 
-which were taken without consulting him- didnt damage his pension position. He still 
considers the distress and inconvenience payment should be £800. He said he was 
prepared to accept the withdrawal of his other claims if this was awarded.
Having considered Mr Rs further submissions my decision still remains that further 
compensation wouldnt be fair here. Scottish Widows had obviously made the decision not to 
exclude Mr R from the bulk compensation project even though he had received the required 
information in 2008. Its likely the documents from 2008 only came to light when Mr R raised 
his complaint with this service and Scottish Widows reviewed Mr Rs full file. And even then 
Scottish Widows didnt raise this as an argument not to compensate Mr R. They focussed on 
addressing Mr Rs concerns. This was their choice. However, in my role as an independent 
party I consider this was information that was highly relevant.
The fact remains Mr R essentially received compensation when strictly speaking there was 
nothing to compensate for in his individual case. And Scottish Widows paid additional 
compensation over the course of the complaint to pay for Mr Rs adviser fees and payments 
for distress and inconvenience caused. I appreciate Mr R spent time corresponding with 
Scottish Widows, his adviser and this service. However, having considered everything again 
Im still satisfied the overall compensation paid is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I wont ask Scottish Widows Ltd to pay Mr R anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman