DRN-3618603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that BoS mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance,
(MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out the policy during a meeting in 2001, at the same time as taking out
a mortgage. The policy covered them both against accident, sickness and involuntary
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F
disagreed. So it came to me to decide. 
On 17 June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In this I explained that, subject to any 
further information I received, I didnt find that BoS had mis-sold the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F. 
So it didnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to them. But I did find that BoS ought to 
pay back both some of the cost, because of the high level of commission and profit share 
that it got on the sale. I also found that BoS should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation for the 
manner in which it handled their complaint. I noted that BoS had already made a payment 
for the former and made an offer for the latter, at amounts I thought were fair.
Neither Mr and Mrs F nor BoS sent us any further information or comments in the time I 
allowed for them to do so in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Because I have had no new information or comments about this complaint since I issued my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my findings or decision in it, in making my 
final decision. 
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by Mr
and Mrs F. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to make
my decision on the basis of the information that I do have, and what we know generally 
about the sale of MPPI policies and, in particular, those sold by BoS. Where the evidence is
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Im satisfied that these approaches
are a fair and reasonable way of reaching my decision.
Ive decided that BoS didnt mis-sell the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs F say that the sale took place during a meeting. And they dont remember their 
existing benefits, savings or other policies having been discussed at that time. Additionally, 
they say that they took the policy because they were led to believe that the it was necessary 
and normal. But they are trying to recall matters that took place over 20 years ago. And I 
dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on what they remember. In the absence 
of any more persuasive evidence, I dont consider that Ive anything on which to base a 
finding that BoS didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the policy was optional, or that they 
didnt choose to take it.
Mr and Mrs F say that BoS advised them to take the insurance. This means that BoS
needed to have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. 
Because of the time that has passed, I dont know what steps BoS actually took. But, in any
event, I find that the MPPI was suitable. I say this, taking into account what I know about Mr
and Mrs Fs circumstances and by reference to the terms and conditions of the policy,
because:
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the policy; 
Mr and Mrs F werent adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr and Mrs F have told us that they were each entitled to something less than six 
months sick pay. And that they also had some savings. But, following a successful claim 
the MPPI would have paid £300 a month had they both not been working. Or half that 
amount if only one of them was out of work. These payments would have been made for 
up to 12 months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick or redundancy 
payments or savings Mr and Mrs F would have had or been entitled to - leaving those 
available to help with meeting their other expenses while one or both of them wasnt 
earning. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr and Mrs F;
The cost of the policy was initially about £18 a month and was competitively priced by 
reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F. In any event, 
had they later felt that they couldnt afford the policy, they could have cancelled it at any 
time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
Mr and Mrs F appear to have been earning similar amounts at the time of the sale. So I 
find it was reasonable for the benefit to be split evenly between them.
BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs F clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the
main features of the MPPI, so that they could decide whether they wanted it or not. Its
possible that the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs F wasnt as clear as it should have
been. But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that they didnt choose to take the
policy and it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs F not been able to make their monthly 
payments on their mortgage, which was secured on their home.
So I conclude that Mr and Mrs F havent lost out because of anything that BoS may have 
done wrong during the sale. So it doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr and 
Mrs F.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI because:BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because BoS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair;
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said, including the poor service they say
they received from BoS in its handling of their complaint about the sale of MPPI. BoS has
offered to pay Mr and Mrs F £100 as compensation for this. I think this is also fair in this
case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that, Bank of Scotland plc didnt mis-sell
the policy, so it doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F. But I find 
it should pay Mr and Mrs F £100 for the trouble and upset they suffered because of the way 
it handled their complaint.
Further, Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation for this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman