DRN-3173555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs J booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call P. They were due to 
travel between 2 and 13 August 2020. And in January 2020, Mr and Mrs J took out an 
InsureFor annual travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy was underwritten by 
Ageas. 
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against 
all but essential travel abroad. On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-
ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This government 
announcement included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential 
reasons. A number of these lockdown restrictions remained in place in August 2020.
And on 4 July 2020, the UK government announced a list of countries which were exempt 
from the FCDO advice against travel, P was not included on this list. P wasnt added to the 
so-called travel corridor list until 22 August 2020  nine days after Mr and Mrs J were due to 
return to the UK.
On this basis, Mr and Mrs Js airline cancelled their flights and so Mr and Mrs J couldnt 
travel as planned. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for their 
accommodation costs.
Ageas turned down Mr and Mrs Js claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy 
specifically excluded claims which arose because of the prohibitive regulations of any 
government. Therefore, it said the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js claim werent covered.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with Ageas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Js holiday was down to any of the insured events the 
cancellation section of the policy covered. She also thought it'd been fair for Ageas to rely on 
the prohibitive regulations exclusion to turn down Mr and Mrs Js claim. Thats because she 
felt the evidence showed that the airline had cancelled the flights because of government 
restrictions.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They said they didnt think Ageas should be allowed to hide behind 
a dubious clause. They felt it was taking advantage of an exceptional set of circumstances, 
which shouldnt be allowed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I think it was fair for Ageas to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Js policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
Ageas treated them fairly. 
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs J found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was 
purchased in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Ageas obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs J are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Js policy says that Ageas will pay for a policyholders unused travel and 
accommodation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific 
insured events. The Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Js policy, set out 
on page 6, says Ageas will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following 
reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury. Illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative 
or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or 
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness In a Court of Law (but not as an 
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend 
court); or 
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of 
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any Impending 
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or 
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or 
fire; 
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
 6. you, or any person you Intended to travel with, who Is a member of the Armed 
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee 
being ordered to return to duty.
I dont think that Mr and Mrs Js trip was cancelled for any of the above reasons. This 
means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their 
policy. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy. But in 
this case, I dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they 
found themselves in. 
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Js policy wouldnt have provided 
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, 
if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling 
against FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a 
claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Ageas to do so here. I 
say that because I note that the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Js policy includes a 
specific list of things Ageas doesnt cover. This list includes the following term: 
claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. 
The above term is also set out on page 1 of the Insurance Product Information Document, 
under a section called What is not Insured? This document is intended to give an at-a-
glance summary of the main benefits of the policy and significant restrictions on cover. 
Ive looked closely at the available evidence to decide, on balance, the most likely reason 
for Mr and Mrs Js claim. Ive borne in mind too that on 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised 
against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, the UK government had 
imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the local area was severely restricted. Travel 
restrictions remained in place in the UK at the point Mr and Mrs J were due to travel.
The cancellation notification from Mr and Mrs Js airline said: 
Unfortunately, following the latest government advice, your flight(s) is no longer going 
ahead.
And on the claim form Mr and Mrs J sent Ageas, they said:
Due to travel restrictions in place for P (airline) cancelled our flights on the evening of 27 
July 2020 and we were therefore unable to travel as planned.
In my view, the evidence suggests its more likely that a combination of factors government 
restrictions both in P and the UK, the FCDO advice and the flight cancellation  are all likely 
to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs Js decision to cancel their trip. So not only 
are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Js holiday not covered as listed, insured 
events under their policy, I dont think Ageas acted unfairly when it relied on the exclusion 
clause Ive set out above.
I can entirely understand why Mr and Mrs J had to cancel their trip and I sympathise with 
their position. But overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to turn down their 
claim. And I dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Ageas to 
settle the claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman