DRN-2299955
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc settled a third party claim under her motor 
insurance policy, which she says she wasnt involved in. She says Allianz didnt originally tell 
her about this which led to her insuring her car with another insurer without declaring this.
What happened
Allianz received a letter in June 2018 from a third-party insurer (TPI) to notify them of a 
claim. They said the third partys vehicle was parked and unattended in a supermarket car 
park when it was hit by Mrs C. They said that a witness took the registration details and 
contacted the third party. 
Allianz wrote to Mrs C with details of the claim and asked her to confirm whether she was 
involved in the incident. Mrs C responded and said she wasnt aware of the incident and that 
nobody had approached her at any time during the two hours she was parked. Allianz 
emailed Mrs C and explained they were making further enquiries to identify how Mrs Cs 
details were obtained given that the third partys vehicle was unattended. 
Having not heard anything back, and having been contacted by the police about the incident, 
Mrs C emailed Allianz in July to find out what was happening with their enquiries. Allianz 
responded and explained they were currently treating this as a misdirected claim and it 
seemed the witness had taken down the incorrect registration. They explained they were 
waiting for the TPI to provide witness details. They explained if they didnt receive these 
details, then they would look to carry out a physical inspection of both Mrs Cs and the third 
partys vehicle to prove their non-involvement.  
   
In a telephone call in July, Allianz explained to Mrs C they would arrange for an engineer to 
come out to inspect her vehicle. Allianz also contacted the TPI to deny involvement in the 
incident and to chase the witness statement. The TPI said that due to personal issues the 
witness hadnt yet responded but they had sent out a chaser.
 
Mrs C sent an email to Allianz in July about an engineer, who she said was due to attend 
that day, to take photographs of her car. She explained she hadnt heard from the engineer 
yet. The engineer didnt turn up, and then arrived a few days later when Mrs C wasnt 
available, so Mrs C complained about this and her emails being ignored. Allianz asked for 
photographs of Mrs Cs vehicle to show there had been no damage. They explained this 
would help them in the dispute with the TPI. Mrs C sent an email to Allianz with photographs 
of her car.
 
A series of emails show that enquiries were made internally at Allianz to identify whether the 
photographs provided by Mrs C would be enough for the engineer to verify that the damage 
to the third party vehicle wasnt caused by Mrs Cs vehicle. The engineer said without 
image with height markers and from me it would not stand up in court and that he would 
need to see the vehicle to protect Mrs C and Allianz. He did offer to inspect it the following 
day if it helped. 
 
Claim notes provided by Allianz show a record in August which notes they tried to re-arrange 
an inspection. The note says that Mrs C was very cross and said there was no damage to 
her vehicle and didnt want the engineer to come back. The note says that the call handler 
tried to explain it was to confirm no damage to her vehicle but Mrs C wanted the call handler 
to get off the phone. The inspection was then closed. 
     
Mrs C raised a complaint about the service she had received and Allianz responded in 
September. They explained that the TPI had told them that the third partys vehicle was 
unattended so they would need to submit a witness statement. They explained they hadnt 
yet received this. They explained to Mrs C they would continue to liaise with the TPI in order 
to close the claim and should any new information come to light they would contact her. 
They also explained that the confusion that arose over sending out one of their engineers to 
inspect Mrs Cs vehicle was overcome by her sending photographs. 
The claim notes also show that Allianz had received the witness evidence and carried out a 
review in November. The note said that, as Mrs Cs vehicle had also not been inspected, 
Allianz would have to deal with the claim on a without prejudice basis as the TPI had a 
supporting witness statement. Allianz then told the TPI they would deal with the claim. The 
witness statement held Mrs C at fault and set out why the witness believed this to be the 
case, it also identified her vehicle registration. The witness also described the incident as 
having occurred at 11.00am.
      
There was further communication between Allianz and the TPI in early 2019, this included a 
letter from the TPI to Allianz in April 2019 confirming they had repaired the third partys 
vehicle and details of the cost. The claim notes show that an invoice was received from the 
TPI in August with payment made the following day. 
Following this, Allianz wrote to Mrs C and explained they had settled the third-party claim 
with a payment being made. Mrs C responded and said she had provided Allianz with 
photographs showing no damage to her vehicle and also pointed out that Allianz had told her 
that a witness hadnt come forward. She complained she hadnt heard anything back and 
now received a letter saying they had settled the claim. She also complained that the lack of 
information meant she wasnt able to defend the claim. 
 
Allianz wrote to Mrs C and explained they had upheld her complaint about lack of 
communication. They accepted that, having told Mrs C that they would close the claim if they 
didnt hear back from the third party after six months, they didnt tell her that they would have 
to reopen the claim if the third party did later contact them within the limitation period. They 
explained that the third party did contact them and provided an independent witness 
statement. They explained they took the decision that, as they didnt have any evidence, 
they would deal with the claim but they accepted they didnt tell Mrs C about this. They paid 
Mrs C £250 compensation. 
Mrs C responded and said she had told Allianz she didnt have any damage to her vehicle. 
She wanted to know whether Allianz had treated the claim as fault or non-fault and also 
complained that, having told her current insurers about this, her premium on two cars had 
now increased by £392. Mrs C sent a further email setting out a list of questions about the 
claim.   
Allianz provided a final response to the complaint and offered a further £100 compensation. 
They agreed they hadnt kept Mrs C informed about what was happening and hadnt 
explained why the decision on responsibility had been made. They explained that, following 
receipt of the independent witness statement, they took the decision to settle the claim. They explained they had concluded that the evidence didnt support a strong defence to the 
claim. They set out the factors they had taken into account when reaching this conclusion, 
this included, no dashcam footage or tracker information, the independent witness statement 
placing Mrs C at the scene of the incident and Mrs C confirming to them that she was within 
the vicinity of the incident location on the day in question. The other factor they noted was 
that they were unable to inspect Mrs Cs vehicle to provide a report to the TPI. They felt any 
attempt to dispute involvement wouldnt have been successful. They also explained that as 
they have settled the claim, it will be recorded as a fault accident. 
Because Mrs C remained unhappy, the matter was referred to this service for an 
independent review. Allianz told us that Mrs Cs complaint about liability wasnt upheld 
because they felt the claim had been settled on the best possible terms and couldnt dispute 
liability without any further evidence to support Mrs Cs position. They explained they had 
sought a second opinion from their panel solicitor who agreed they wouldnt be successful in 
defending a claim at court. They explained the £350 compensation was for the failure to 
notify Mrs C they had settled the claim and the inconvenience she went through having 
renewed her insurance without knowing they had accepted liability.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint about Allianz accepting liability for the claim and 
felt that the £350 compensation paid to Mrs C for the communication issues was fair. Mrs C 
disagreed with the view and provided evidence which she says was sent to Allianz and 
shows she was at an appointment at 10.45am so she couldnt have been involved in a 
collision which the witness claimed happened at 11.00am. The matter has therefore come to 
me for a decision.
     
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs 
C and Allianz on 24 September 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ive seen Mrs Cs policy document which says she is covered for damage to a third-
party vehicle and also allows Allianz to settle a claim in Mrs Cs name. Looking at the 
policy and its terms, I dont think it was unreasonable for Allianz to make a decision 
as the policy allows them to take such steps. That said, the reason why they settled it 
was because they felt there wasnt a strong defence to the claim. So, I will now 
consider whether Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
Despite the TPI holding Mrs C responsible, she told Allianz that she wasnt involved. 
Situations like this do arise so its important for any insurer, when faced with this, to 
carry out detailed investigations to find out what happened and look for any 
independent evidence when forming a view. The witness statement does provide 
independent evidence which supports the TPIs claim. I dont feel it was therefore 
unreasonable for Allianz to take this into consideration when forming their view on 
responsibility. 
  
Mrs C has provided evidence of where she was around the time of the alleged 
incident. But my role isnt to determine liability, it is to consider whether Allianz have 
acted fairly and reasonably when carrying out their assessment. I cant see that 
Allianz took forward this evidence by raising it with the TPI but the timing given by the 
witness as 11.00am and that shown by Mrs Cs evidence is very close so I dont feel 
there was enough doubt created here to challenge the TPIs witness statement and I 
dont think it would have changed the outcome on Allianzs view on responsibility. 
There is however a separate issue here. In their final response, and in support of 
their decision to settle the claim, Allianz pointed out they were unable to inspect Mrs 
Cs vehicle. The entry in November 2018 in their claim notes also suggests that the absence of a vehicle inspection was taken into consideration when deciding to settle 
the claim with the TPI. This information shows that Allianz clearly felt this was 
important so I think they shouldve done more to ensure an inspection was carried 
out. There was a problem with the original appointment and, while Allianzs notes 
suggest that Mrs C didnt want to rearrange the appointment, Allianz were better 
placed to know the consequences of not having this particularly when they know the 
TPI has an independent witness. 
In my view, there shouldve been more effort made to secure an engineers report. 
Allianz could have written to Mrs C and explained why its so important and what the 
likely outcome would be if they do receive the witness evidence without having an 
engineers inspection report to try and challenge this. This wouldve given Mrs C 
more information to make an informed decision. I dont feel one telephone 
conversation by Allianz to attempt to rearrange an inspection was enough knowing 
they are facing an opposing party who has an independent witness. So, Allianz 
shouldve ensured they had as much relevant information as possible to strengthen 
Mrs Cs case. That hasnt happened here. 
I do therefore uphold the complaint that Allianzs investigation into the claim wasnt 
as thorough as it could have been. And therefore I think its this that has led to Mrs C 
concerns that the investigation into the alleged loss arrived at an incorrect outcome. I 
cant comment, nor be sure, what findings wouldve been made by the engineer and 
what impact this wouldve had on the outcome of the claim. It may have not made a 
difference to the overall outcome of the claim. But, it was at least a possibility I think 
should have been explored further.
The passage of time which has lapsed since the alleged incident wouldve made it 
difficult to carry out an inspection now but, in any event, Mrs C has told us that her 
vehicle was written off in a separate incident so it cant be inspected now. Its clear 
however, from the internal emails at Allianz, that the engineer felt they could add 
value to the claim if the inspection showed no damage to Mrs Cs vehicle.
Given that I cant be sure what the outcome wouldve been with an engineers report, 
it follows that I dont intend on requiring Allianz to treat the claim as non-fault. It is for 
this reason also that I dont intend on directing Allianz to be responsible for any 
higher premium payments Mrs C says she is faced with given that this was treated as 
a fault claim. I also cant ignore the fact that the TPI had an independent witness 
which was always going to work against Mrs Cs case. 
I do feel though that the uncertainty created by the lack of information gathered by 
Allianz will be a concern for Mrs C given that she has maintained throughout that she 
wasnt involved in the alleged incident. So, I intend on deciding that it would be 
reasonable for Allianz to pay compensation of £100 to Mrs C. Im satisfied this 
amount is reflective of the level of trouble and upset caused to Mrs C. I think it fairly 
recognises the upset Mrs C experienced in not having her vehicle inspected and then 
later finding out this was an option which wasnt explored even though there mightve 
been some benefit from it.  
In relation to the communication issues, I agree with Allianzs view that they have let 
Mrs C down. This in turn has caused shock when she was told the claim had been 
settled and also the worry and upset caused because she was left in a position 
where she hadnt told her new insurers. I feel the payment of £350 already made by 
Allianz is fair and reasonable for this element of the complaint, because I think this fairly recognises the trouble and upset caused to Mrs C by these poor 
communication issues
On a separate point, I can see that Mrs C has been chasing Allianz for some time 
now asking for confirmation on fault, category, time and date which she says she 
needs to provide to her insurer. She has made repeated requests for confirmation of 
this. Mrs C says that she is due to receive a refund from her current insurer once she 
has received this information. I think its important for me to clarify for Mrs C that the 
claim will either be detailed as fault or non-fault, but there wont be an offence 
attached to it. Insurers only look at their outlay in respect of the claim, and whether 
they were able to recover this. So, theyll record whether the claim was fault/non 
fault, the cost of the claim, and potentially a date. I can see no reason why Allianz 
shouldnt provide this information. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs C or Allianz, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to partially uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
Allianz have responded to say they agree with the provisional decision. Mrs C has made 
further points relating to her complaint. In particular, shes raised points about the witness 
statement. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision. I feel the submissions which are materially relevant to this complaint have been 
addressed in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Allianz didnt gather all relevant information when forming their view 
on responsibility and settling the claim.
 
So, Allianz should pay compensation of £100 to reflect the upset and worry to Mrs C of 
knowing that there was a further defence that couldve been put forward if the inspection 
proved that her vehicle wasnt damaged. Mrs C has always strongly maintained she wasnt 
involved so I believe it is upsetting for her to know there is more that couldve been done by 
Allianz. 
Allianz should also let Mrs C know what has been recorded in relation to the incident. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc must:
Pay compensation to Mrs C in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused;Pay £350 compensation to Mrs C for the poor communication issues, if it hasnt 
already been paid; and 
Write to Mrs C and let her know what is recorded in relation to the incident. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman