DRN-4003035
The complaint
Ms C complains about the service received when she made a claim on her home emergency 
insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Ms C holds a home emergency policy with Aviva. When her toilet developed a leak, she 
called Aviva for assistance to make a claim. Aviva accepted the claim. But Ms C complains 
about how it was dealt with.
In summary she said the engineer turned up almost two hours late and didnt call to let her 
know; that he was difficult with her when identifying the problem; and that he had to return 
the following day but denied doing any extra work. Ms C says all these errors and the time 
spent trying to resolve them compounded, causing her distress and inconvenience. She said 
the time spent between the first and second repair cost her water and the calls she made 
shouldnt have been needed.
Our investigator acknowledged Aviva had made errors here. But ultimately, he thought an 
apology would suffice and didnt recommend any compensation be paid.
Ms C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Cs strength of feeling on this matter. Ive considered all her concerns, but 
Im only addressing those I consider key to the complaint. I can understand how the errors 
impacted her. But, like our investigator Im satisfied an apology is sufficient and I dont 
require Aviva to pay any compensation in this case. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that the engineer was late. Ms Cs appointment was from 8am to 
1pm, and the engineer didnt arrive until 2.35pm. Whats more, Ms C wasnt informed 
they were going to be late and only found out when she called herself. I understand 
this would have been distressing and inconvenient. But the delay is relatively small, 
and the engineer did attend. Aviva should have let Ms C know. But when Ms C 
called, she was made aware the engineer was delayed and would be on their way.
I understand Ms C isnt happy with the engineer, but ultimately, they fixed the 
problem, so Aviva did fulfil its contractual obligation. I can understand how the visits 
and the follow up calls and responses added to the distress. But I dont think it 
requires any monetary compensation.
I understand Ms C has said the calls she made shouldnt have needed to happen. 
And I agree. But this in itself doesnt mean compensation is due. 
Im not persuaded the rise in Ms Cs water bill was caused by the engineer. The 
increase is small and over a six-month period, so I find it unlikely it all occurred over 
one day.
In daily life, things go wrong, sometimes as accidents with no one to blame, 
sometimes as the fault of someone or something. Even when theres a party at fault, 
not everything that goes wrong warrants monetary compensation. And here, things 
did go wrong, and Aviva needs to take the responsibility. I appreciate how they 
compounded to cause Ms C distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied they dont 
require Aviva to pay monetary compensation. An apology suffices  and as Aviva has 
already given this, I require it to do no more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman