DRN-3795351
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments he made as a result of 
scam. 
What happened
Mr S found a classic car advertised online. Following communications with the seller, 
he made two payments in branch  the first for £15,000 and the second for 
£2,936.72.
HSBCs records indicate its staff had a conversation with Mr S about the payments in 
branch, but no warning was given as it didnt think it was a scam. 
When Mr S didnt get the car, he contacted HSBC to report hed been the victim of a 
scam. It declined to refund him, so he brought the matter to our service to look into. 
In April 2023, I sent both sides my provisional thoughts on why I considered Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld. Having now received a response from both sides, Im 
able to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive upheld Mr Ss complaint for these reasons: 
Although its accepted Mr S was the victim of a scam, its not disputed he made these 
payments. So the starting position, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, is that hes liable for them. 
Ive considered whether HSBC couldve reasonably prevented his losses, given its 
obligations to look out for unusual or otherwise suspicious payments that might 
suggest hes at risk of fraud. 
The evidence suggests branch staff questioned Mr S when he made the first 
disputed payment. So the key consideration isnt whether HSBC ought to have 
identified the payments as unusual  it did that. Instead, its whether its intervention 
was adequate in the circumstances. 
HSBCs records of the interaction state no warning was given  the notes refer to him 
purchasing a car as and the emails and invoice theyd seen. They suggest that follow 
up questions were asked  and HSBC has provided guidance on the types of 
questions it uses in branch 
But the records dont tell me exactly what questions were asked or how Mr S 
answered them. And, having reviewed the guidance, I think that had these have been 
used as a starting for its conversation, HSBCs staff ought to have been concerned 
with the circumstances. In saying that, Ive noted: 
oMr S didn't know the seller or the shipping company and there weren't 
reviews for either of them. 
oHe hadnt seen the car but he was being asked to transfer the whole amount 
by bank transfer. 
oHe'd been told that the shipping company would be holding this amount until 
he'd seen the car, a common tactic we hear with vehicle scams to give 
someone a false sense of security.
oMr S was told the seller's uncle had passed away and that's why the price 
was discounted. Again, this is a familiar story with scams to explain why the 
car was reduced.
It follows that I think HSBC was mistaken to be taken in by the emails and the 
invoice. While I accept its impractical and unreasonable to expect staff to ask 
endless questions to detect fraud, I think there was enough causes for concern here 
that adequate questioning wouldve revealed. Afterall, theres nothing to suggest Mr 
S wouldnt have been truthful or forthcoming with information  indeed, I note he 
didnt appear to have been coached by the fraudster on what to say to bank staff, as 
we see in some scams.  
So, in the circumstances, I think there was a missed opportunity to warn Mr S and to 
suggest to him how he could be more confident the seller was legitimate. For 
example, by checking reviews, reverse image searches, asking to pay by a more 
secure method like a credit card or sending only a deposit first. I note this is in line 
with the warning and education that Mr S was given when he reported the scam.
Had this have happened, I think it's likely he would've heeded HSBC's advice and 
that the scam would've ultimately unravelled. I note he'd banked with HSBC for many 
years and gone in to branch to make the payments, so it seems he trusted their 
opinion. This was also a lot of money to lose, so I don't think he would've gone ahead 
if he been given a reason to doubts its legitimacy.
Taking this all into account, Im persuaded that HSBCs failure to provide Mr S with 
an adequate warning led to his losses. So I think it should put things right, by 
refunding the fraudulent transactions alongside 8% simple interest per year to 
compensate him for the time he's been out of pocket.
I've considered whether Mr S ought to bear some responsibility for what happened. 
But he wasn't knowledgeable on vehicle scams, as I'd have expected HSBC to be. 
And from an ordinary person's perspective, I can see how he was taken in by the 
paperwork and the supposedly secure way of paying. It also doesn't seem the price 
was simply too good to be true, and he was given a reason for the discount. And it 
seems Mr S did carry out some checks on the vehicle. Taking this all into account, I 
dont think Mr S should share the blame here. So Ive not made a deduction for 
contributory negligence.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must: Pay Mr S the total of the disputed payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded. I understand this to be £17,936.72.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, accruing from the dates of payment 
to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman