DRN-2371123
The complaint
Mr W complains about 12 instalment loans that he took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS) which he said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mr Ws behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mr W.
What happened
This complaint is about 12 short term loans LS provided to Mr W between September 2011 
and October 2018. Loan 1 was repayable by five monthly repayments, Loan 2 by four 
monthly repayments and Loans 3 to 12 by six monthly repayments. All the loans have been 
repaid. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 22/9/11 17/2/12 £115
2. 31/10/11 18/2/12 £75
3. 25/11/11 18/6/12 £205
4. 30/5/14 18/11/14 £200
5. 25/11/14 18/5/15 £200
6. 27/6/15 5/9/15 £250
7. 11/10/15 18/2/16 £100
8. 26/2/16 24/6/16 £250
9. 13/12/17 2/1/18 £400
10. 10/2/18 25/5/18 £100
11. 29/5/18 19/6/18 £850
12. 5/10/18 26/4/19 £900
Mr W said that LS never verified he was in employment or checked his income to ensure he 
could afford the loans. He was desperate and LS lent to him irresponsibly, giving him loans 
he couldn't afford 
In its final response letter, LS said it asked Mr W to tell it if he was working and if
required, it also confirmed the monthly income Mr W had told it about with an independent 
company to make sure it was right. It also asked what Mr W's costs were for items like rent, 
utilities, food, transport, and dependent care. It checked what Mr W told it with statistical 
information from independent sources. If required, it adjusted these expenses upward and 
used these new figures in its calculations. LS also asked Mr W about his monthly expenses 
for other loans and credit agreements and checked this information with an independent 
credit reference agency. It adjusted these expenses upward where required and used the 
new figures in its calculations. It added up all the expenses and subtracted them from the 
monthly income to see if Mr W had enough money left to be able to pay for
the loans comfortably.
LS concluded that for Loans 1 to 12, the money that Mr W had available after his expenses 
were subtracted was more than the amount needed to pay it each month and would still 
have left Mr W with some money to spend on other things. This meant that these loans were 
affordable. So, it didnt agree to Mr W's complaint.
Our adjudicator noted that there were three chains of lending. She recommended that        
Mr Ws complaint about Loan 8 should be upheld. She said that Mr Ws overall pattern of 
borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans by Loan 8. 
Mr W responded to say that the adjudicators assessment didnt accurately reflect his clearly 
deteriorating financial position for the later, larger loans. Specific indicators from his bank 
statements showed:
-Loan 9 - at the time of borrowing he was £493.51 overdrawn with a limit of £500. Despite 
the £400 loan within the space of one calendar month, his financial position had 
deteriorated.
-Loan 10 - by this point Mr Ws overdraft balance had worsened further to £588.66.
-Loan 11 - a week prior to Loan 11, Mr Ws overdraft balance was £1990.73.
-Loan 12 - at that point Mr Ws overdraft was £1,899.65.
Mr Ws bank statements also showed:
-Unpaid transaction fees.
-Significant loan amounts up to £4,000 from two other high cost lenders.
-An increasingly overdrawn balance throughout the period of borrowing with LS.
-Borrowing from multiple payday lenders illustrating a clear and growing dependency on 
short term borrowing and a worsening financial position.
The adjudicator responded to say that she believed that LS had conducted proportionate 
checks for Loans 9, 10 and 11. But she didnt think that LS conducted proportionate checks 
before Loan 12. She went on to say that she couldnt find evidence of Mr W having problems 
managing his money at that time such as significant amount of outstanding payday loans 
with other lenders. Whilst she acknowledged that Mr W was using his overdraft, she didnt 
think this alone would be evidence of money mismanagement.
LS responded to say that considering the points that had been raised in the adjudicators 
assessment, it agreed to refund the interest and charges paid towards Loan 8 and pay 8% 
annual interest on the refunds (minus 20% mandatory tax withholding in line with HMRC 
regulations). Furthermore, it would remove all the entries for Loan 8 from Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W didnt accept LSs offer. He asked for an ombudsman to assess his complaint. He sent 
this Service his credit report and referred to a number of indicators of financial stress. These 
included arrangements to pay and debt management plans, alongside rolling short term 
loans from multiple providers.
my provisional decisionAfter considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to LS on 23 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
As LS had offered to settle Loan 8, I hadnt investigated that loan. But I included the redress 
for that loan in my proposed compensation award.
It seemed that Mr W had accepted the adjudicators findings about Loans 1 to 7. So, I 
thought that meant that I no longer needed to make a decision about Loans 1 to 7. But Id 
kept these loans in mind when considering Loans 9 to 12.
I said that when LS lent Loans 9 to 12 to Mr W the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors included:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I said there might even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
It was important to say that LS was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably 
repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.  
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow this 
was the case. This was because CONC defined sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments sustainably if they were 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ws complaint.There were three chains of lending because of significant gaps between Loans 3 and 4 and 
Loans 8 and 9 respectively. The first started at Loan 1. The second chain started at Loan 4 
and the third started at Loan 9. So, I thought it was reasonable for LS to have treated Mr W 
as a new customer at the start of each chain. I would have expected lower checks at the 
start of these lending chains and greater checks after the first few loans in each chain.
LS had made a number of checks before it lent Loans 9 to 12 to Mr W. It had asked him for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr Ws declared income was between £1,890 
and £2,000 before Loans 9 to 12. Mr Ws declared expenditure was between £425 and 
£900. I could see that LS had adjusted Mr Ws declared expenditure to between £561 and 
£942. 
LS said that it had also checked Mr Ws credit file before agreeing to the loans. Id seen brief 
information about LSs credit checks. I could see that these showed that Mr W had two 
defaulted and three delinquent accounts at least 45 months prior to Mr Ws applications for 
Loans 9 to 12. I didnt think these should have caused LS additional concerns in view of their 
age. And I didnt think it would have been unreasonable for LS to be more interested in      
Mr Ws recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether these loans were 
affordable. The checks also showed that Mr W had four active credit accounts with total 
credit balances of £3,100 prior to Loans 9 and 10, £3,800 prior to Loan 11 and £9,900 prior 
to Loan 12.  
Wed received Mr Ws credit report. I could see a number of short term loans, high cost loans 
and repayment arrangements on it and referred to these in my provisional decision. 
Loans 9 to 12 were repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the amounts that Mr W 
needed to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But he was 
also committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. 
Mr W highest monthly loan repayment for Loans 9 and 10 was around £176.  I didnt think 
the repayment amounts on those loans were so large that it was obvious they wouldve 
caused Mr W financial difficulty. 
Given Mr Ws repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the time, 
and that these were his first two loans in a new lending chain, I didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for LS to have asked him for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show Loans 9 and 10 were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr W provided before Loans 9 and 10 or the 
information LS shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying. So, I didnt think LS was wrong to give Loans 9 and 10 to      
Mr W. 
I could see that Mr W had taken out Loan 11 just four days after hed repaid Loan 10.   
Loans 9 and 10 had both been repaid early. Hed applied for a loan amount of £1,500. As LS 
had given him a loan of £850, I could see that the lender must have had some concerns 
about Mr Ws financial situation when assessing the loan amount. The loan amount was the 
highest hed borrowed with a highest monthly repayment amount of £281.93 which was a 
significant proportion of Mr Ws disposable income. I thought all this might have caused LS 
some concerns and should have prompted the lender to do some additional checks such as 
gathering more information about Mr Ws other short term borrowing. As far as I could see it 
didnt do this.
So, I needed to think about what LS wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks 
before Loan 11. Had it done so, its likely that LS wouldve learnt that Mr W had at least three other outstanding short term loans all repayable at the same time as Loan 11. Id seen these 
on Mr Ws bank statements and credit report. Id thought if LS had made proportionate 
checks, it would have been clear to it that Mr W was facing significant problems managing 
his money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 11 in a sustainable manner. So, I didnt 
think LS should have given Mr W Loan 11.
Loan 11 was repaid early. I thought the fact that Mr W had repaid Loans 9 to 11 much earlier 
than planned should have caused some concerns to LS. That might be the sort of behaviour 
that would indicate that someone was facing problems managing their money. 
Loan 12 was for £900 but Mr W had again applied for a loan of £1,500. Again, I thought that 
LS must have had some concerns about Mr Ws financial situation as it gave him a lower 
amount than hed requested. I could see that the lender would have been aware from its 
credit checks that Mr Ws credit commitments had substantially increased. The loan amount 
and repayment amounts were his highest yet. Again, I could see that the repayment 
amounts were a significant proportion of Mr Ws disposable income. So, I thought there was 
a greater possibility of him finding the loan repayments unsustainable. And by the time of 
Loan 12, I didnt think it was reasonable for LS to rely on the information provided by Mr W. 
By then I thought it needed to gain a full and complete picture of Mr Ws financial position.
Proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr W was borrowing from at least 
three other short term lenders and two high cost credit providers and was committed to 
repaying them at the same time as hed be repaying Loan 12. I had seen these loans on    
Mr Ws bank statements and credit report. Id also noted from Mr Ws credit report that he 
had entered into repayment arrangements on two of his loans at that time. In these 
circumstances there was a significant risk that Mr W wouldnt have been able to repay    
Loan 12 without undue difficulty or without having to borrow further. I didnt think LS could 
reasonably have believed that Mr W would be able to make the repayments for this loan 
over the term bearing in mind what a proportionate check would have likely shown. So, as a 
responsible lender, I didnt think LS should have given Loan 12 to Mr W. 
I could see that Mr W then had repayment difficulties with Loan 12 as he entered into a 
repayment arrangement to repay it from January 2019. Loan 12 was then repaid after the 
due date. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or LS, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to say that LS shouldnt have given    
Mr W Loans 11 and 12, and that it needed to pay Mr W some compensation relating to these 
loans together with what it had already offered to pay to settle Loan 8. So, LS should put 
things right as shown below. 
putting things right  what LS needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on Loans 8, 11 and 12.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove any adverse entries about Loans 8, 11 and 12 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Both Mr W and LS havent provided a response to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr W and LS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the 
complaint and require LS to pay Mr W some compensation and take the steps as set out 
below.
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Mr W compensation 
and take the steps set out below:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on Loans 8, 11 and 12.
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse entries about Loans 8, 11 and 12 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman