DRN-3815034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has not helped them since they 
fell into arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied for a commercial mortgage with Barclays in 2008.
Since then, Mr and Mrs B have taken further loans to make improvements to their property, 
and this was consolidated into one mortgage in 2016.
Mr B has a disability which he says has worsened over the course of the mortgage and hes 
now unable to work. Mr and Mrs B say Barclays hasnt worked with them to find a way for 
them to keep their home. They say theyve only been offered payment deferrals which have 
worsened their debt, and this has caused significant stress to them and their family. 
Barclays issued a new final response on 20 July 2022. It didnt refer to what correspondence 
had been had between the parties, but it did acknowledge a flag should have been applied 
to Mr and Mrs Bs account to indicate Mr B is a vulnerable customer. It apologised this didnt 
happen and offered £75 in compensation
Mr and Mrs B say Barclays hasnt addressed their concerns and they didnt accept the offer, 
so they continued their complaint with this service. Our investigator looked into Mr and 
Mrs Bs concerns, but they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more. As Mr and 
Mrs B remained unhappy their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I note Mr and Mrs B previously referred a complaint to the ombudsman service and said that 
Barclays was irresponsible when it agreed to the mortgage  that it should have anticipated 
Mr Bs disability would worsen and that they wouldnt be able to afford the mortgage. 
Another ombudsman looked at that case and issued a jurisdiction decision to say the events 
Mr and Mrs B complained about were out of time under the rules we have to follow, so this 
service couldnt consider the complaint. 
Looking at the complaint points Mr and Mrs B have raised in this case, many of the points 
overlap. As an ombudsman has already said those points are out of our jurisdiction, I wont 
be able to consider those points further. So, for clarity, I will separate what I can and cant 
look into below.
I cant consider Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the following:
Barclays didnt consider whether Mr and Mrs B would be able to make their 
repayments for the life of the mortgage, considering Mr Bs disability.
Barclays said Mr B wouldnt be able to get payment protection insurance because of 
his disability, which otherwise may have helped them to repay their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B still owe as much as they did when they took out the original loan.
I can, and have considered Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about following:
Barclays hasnt made reasonable adjustments for Mr and Mrs B considering Mr Bs 
disability.
Barclays didnt discuss options for repayment before appointing receivers.
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. This means we dont have the power to 
make a finding on whether Barclays actions amount to discrimination under the 
Equality Act 2010. Having said that, we do take all relevant legislation and regulations into 
account before reaching a finding on what we consider to be fair and reasonable. So, thats 
what Ive done in Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Mr and Mrs B say the final response letter proves Barclays didnt make reasonable 
adjustments for them. Ive thought about this, and I appreciate why Mr and Mrs B feel this 
way, but I dont think it does. Barclays has apologised because it hadnt applied a flag to 
Mr and Mrs Bs account to highlight Mr B was vulnerable customer. While it should have 
done this, its important to understand Mr and Mrs Bs account was being looked after by a 
business support team (BBS) who operate on a different system. BBS was fully aware of 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, and all exchanges would have been handled by that team 
until they were passed onto Debt Recoveries, who were also made aware of Mr and Mrs Bs 
situation. So, I dont think the missing flag would have had an impact on Mr and Mrs B at the 
time it wasnt in place. Barclays has offered £75 to say sorry it wasnt applied sooner, and I 
think thats fair in the circumstances.
That said, I still need to consider whether reasonable adjustments were necessary and if so, 
what Barclays did about that. Mr B hasnt provided much detail about his disability or how it 
affects him, but Mr and Mrs B have been unable to meet their monthly repayments on time 
for an extended period, and all parties accept its unlikely, due to the severity of Mr Bs 
disability, that hell be able to run the business going forward. 
From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs B havent asked for any specific reasonable adjustments 
other than for Barclays to show understanding of their inability to meet their repayments. So, 
I think the main complaint point is really about whether Barclays gave Mr and Mrs B the 
opportunity to find another way to keep their home and thats what Ive focused on in this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs B paid off their arrears in 2018, but they started missing payments again, so 
their account was referred to BBS in January 2019. Mr and Mrs B were granted a payment 
deferral from June 2019 to November 2019, then as a result of the coronavirus, Covid-19, 
pandemic (the pandemic) Barclays granted three months payment deferrals in May 2020 
and another from November 2020 through to June 2021. This was longer than was normally 
given due to Mr and Mrs Bs holiday lettings business which would have been impacted on 
by the pandemic. Mr and Mrs B have complained that Barclays kept offering them payment deferrals which 
has only increased their debt. But I havent seen anything to demonstrate they would have 
been able to make their repayments if the deferrals werent in place. The payment deferrals 
bought them time to find a way forward and get back on track, but unfortunately, given 
Mr Bs disability, this wasnt possible.
I can see BBS emailed Mr and Mrs B on 15 June 2021  around the time their final payment 
deferral came to an end. BBS explained it could continue to assist them if they kept up their 
repayments going forward, but if they missed another repayment, they would be transferred 
to the Debt Recovery Unit. BBS said, if Mr and Mrs B needed more time to put a repayment 
plan together and could provide evidence they would be able to fund the mortgage going 
forward, they may be able to stay with BBS for longer. But if they couldnt provide evidence, 
BBS could transfer them to Debt Recovery as soon as possible so they could start 
discussing their options further. BBS asked Mr and Mrs B to let them know which option they 
preferred. 
Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have replied and in August 2021 they missed another 
payment. So, BBS contacted them again on 25 August 2021 and said that they hadnt 
received a response to the previous email, but they needed to know how Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to progress. Mr and Mrs B confirmed they had assumed they were being transferred 
to Debt Recovery already and that they agreed the referral should go ahead. 
Following this, a formal demand was issued on 15 September 2021 to start the transfer 
process. Debt Recovery then issued a letter on 26 November 2021, which explained that an 
agreement needed to be reached to repay the debt and without this, it was possible they 
would appoint receivers. 
Mr and Mrs B say they had some ideas of how they could maintain the repayments or settle 
the account. But Barclays didnt receive any further payments and from what Ive seen, the 
proposals made by Mr and Mrs B would more likely than not take a long time to come to 
fruition. While I appreciate they wanted more time, they had been struggling to make their 
repayments for a number of years at this point and I think its reasonable if Barclays wanted 
a quicker solution. 
Barclays sent a third-party surveyor to attend Mr and Mrs Bs property on 10 March 2022. 
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs B to provide a copy of the valuation completed on the 
property. It explained that due to concerns over converting the holiday lettings into 
residential accommodation, the surveyor felt it was only possible to sell the property as one 
package. Although they did say the land could potentially be sold in portions this wouldnt be 
enough to clear Mr and Mrs Bs debt on its own. 
Mr and Mrs B say they got their own valuation completed by a specialist in the area, which 
was higher. They say their surveyor gave more options that may allow them to pay off their 
debt in full and still keep their home. So, they feel Barclays hasnt explored all the options 
and is settling for a low amount at their expense.Although Mr and Mrs B seem to think both surveyors views conflicted significantly, from 
what Ive seen, both surveyors had concerns about being able to sell the property as 
separate plots. There were a few reasons for this including that the local council was unlikely 
to agree given their residential home is a grade II listed building and converting the holiday 
lettings to residential properties would set a precedent in the area. In any case, Barclays 
hired a professional third party to complete the survey and its entitled to rely on the advice 
of that surveyor. 
Following this, on 21 June 2022, Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs B to give them 14 days 
notice of its intention to appoint receivers. I understand this will have been very upsetting for 
Mr and Mrs B, particularly considering what theyve said about ongoing health concerns 
Mr B, Mrs B and three of their children were living with. While I empathise with them, I dont 
think Barclays could have done much more to help them. Unfortunately, Barclays cant allow 
the situation to go on indefinitely and from what Ive seen its given Mr and Mrs B a 
significant period of time to work things out. Barclays seems to have been in open 
communication with Mr and Mrs B and it seems to have given fair consideration to the 
options available.
Considering everything, I havent seen that Mr and Mrs B asked for any specific reasonable 
adjustments. Or that Barclays didnt take Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances into consideration 
when it should have. The main issue centres around the fact Mr and Mrs B are unable to 
afford their mortgage and theres limited prospects of them being able to in the near future. I 
think Barclays gave them a long time to propose a suitable way forward. As no progress was 
made, Barclays eventually started the process of recovering the debt by appointing receivers 
and I dont think it had any other viable options available to it. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but if they want to 
accept Barclays previous offer they can sign and return the attached settlement form.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman