DRN-3293013
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service that he received from Capital One (Europe) plc following
his request for a payment holiday on his account.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr H applied for a three-month payment holiday on his Capital One credit
account as he was struggling to meet the contractual repayments due on the account
because of the financial impact of Covid-19. His application was approved, and Capital One
applied a three-month payment holiday to Mr Hs account.
In June 2020, Capital One wrote to Mr H and advised him that the three-month payment
holiday was coming to an end and asked Mr H to select a payment plan from the options
presented to him. Mr H subsequently selected a payment plan, and Capital One sent an
email to Mr H which confirmed the agreed payment plan to him.
In October 2020, Mr H didnt make the scheduled payment required on the recently agreed
payment plan. In response, Capital One sent Mr H an email advising him that because his
payment had been missed the agreed payment plan had been revoked and his account had
been suspended. Capital Ones email also explained to Mr H that a higher monthly payment
was now required from him and invited Mr H to contact them by telephone if he felt he
couldnt afford to make this higher monthly payment.
Mr H did contact Capital One by telephone and explained that he was continuing to struggle
to meet the required monthly payments on his account become of the ongoing financial
impact caused by Covid-19. Because of this, Mr H requested a further three-month payment
holiday on his account, to which the Capital One agent to whom Mr H spoke with agreed to
at that time.
However, Capital One then decided that they were unwilling to implement a second three-
month payment holiday on Mr Hs account, and they sent Mr H an email advising him that
his request for a second payment holiday had been declined and explained that this was
because he had already a had a three-month payment holiday applied to his account
previously.
Mr H didnt receive Capital Ones email, which it later transpired had been delivered into his
junk email folder. As such, Mr H continued to believe that he was on a second three-month
payment holiday and didnt make any payments towards his account. Mr H later discovered
that Capital One hadnt actioned the payment holiday that had been verbally confirmed to
him and that they were reporting his account as being in arrears for missed payment as a
result. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Hs complaint. They confirmed that they were unable to apply a
second three-month payment holiday to Mr Hs account because such payment holidays can
only be applied to an account once. However, Capital One acknowledged that Mr H had
been given incorrect information about this by the agent that hed spoken to, and so they
apologised to Mr H for this and credited his account with £30 by way of compensation for the
trouble and upset the matter had caused.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. During their investigation, Capital
One made an additional offer to reimburse the fees and charges that Mr H had incurred on
his account in October, November, and December 2020, as well as to remove the missed
payment reporting from Mr Hs credit file for October 2020. Our investigator agreed with the
spirit of Capital Ones offer, but they also felt that Capital One should make an additional
payment of £100 to Mr H to further compensate him for the inconvenience and upset this
matter had caused.
Mr H didnt feel that the recommendation put forwards by our investigator went far enough,
and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 January 2021 as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who
benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the FCA
explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had been able to
meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that time, but who were at
risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their credit files solely as a
result of the impact of Covid-19.
The FCA also explained that consumers who didnt meet the eligibility criteria for these
three-month payment holidays  such as those who were already in arrears on their account,
and who had therefore already incurred adverse reporting on their credit files  should still
be offered financial assistance by credit providers if they requested it, but that this
assistance should be tailored to the individual circumstances of those consumers and
shouldnt benefit from the suspension of credit file reporting that the prescribed three-month
payment holidays benefited from.
In this instance, when Mr H first applied for a three-month payment holiday in April 2020, its
notable that he was already in arrears on his account at that time and had been so since
February 2020. As such, its questionable as to whether Mr H was eligible to receive the
three-month payment holiday in April 2020 and whether he shouldnt have received a
different form of financial assistance from Capital One at that time.
However, it must be acknowledged that the FCA moved quickly to publish and implement
the guidance on three-month payment holidays, and that business such as Capital One were
themselves experiencing the impact of Covid-19 at that time, which often included staff
shortages as well as the logistical challenge of enabling remaining staff to work from home
as much as possible. Additionally, it seems apparent that Mr H wasnt adversely impacted by
being granted the three-month payment holiday by Capital One, and Im satisfied that thegranting of the payment holiday by Capital One was of benefit to him.
As the end of Mr Hs three-month payment holiday approached, Capital One contacted Mr H
and explained that his account was in a state of arrears from before the payment holiday and
asked him to arrange a new payment plan moving forwards. Mr H agreed a payment plan
with Capital One and made payments to the account in line with that plan.
However, in October 2020, Mr H couldnt make the payment required on his account by the
recently agreed payment plan, and his account fell into arrears. And it was only after his
account had fallen into arrears that Mr H requested a second three-month payment holiday
from Capital One.
When Mr H requested this second three-month payment holiday it was agreed by the agent
that Mr H spoke with, such that Im satisfied that Mr H ended the telephone call with Capital
One on the understanding that a second three-month payment holiday would be applied to
his account and that he wouldnt have to make any payments towards the account for the
next three months.
Capital One subsequently made the decision that Mr H wasnt eligible to receive a second
three-month payment holiday. But the email that they sent to Mr H about this, and also the
response that they sent to Mr Hs subsequent complaint, explained that this was because Mr
H had already had a three-month payment holiday, which was the maximum amount
permitted, and therefore wasnt eligible for a second such payment holiday.
Capital Ones explanation here wasnt accurate, and I say this because further guidance
issued by the FCA in July 2020 detailed that eligible consumers were entitled to a maximum
of two three-month payment holidays.
However, having considered the circumstances here, I dont feel that Mr H was an eligible
consumer for the purposes of the second three-month holiday, and I say this because Mr Hs
account had been in arrears at the end of the first payment holiday, and because Mr H had
agreed a payment plan with Capital One following the end of the first payment holiday which
had also fallen into arrears by the time that Mr H requested the second three-month payment
holiday on his account.
As such, what I feel should have happened was, when Mr H telephoned Capital One and
requested the second three-month holiday, that he should have been told that he wasnt
eligible to receive a second three-month payment holiday and that Capital One should have
discussed his financial position at that time and arranged a suitable, alternative form of
financial assistance with him.
This means that, while Im satisfied that Capital One did arrive at the correct outcome when
later deciding that Mr H wasnt eligible to receive a second three-month payment plan, it
appears that they arrived at this correct outcome via an invalid line of reasoning, which they
then used to explain to Mr H why his second three-month payment holiday had ultimately
been declined.
Furthermore, given that Mr H had left the telephone conversation with Capital One in which
he had requested the second three-month holiday with the reasonable understanding that
the payment holiday would be granted, I feel that it was incumbent on Capital One to have
ensured that Mr H was aware that he was no longer going to receive the second three-
month payment holiday and that he did need to make payments towards his account or 
come to an alternative arrangement with them.
I dont think that Capital One did that here, and I say this because given the potentialconsequences here  that Mr H might incur adverse reporting on his credit file as a result of
not making the payments that he reasonably believed he didnt have to make  I dont feel
that the sending of an email to Mr H was a sufficient to ensure that Mr H received the
important information about his account, and I would have expected Capital One to have
made greater efforts to contact Mr H so that the position of his account was made clear.
That being said, Im not convinced that had Capital One contacted Mr H, for example by
telephone, and explained that his request for a second three-month payment holiday had
been declined, that Mr H would have been in the financial position to have made the
payment to his account that would have been required at that time. And this is not only
because Mr H had already missed the payment required on the account payment plan at
that time, but also because Mr H had applied for the payment holiday on the basis that he
was struggling to be able to make payments to the account moving forwards.
Consequently, while I do feel that Mr H should have been contacted by Capital One following
their decision to decline his request for a second three-month payment holiday on the
account  which Im satisfied was ultimately a valid decision  and that Mr H should have
been offered a different form of financial assistance by Capital One at that time, I dont feel
that this should have included that Mr H wouldnt have incurred any form of adverse credit
reporting for the month of October 2020, and so my provisional decision wont include any
requirement for Capital One to amend their credit file reporting for that month.
Capital One have offered to reimburse to Mr Hs account all interest, fees, and charges
incurred or accrued on the account for the months of October, November, and December
2020. This seems reasonable to me, and I feel that its plausible that the financial assistance
that Capital One should have offered to Mr H may have included this provision, and so this
will be included as an instruction in my provisional decision.
Furthermore, I do feel that Mr H has incurred a significant amount of upset and
inconvenience as a result of the incorrect information and poor standard of service that hes
received from Capital One in this instance, and I dont feel that the £100 recommended by
our investigator adequately acknowledges this. My provisional decision therefore includes
that Capital One must increase the amount of further compensation payable to Mr H to £350.
Finally, Im aware that Mr H has requested that this service instruct Capital One to write off
the balance of his account. However, this isnt an instruction that I would consider, and while
I do feel that Mr H should be compensated for what has happened here, I also feel that its
fair that Mr H should repay to Capital One the credit that he has benefitted from on his
account.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that I provisionally uphold this
complaint on the following basis:
Capital One must reimburse to Mr Hs account all interest, fees, and charges incurred
or accrued on the account for the months of October, November, and December
2020.
Capital One must make a further payment of £350 to Mr H to compensate him for the
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr H continues to be in arrears on his account, Capital One should contact Mr H
and arrange either a suitable payment plan or agree a suitable form of financial
assistance with him, in consideration of Mr Hs income and expenditure information
at this time. This instruction does not prohibit Capital One from following normalcollections procedures, where that is deemed to be the most appropriate option, but
the rationale for doing so and the potential consequences of this for Mr H should be
clearly explained to by Capital One to Mr H  so that Mr H has a clear understanding
of the position of his account and of his potential options moving forwards.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr H and Capital One the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to provide before I moved to a final 
decision. Both Mr H and Capital One confirmed that they had no further submissions to 
make in response to my provisional decision, and so I see no reason not to uphold this 
complaint against Capital One on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Capital One must reimburse to Mr Hs account all interest, fees, and charges incurred or 
accrued on the account for the months of October, November, and December 2020.
Capital One must make a further payment of £350 to Mr H to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
If Mr H continues to be in arrears on his account, Capital One should contact Mr H and 
arrange either a suitable payment plan or agree a suitable form of financial assistance with 
him, in consideration of Mr Hs income and expenditure information at this time. This 
instruction does not prohibit Capital One from following normal collections procedures, 
where that is deemed to be the most appropriate option, but the rationale for doing so and 
the potential consequences of this for Mr H should be clearly explained by Capital One to Mr 
H  so that Mr H has a clear understanding of the position of his account and of his potential 
options moving forwards.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman