DRN-3212345
The complaint
Mr J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wouldnt let him 
cancel a hire agreement when he became aware of a potential change to his personal
circumstances.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr J entered into a two-year hire agreement with VWFS for the use of a 
car. Mr J says he intended to use the car for work and meet the payments by means of 
additional income he received for mileage expenses. Mr J took delivery of the car on 21 
February. He says that soon after, he became concerned over the potential impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic on his work, and the fact that home-working would cause a reduction in 
his expected income.
Mr J says he contacted the dealership on 4 March to cancel the hire agreement, and was 
told to contact VWFS directly. He attempted to do so but received no response, later 
contacting the dealership again who provided him with a VWFS website address. Mr J says 
he was unable to sign in to the website and resorted to emailing VWFS. Hes unhappy that 
VWFS told him he was out of time to cancel the hire agreement, maintaining he attempted to 
do so within the cancellation period.
VWFS says it has no record of receiving a cancellation request from Mr J within the 
cancellation period afforded by the hire agreement. It adds that it also made enquiries of the 
dealership, but that it also had no record of such a conversation. VWFS says the first contact 
it received was on 26 March, when Mr J told it of his change in circumstances and asked 
whether he could either return the car of have a payment break due to his reduced income.
Our investigator couldnt find any evidence to support Mr Js contention that he asked to 
cancel on 4 March. He asked Mr J for telephone records, but Mr J said he couldnt supply 
these, having made his call from work. The investigator wasnt persuaded the available 
evidence was enough to conclude Mr J had sought to cancel the agreement within the 
cancellation period. He didnt think VWFS had treated Mr J unfairly in rejecting his request.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how best I thought matters should be resolved. In my provisional 
findings I said:
Mr Js hire agreement is governed by  among other things  relevant provisions of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and rules made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) as detailed in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Neither 
the cancellation provisions in CONC 11.1 nor the withdrawal arrangements in section 
66A of the CCA apply to consumer hire agreements.
Im conscious that our investigator referred to different legislation in his assessment  
the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013, which includes a provision based on the date goods are supplied 
under a distance contract.
Further examination of Regulation 6(1)(b) in that legislation, however, shows that the
regulations do not apply to a contract for services of a credit nature, other than as an
ancillary contract  presumably because of the CCA provisions that are relevant. 
That said, I dont think this makes a material difference to whether VWFS is treating 
Mr J fairly in rejecting his cancellation. Ill explain further.
Mr J has described that the agreement was sent to him by email following discussion 
with the dealership, which means it was signed off-premises as defined in the CCA. 
The relevant sections of the CCA then, are sections 67 and 68. They have the effect 
that Mr J was entitled to cancel the hire agreement provided he did so within the 
cooling-off period specified in section 68.
According to section 68 of the CCA,
The debtor or hirer may serve notice of cancellation of a cancellable 
agreement between his signing of the unexecuted agreement and
(a)the end of the fifth day following the day on which he received a 
copy under section 63(2) or a notice under section 64(1)(b), or
(b)if (by virtue of regulations made under section 64(4)) section 
64(1)(b) does not apply, the end of the fourteenth day following the 
day on which he signed the unexecuted agreement.
Section 68(b) isnt relevant in this case, as no regulations made under section 64(4) 
have the effect of altering the section 64(1)(b) requirement on VWFS to send Mr J 
notice of his cancellation rights. So whats relevant is the five-day period set out in 
section 68(a).
I think its important to clarify this because in addition, it means the key date isnt 
when Mr J signed the hire agreement or when he took delivery of the car, but the 
date by which he should have been aware of the cancellation period. VWFS has 
provided a copy of that notice, sent with its welcome letter, dated 22 February 2020, 
specifying the five-day cancellation period. So based on the cancellation rights Mr J 
had under the agreement by virtue of that section, allowing for two days delivery 
starting on the following Monday, he had to notify VWFS that he wanted to cancel no 
later than 2 March 2020 (given it was a leap year).
Mr J doesnt suggest that he gave such notice by that date. He says he first 
attempted to cancel on 4 March, having only had concerns shortly after taking 
delivery of the car. It follows that I cant reasonably find that he notified VWFS within 
the required cancellation period. It also stands to reason that it therefore isnt 
necessary for me to reach a finding on whether Mr J contacted either VWFS or the 
dealership on 4 March.
Im aware that Mr J has said he didnt receive the cancellation notice. I accept that 
not all post is correctly delivered, though I also have to accept that a much greater 
proportion successfully reaches its destination. Nor is there an obligation on a party 
to send such items by any form of recorded delivery. As far as I can see, the notice 
and accompanying letter were correctly addressed by VWFS and on balance, should 
have been delivered to Mr J within the timescale Ive outlined above. It wouldnt be 
fair for me to say that VWFS should bear the consequences if for reasons outside its 
control, Mr J didnt receive that notice.In his correspondence with VWFS, Mr J mentioned the likely reduction in his 
expected income. Although this isnt the main thrust of his complaint, Im conscious 
VWFS ought to take reasonable steps to assist a customer who might be facing 
financial difficulty. That isnt likely in Mr Js situation to go as far as allowing him to 
cancel the agreement outside the cancellation period, however. And I note VWFS did 
make further enquiries of Mr J to see how it might assist with his ability to afford the 
agreement. Mr J has since continued with the agreement, which by now is 
presumably approaching an end. In light of this, I dont think theres anything more I 
could usefully suggest that VWFS ought to do (or have done) to assist Mr J.
I asked both parties for any further comments before making a final decision.
Response to my provisional findings
VWFS accepted my provisional conclusions. Mr J thanked me for clarifying the position in 
respect of the CCA provisions. However, he remains unhappy with several aspects of 
VWFSs handling of matters. He said, in summary:
he wasnt made aware of how or when the welcome pack would be received, or of its 
significance in terms of the cancellation arrangements. All correspondence with [the 
dealership] and VWFS had been through email only, so sending the welcome pack 
by post allowed the possibility that it might be delayed or not received at all. Sending 
the paperwork with the vehicle itself would eradicate any potential doubt
he should have been made aware of the cancellation policy in documentation prior to 
the welcome pack being issued. It would surely be a legal requirement for the 
dealership to have fully informed the customer of the appropriate legislation as part of 
the credit agreement. It was unfair that the processes followed left him unable to 
cancel the agreement through no fault of his own
although he did receive correspondence from VWFS in relation to his personal 
financial concerns, its proposal didnt make sense, as it would have effectively cost 
him more money. VWFSs offer was to adjust the mileage allowance, reducing his 
remaining monthly payments by £2.82. That would have saved £47.94 over the 
remaining term. However, VWFS also said it would charge a £60 administration fee 
for this.
Mr J thinks a fair approach would have been for VWFS to apply the mileage 
reduction from the start of the contract, relating as it does to the total miles covered 
when the car is returned. He says this would have been fairer as it would also have 
had an effect on the deposit sum he paid, rather than just the monthly payments. 
VWFS hadnt really engaged with his situation and refused to respond when 
contacted
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Noting what Mr J has said about the welcome pack and its importance, I cant dispute that 
had VWFS or the dealership sent the paperwork by email, or with the car, there would be a 
chain of evidence to demonstrate its receipt. But that doesnt mean I should criticise the 
delivery method that was used. All kinds of important paperwork are sent by post, and it 
remains a legitimate method of delivery. Ive explained my finding over the despatch of those 
terms, and havent seen anything further that leads me to reach a different conclusion.The hire agreement contains cancellation wording consistent with the relevant provisions of 
the CCA, as was the way in which the cancellation notice was provided to Mr J. The legal 
requirement is set by the CCA, and I must have regard for relevant law when determining 
whats fair and reasonable. I cant change the legal requirement, or apply a more stringent 
obligation to say that VWFS or the dealer ought to have been required to do more.
With this in mind, I remain of the opinion that I cant uphold Mr Js complaint about VWFSs 
decision not to allow him to cancel the hire agreement.
I take Mr Js point about the proposals put forward by VWFS. It stands to reason that where 
an administrative charge for reworking the arrangements outweighs the saving that might be 
made in proceeding with those arrangements, it wouldnt be worthwhile doing so. But Im 
also conscious that while hes obviously unhappy with what was proposed, this wasnt part of 
the complaint he referred to VWFS (or us), which was about exercising his right to cancel the 
agreement. Rather, its something hes raised as a further point in the course of us dealing 
with his complaint.
Ive made some general observations in my provisional decision about what a lender or 
owner in a hire agreement might be expected to do in response to a customer facing 
financial difficulty. And I also observed that VWFS did contact Mr J to discuss his situation. 
But our rules say that I can only deal with a complaint where the business in question has 
received and had the opportunity to respond to it.
Although theres an obvious connection between Mr Js reasons for wanting to cancel the 
agreement and his reasons for asking VWFS for assistance with his financial situation, the 
two matters arent intrinsically linked such that one issue automatically suggests the other. 
Our rules dont permit me to expand the scope of a complaint to cover any issue with which 
a complainant might also be unhappy.
While Mr J will undoubtedly be upset at the prospect of having to make a separate complaint 
to VWFS about this aspect, and might perceive what I say here as a technicality, Im afraid 
any finding I might reach about this aspect in the context of the complaint that he did make 
to VWFS would not be binding on the business. So I regret to say I cant properly offer an 
opinion here on what, if anything, VWFS might have done differently in responding to his 
requests for assistance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here and in my provisional decision, which Ive reproduced and 
which forms part of this determination, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman