DRN-2267989
The complaint
Mr I complains that Covea Insurance plc settled another drivers claim against his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Another driver said the door of Mr Is car had caused damage to their car. Covea 
investigated the claim and, as Mr I said there had been contact, it settled the claim. Mr I was 
unhappy with this and Covea had a further engineer assess the claim. He said that the 
damage to the other car was inconsistent with the damage to Mr Is door. He thought pre-
existing damage had been included in the repairs. 
So Covea apologised to Mr I, restored his No Claims Discount (NCD), and paid him £100 
compensation. But Mr I thought further compensation was warranted for his time and 
trouble. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been contact between the cars. So he thought Covea had reasonably had a second 
engineer assess the damage and then accepted the results. He thought Covea had restored 
Mr Is position and he thought the offer of £100 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr I replied that he had agreed that there was a possibility that the cars had made contact, 
but there was no proof of this. He said Covea had settled the claim without waiting for an 
engineers report or photographs. He said he wanted further compensation for the awful 
treatment and stress hed endured.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has raised a number of concerns about how he feels he has been treated by Covea. It 
isnt our role to punish businesses. Nor is it our role to investigate allegations of fraud made 
against other parties. I also cant comment on Coveas recovery actions against the other 
driver. I think thats for it to decide. Our role is to consider whether complaints made by 
consumers against businesses have been resolved fairly and reasonably. 
I think Mr Is main complaint was that Covea settled the other drivers claim without fully 
investigating it. Mr I then disputed this and Covea changed its decision after further 
investigation. Mr I thinks Covea should compensate him for this. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr I the same as someone else in his position. 
Covea is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr I to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr I has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance 
policies, and I dont find it unusual. Furthermore, insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim before making a decision 
on liability. So Ive looked at how Covea initially decided to settle the other drivers claim. 
The other driver made a claim to Covea. He provided CCTV footage which seemed to show 
that an incident had taken place. Mr I said contact may have been made between the cars, 
but no damage had occurred. Covea said it would have to admit liability for any proven 
damage. An independent engineer inspected Mr Is car and found a small amount of 
damage that he said could be linked to the damage to the other car. A report on damage to 
the other car confirmed the claimed for damage and linked it to Mr Is car. So Covea paid the 
claim. 
I think Covea was obliged to accept a claim made by the other driver. I think it then 
reasonably investigated it by considering the versions of events, the CCTV footage, the 
report of an independent engineer and the damage reported for the other car. 
I think Mr I said in his accident report contact may have been made by the cars. So I think 
Covea needed to consider whether it could successfully defend the claim. And I think it could 
reasonably rely on the expert engineers report that Mr Is car had damage that could relate 
to the other cars claimed for damage. 
Mr I was persistent in stating that he hadnt caused any damage to the other car. He pointed 
out that images of the other car being repaired showed the damage couldnt have been 
caused by his car. Covea then revisited this and it asked for the independent engineers 
opinion again. He agreed that the claimed for repairs included pre-existing damage that 
couldnt have been caused by Mr Is car. 
Covea said it should have asked for photographs of the other car and so it could then have 
asked the engineer for a consistency report. And I think this was a failing on its part. But 
otherwise, I think it reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence it then 
had available before accepting liability, as it was entitled to do by the policy terms and 
conditions.  
When a business makes a mistake, as Covea accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Covea acted immediately to restore Mr Is position once it had the engineers 
view. It changed its liability decision, apologised, removed the claim from the records and 
restored Mr Is No Claims Bonus. So I think Covea acted reasonably and promptly to restore 
Mr Is position. 
The claim should have been removed from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database and shouldnt have any effect on Mr Is future premiums. If Mr I thinks it has done, 
then he should check this with his insurer. 
Covea also offered Mr I £100 compensation by way of an apology. I can see that Mr I 
obtained legal advice, and hes explained in detail the effect the claim has had on him. I can 
also see that Mr I has spent a considerable amount of time detailing his concerns to Covea and to us. Ive no doubt that this has been a stressful and worrying time. But I think any 
claim, and complaint, involves an element of upset and inconvenience. And I dont think 
Covea needs to compensate Mr I for bringing his complaint to us. 
I think Coveas error was in not obtaining a consistency report from its engineers before 
agreeing to pay the claim for repairs. As Ive said above, I think it otherwise investigated the 
claim fairly in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. And I think Coveas offer of £100 
compensation is sufficient for the trouble and upset caused by this error. This is because its 
in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. I dont require Covea to increase 
this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman