DRN-2160036
The complaint
Mr P complains that the loans he had from MYJAR Limited were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr P had 4 loans from Myjar between January 2018 and September 2019 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Scheduled 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 22 Jan 2018 £250 82d £121.64 13 Apr 20187 On time
2 25 Apr 2018 £400 157d £115.32 28 Sep 2018 On time
3 3 Oct 2018 £500 329d £71.62 27 Aug 2019 On time
4 7 Sep 2019 £175 74d £88.94 19 Nov 2019 On time
Mr P says if Myjar had done better checks it would not have approved the loans. He says 
they were approved in quick succession and he had to borrow further to make repayments.
Myjar says it asked Mr P about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file. It 
says that based on the information it had, it found all the loans to be affordable and it 
considered it had carried out proportionate checks.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that by 
loan 4, Mr Ps borrowing pattern suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-term 
loans. She recommended that interest and charges should be refunded on loan 4 (plus 8% 
statutory interest) and that the loan should be removed from Mr Ps credit file.
Myjar accepted the adjudicators view.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that if Myjar had checked his credit file it wouldve seen 
he had several loans at the same time and wouldnt have approved further lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Myjar needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors could 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Myjar was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Im satisfied Myjar carried out proportionate checks for these loans. I say that because it was 
early in the lending relationship and the repayments were a small proportion of Mr Ps 
declared income. I cant see there was anything in the available information that should have 
suggested loans 1 and 2 were unaffordable.
Loan 3
Mr P took out loan 3 within 5 days of repaying loan 2. It was for a higher amount and for a 
much longer term. For those reasons, I dont consider Myjars checks went far enough. I 
consider a proportionate check at this stage should have included a full financial review 
before approving any further lending.
That said, there is nothing in the available information that would have indicated to Myjar that 
the repayments on loan 3 were unaffordable so I cant conclude it was wrong to approve the 
loan.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
By the time Mr P applied for loan 4, hed been borrowing from Myjar for over 19 
months. As these high interest loans are intended for short-term use, I consider Myjar 
should have realise Mr P was not using the lending for that purpose;
Due to Mr Ps borrowing pattern, I think Myjar ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably;
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Myjar. Loan 4 was taken 
out 19 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr P had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Myjar over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Myjar continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ps 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loan 4 and Myjar should put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. MYJAR Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr P paid on loan 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans taken by loan 4 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman