DRN-1512653
 
The complaint 
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny  irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about 52 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr B between August 2015 
and July 2018. Mr Bs borrowing ranged between £50 and £850. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan 5 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because he had a few outstanding loans with Sunny as well as 
other short-term lenders and his borrowing pattern indicated he was reliant on this type of 
loan. Sunny disagreed but offered to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loan 24 onwards. Mr B 
declined Sunnys offer. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Having done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Sunny needed to do more when it approved loans 1 to 4. Mr B 
didnt respond to the view. As there is no dispute about these loans, I wont be making any 
findings on them.
Sunny says it carried out checks before it lent loan 5 to Mr B and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns. But as this was Mr Bs fifth loan in nearly four months, I think 
Sunny should have been looking to build a clearer picture about Mr Bs finances before 
lending to him again. 
In the space of 14 days Mr B had borrowed £350 over three loans. I think the fact Mr B was 
borrowing in quick succession should have caused some concern to Sunny. As that might be 
the sort of behaviour that would indicate someone was facing problems managing their 
money and needing to fill a gap in their finances. 
And if Sunny had carried out proportionate checks on Mr B, its likely to have found that as 
well as having three outstanding loans with itself, he was borrowing a significant amount 
from another short-term lender. All of this was increasing his monthly outgoings. And this 
meant the likelihood of him having to borrow again to sustain the repayments was high. I 
think this was proven when four days after borrowing loan 5, Mr B took out another loan for a 
larger amount. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 8. I say 
this because: 
at this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr B had taken out eight loans in four months. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr Bs first loan was for £500 and loan 8 was for £700. By now, Sunny ought to have 
known that it was unlikely Mr B was borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his 
income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 8 onwards Mr B was provided with a new loan within weeks of taking out a 
previous one. He also wasnt really making any inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 52 
was taken out almost three years after Mr Bs first. Mr B had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny provided borrowing for loan 8 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5 to 52;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 5 to 7 from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 8 to 52 should be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman