DRN-2397089
The complaint
Ms S complains that she is unable to access her Atom Bank Plc savings account after it 
brought out an updated App.
What happened
In November 2017 Ms S opened a three-year fixed savings account with Atom. This account 
is an App only account. So, it can only be accessed via an App from either a customers 
smartphone or tablet device.
In February 2020 Atom emailed its customers to notify them of some changes to the terms 
and conditions that would apply to some of its accounts. One of these changes involved its 
decision to upgrade its App, which meant that customers could only access the upgraded 
App if they had a PIN code enabled device. And the upgrade was due to take effect in March 
2020.
On 1 May 2020 Ms S discovered that she wasnt able to access her account using the App 
on her mobile telephone. So, she contacted Atom on several occasions to query why she 
couldnt log in. 
During discussions with Atom, it informed Ms S and her husband that in order to use the 
upgraded version of its App her device required a PIN code. But Ms S didnt wish to set up a 
PIN code for her mobile telephone. So, she remained with access to her account. She 
therefore complained to Atom that it had locked her out of her account.
After Atom investigated, it didnt uphold Ms S complaint. It explained that in order to access 
its upgraded App shed have to enable a Pin Code on her device. And it offered to assist her 
in setting that up. But Ms S continued to inform Atom she was unwilling to change her phone 
settings. So, Atom agreed to send a statement by post, which showed her account balance 
together with all interest that had accrued since the account had been opened.
Being dissatisfied with how Atom had dealt with her complaint, Ms S referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what happened and, while they empathised with Ms S, 
they didnt recommend upholding her complaint. Overall, they didnt think that Atom had 
made an error or needed to do anything more here. But Ms S disagreed and asked for her 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both Ms S and Atom for the level of detail contained within their submissions. 
Ive considered all the information provided by both parties when reaching my decision. If I 
havent specifically referred to a point that Ms S or Atom have made it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, an approach that 
reflects the informal nature of this service.  
My role is to assess whether I think Atom made a mistake, or treated Ms S unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Ms S experienced 
here. I can see how strongly she feels about her complaint. But, having thought about 
everything she and Atom have said, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Before I do though, I can see Ms S has mentioned how different banks deal with App 
upgrades. And shes said she hasnt had to change the settings on her phone when shes 
upgraded Apps with other banks. While I understand why Ms S may be keen for me to know 
about how other banks have implemented changes to their Apps, this complaint is about 
Atom. So, I will focus on the action it took here. As there are a number of different parts to 
Ms S complaint Ill focus on each separately.
Did Atom act unreasonably in refusing to discuss Ms S account with her husband?
Ive listened to call recordings between Ms S, her husband and Atom from the date she 
discovered she was unable to access her account. Initially Ms S husband attempted to 
discuss her account with Atom. But Atom refused to disclose information about Ms S 
account as both her and her husband were initially unable to correctly answer the security 
questions asked.
I know Ms S and her husband were frustrated at being unable to discuss the account with 
Atom during initial discussions. But I think it was reasonable for Atom to refuse to discuss Ms 
S account with her husband. 
I also think it was reasonable for Atom to insist on taking Ms S through security directly. I say 
this because, allowing Ms S husband to assist her with answering the questions Atom asked 
,is contrary to the security measures it has in place. And, when Ms S was unable to correctly 
answer the questions asked, I think Atom acted correctly in explaining that it wouldnt 
discuss her account as it hadnt been able to verify the identity of the person it was speaking 
with.
I should also add that Im satisfied the call handlers in the recordings Ive heard dealt with 
Ms S and her husband in a helpful, courteous and professional manner. So, I havent found 
any errors in how the telephone calls were handled by Atom.
Did Atom act unfairly in upgrading its App?
Its clear here that the reason Ms S is unable to access her account is because she isnt 
willing to install a PIN on her mobile telephone. That is, of course, Ms S choice. And Ive 
taken on board her reasons for not wishing to implement that change. 
Atom has fully explained the reason its upgraded App requires a customer to set up a Pin 
Code on the device theyre using to access their account. Its said this is intended to provide 
its customers with an enhanced level of security in order to protect their funds from 
fraudulent activity or unauthorised access by a third party.
Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. And, as our investigator explained, the need for stronger customer authentication 
is a regulatory requirement.Ms S has argued that, in upgrading the App and changing its access approach, Atom has 
breached the terms and conditions that apply to her account. But I can see that its terms 
outline in detail how it may make changes to its App. They state:
 From time to time we may update or modify the App; (a) to reflect changes in relevant laws 
and regulatory requirements; and or (b) to implement minor technical adjustments and 
improvements. Well let you know when upgrades are available for the app. Some of the 
upgrades may be compulsory if youre to continue using the app; and some older versions of 
the app may become obsolete or cease to be supported over time.
 
I can also see that the terms inform a customer that to use Atoms App theyll require a 
device that meets its minimum operating system and device compatibility requirements. 
These terms go on to provide a link to Atoms website where those requirements are set out 
in more detail. 
In the account terms Atom states clearly that its a customers responsibility to ensure they 
own a compatible device with a compatible operating system for the entire term of their 
relationship with it. And it provides customers with a phone number should further 
clarification be required about what this means.
As the terms clearly outline the importance of the App to gain access to the account, and 
also refer to updates being required, I think Ms S ought to have been aware she would need 
to update her App from time to time. 
Ms S has told our service information relating to App changes wasnt highlighted to her when 
she opened her account. But our service wouldnt expect a business to make a customer 
verbally aware of all the terms relating to their account. Instead, wed expect a customer to 
be provided with a copy of the terms relevant to their account  as happened here. I 
therefore cant fairly find that Ms S was unaware of information about what shed need to do 
to secure access to her account. 
I understand Ms S frustration that the upgraded App wont work without her changing the 
security settings on her phone. But thats part of the security requirement of Atoms 
upgraded App, which its terms allow it to do. As Ms S mobile phone isnt security enabled 
its no longer a compatible device, insofar as Atoms App is concerned. And I cant say Atom 
has acted contrary to the terms of Ms S account or that its done anything wrong in 
introducing an App that requires a device to have a PIN code enabled.
Did Atom appropriately notify Ms S of the changes to its App?
Ms S has told our service that Atom didnt inform her of its intention to upgrade the App in 
advance of that change taking place. So, Ive considered whether Atom acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of Ms S account in notifying her about the change it made here.
In the terms and conditions that apply to Ms S account Atom states it will provide a 
customer with 30 days notice of any changes it intends to make. Atom states it emailed Ms 
S on 19 February 2020 and Ive seen a generic copy of the email it sent. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen as regards when the App upgrade came into effect, Im 
satisfied Atom provided Ms S with the advance notice she was entitled to. I therefore cant 
fairly find that it made an error here.
 
Did Atom refuse to provide statements by post relating to Ms S account?Its clear that Ms S believes Atom has been obstructive in that she states its refused to 
provide regular statements by post. However, I can see that the statement Atom posted to 
Ms S included information showing her opening account balance and all interest accruals 
since the account had been opened. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Atom provided Ms S with the information she 
requested. And I also think this is the same as the information she would have been able to 
see had she been able to access her account via the App. Im not persuaded Atom could 
have provided any additional information to Ms S about her account. So, I cant fairly say it 
should have done more here.
I understand that Atom informed Ms S it would not respond to emailed requests for further 
statements. And I note Ms S objection to its position on that. But as Atom explained, email 
isnt a secure form of communication. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably in refusing to 
provide financial documentation relating to Ms S account via email. 
I can see Atom offered Ms S an alternative way of requesting statements over the telephone 
so that it could verify her identity via its security process. I understand that might have been 
less convenient than email. But I think this was a reasonable approach by Atom. And Im 
satisfied it demonstrates Atom had the security of Ms S account in mind.
Complaint handling
Finally, I understand that Ms S is unhappy with how Atom handled her complaint. However, 
our service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling because its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. 
So, even if I did think Atom hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I 
comment any further on this issue.
I realise Ms S will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Atom informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Ms 
S any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman