DRN-3773332
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about his cash ISA bond which was rolled over to another series upon 
maturity. He says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire Bank), acted 
against his wishes.
Mrs H is complaining on behalf of her husband but for ease I shall mostly refer to Mr H in 
my decision.
What happened
Mr H held a Cash ISA Fixed Rate Bond (Issue 53) with Yorkshire Bank which was due to 
mature on 28 August 2020. Yorkshire Bank wrote to him in July 2020 explaining that it 
would automatically roll over to Issue 63 unless Mr H instructed otherwise.
Rather than rollover Mr H wanted to transfer it to another product provider (Company B). 
He spoke with his local Yorkshire Bank branch in Bolton and completed Company Bs ISA 
transfer forms.
The rollover went ahead  Mr H said against his wishes  and the ISA wasnt transferred 
to the new provider until 18 December 2020. The transfer incurred penalties and Mr H 
wanted those to be repaid to him as well as payment for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in putting the matter right.
Mr H complained to Yorkshire Bank. In its response of 18 March 2021, it said;
It hadnt received any correspondence from Company B with the transfer request 
until 25 November which was outside of the cooling off period. Part of the delay 
was caused by Company B sending correspondence to a branch address which 
was returned by Royal Mail.
Mr Hs ISA was valued at £15,194.41 and he was charged £33.71 for exiting 
outside of the cooling off period. The ISA had accrued £26.98 in interest from 
when it rolled
  over until it was closed leaving £6.73 which was deducted from the capital when it
was transferred to Company B.
It was willing to refund the £6.73 as a gesture of goodwill but concluded it 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr and Mrs H both held the same ISA Issue 53 and wanted to carry out the same action. 
Mrs Hs transfer went ahead but the only correspondence he received from Yorkshire 
Bank was in December to confirm the ISA had rolled over  hed been told nothing else 
prior to that and had no reason to believe the transfer to Company B wasnt going ahead.
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. In brief, 
they said;
It was likely Mr H had called Yorkshire Bank on 24 August 2020 to say he 
was transferring his ISA and it wasnt to be rolled over.
Mr H hadnt received correspondence notifying him his ISA was being rolled over 
to Issue 63 rather than transferred. If he had, he would have taken some action.
Mr and Mrs H made the same investment decisions. Mrs Hs ISA had transferred to 
Company B within the cooling off period and without any exit charges so Mr Hs 
could have done the same.
Delays were experienced in the ISA transfer to Company B and they 
thought Yorkshire Bank was partly responsible for those delays.
They recommended that the exit charges be repaid to Mr H plus a payment of 
£150 for distress and inconvenience cause.
Yorkshire Bank didnt agree. It said neither party had been able to trace a phone call of 
24 August 2020. It wasnt responsible for Royal Mail returning the correspondence to 
Company B. It would be reasonable to assume that company B had checked the 
recipient address when correspondence of 9 October was returned before sending 
further correspondence which was also returned. It was the new provider who was 
responsible for chasing transfers if there are any problems or delays.
The investigator thought that if Yorkshire Bank had provided a forwarding address the 
correspondence would have been received. Yorkshire Bank confirmed the branch was still 
open and the fault was Royal Mails.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding Mr Hs complaint and detailed 
how the matter should be put right but I asked both parties to give me anything further they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, like the investigator, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint albeit with a change to the amount to be paid to Mr H to put the matter 
right. Ill explain why.
In July 2020 Mr H was sent notification of the date of maturity of his ISA on 28 
August 2020 by the Cash ISA Maturity team in Clydebank. He was told his ISA 
would automatically be re- deposited into the Cash ISA Fixed Rate Bond (Issue 63) 
after which Mr H had until 30 October to cancel the agreement without incurring any 
interest charges if he didnt want to rollover. That letter also advised what other 
options were available and that if the customer had any questions or wanted to 
discuss their options, they should visit their local branch, speak with their 
relationship manager, or call on a dedicated phone line.
Mr H was written to again on 20 August 2020 advising the ISA was maturing.
The July 2020 notification did say If you want to transfer your Cash ISA Fixed Rate 
Bond to another provider, please ask your new provider to contact us at Cash ISA 
Team and gave the Clydebank address. However, Mr and Mrs H didnt think this 
form gave them the option to transfer to another manager and wanted to let 
Yorkshire Bank know their plans. So, on 24 August they phoned Yorkshire Bank 
Bolton branch, gave their account details etc and advised they didnt want their 
ISAs to roll over to Issue 63 and were going to transfer to another provider.Mr and Mrs H obtained the ISA transfer forms from Company B and returned 
these on 29 September 2020 giving the Bolton Branch address of Yorkshire 
Bank as the ISA managers address rather than Clydebank.
Company B wrote to Mr H on 3 December to say it had written to Yorkshire Bank on
9 October and 2 November with its acceptance of the ISA funds and request they 
be sent but hadnt received any response. I note it later wrote to Clydesdale Bank 
Cash ISA Team on 23 November 2020 enclosing the earlier correspondence that 
had been returned and marked addressee gone away by Royal Mail.
Mrs H did experience some problems with her transfer, but it did complete on         
4 November. However, Mr H received a letter on 18 December 2020 from 
Yorkshire Bank saying the rollover of his ISA had taken place ie the ISA transfer to 
Company B hadnt occurred. After reviewing the above, I think the crux of the issue 
is whether Mr H informed Yorkshire Bank prior to the rollover cut-off date of          
30 October that he didnt want to proceed with ISA Issue 63. And secondly, were 
Yorkshire Bank in any way responsible for the delays in the transfer itself.
Did Mr H contact Yorkshire Bank before 30 October 2020
Mr and Mrs H say they contacted their Bolton Branch of Yorkshire Bank by phone on
24 August. This was after receiving the July and (I assume) the August maturity 
notifications. Yorkshire Bank doesnt have a copy of the call, but I understand that not 
all phone lines are recorded. And Mr and Mrs H havent been able to provide a copy 
of their phone records despite several attempts to contact their phone provider.
But I think it more likely Mr and Mrs H did make that call. They have been 
consistent in their recollections about the time of day the call took place and what 
was discussed. So even though Yorkshire Bank doesnt have a record of the call I 
think its more likely it did take place.
Clearly Mr and Mrs H contacted Company B and arranged for the necessary ISA 
transfer forms to be sent to them in order to arrange for the transfer and after some 
delays these were returned to company B on 29 September. And we know these 
were received by Company B as they were forwarded onto the Bolton Branch on   
9 October 2020. So, on the face of it, Mr and Mrs H did make contact to confirm 
what they wanted to do and took the appropriate action by completing and 
returning the ISA transfer forms.
Were there subsequent delays
Had the ISA transfer forms been received and processed after they were sent from 
Company B to Yorkshire Bank on 9 October, I think its most likely the transfer 
would have completed within a reasonable time. And within the 15-calendar day 
HMRC guidelines for cash ISA transfers.
However, the forms were sent to Bolton Branch rather than Clydesdale ISA transfer 
team. Mr and Mrs H had used that address as per their statement from Yorkshire 
Bank. But I understand from Yorkshire Bank if those forms had been received in 
branch they would have been passed onto the correct team.
Yorkshire Bank has said the ISA transfer forms it eventually received in November 
couldnt be processed as they werent original copies. But even if it was those incorrect documents that were included within the October 9 correspondence, I still 
think that would have allowed sufficient time for the correct documents to have 
been provided before 30 October. Both attempts by Company B to send the forms 
to the Bolton Branch were returned to Company B and marked addressee gone 
away. The address used in correspondence by Company B was the correct one 
for the branch.
However, I understand the Bolton Branch had been rebranded as Virgin Money. 
And I understand from a phone recording Ive listened to of a call Mrs H had with 
Yorkshire Bank that Mr and Mrs H werent aware of this. They said the last time they 
had visited the branch it was still Yorkshire Bank. And after Mrs H contacted 
Yorkshire Banks main office, she was told that it was in the process of contacting 
customers about the new name. Bearing this in mind I dont think its unreasonable 
to assume Royal Mail returned the correctly addressed correspondence because of 
the name change  which by the sounds of it was very recent.
And while I accept what Yorkshire Bank says  that it is not responsible for the 
reason the Royal Mail twice returned the correspondence  but Mr and Mrs H 
hadnt been informed of the rebranded name. And I think if they had been informed 
the correspondence they sent would have used the correct rebranded name. I 
think that it was Yorkshire Banks responsibility to make sure its customers were 
aware of the name change to ensure that post was still correctly delivered. And no 
doubt Yorkshire Banks customers, not knowing of this change would still be 
corresponding to the branch address under the old company name.
Overall, we know that Mr and Mrs H took the same action with their ISAs. Mrs Hs 
was transferred and not rolled over to the Issue 63 ISA, but Mr Hs wasnt. I think 
that transfer would have come about because of the transfer instructions from 
Company B.
So even though I cant know for sure why Mrs Hs transfer did complete and Mr Hs 
didnt I dont think it unreasonable to assume that in the case of Mr H the post being 
returned by the Royal Mail  which I think was most likely because of the 
rebranding  did significantly impact on the delay. And I dont think it unreasonable 
for Yorkshire Bank to have taken steps in notifying its customers to ensure it still 
received post from its customers.
The current offer  is it fair
As a gesture of goodwill Yorkshire Bank has already offered to repay the early exit 
charge of £6.73 and Mr H had already accrued £26.98 in interest on the rolled over 
ISA which cleared the remaining amount due.
However, as well as the gesture of goodwill repayment of £6.73 I think the interest 
accrued of £26.98 should be paid to Mr H because otherwise he is out of pocket. I 
say this because we know Mr H was trying to transfer his cash ISA to another 
product provider, and if that transfer had been completed on time and as it should 
have done, Mr H would have earned interest on his cash ISA with the new product 
provider. I dont think its reasonable for Mr H to have lost out financially because of 
the delays he experienced.
To put things right I said Yorkshire Bank should repay Mr H the total amount of exit fees he 
had been charged and pay £150 for the trouble and inconvenience Mr H had been caused.Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party to the complaint has given me anything further to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision. So, I confirm those findings and reiterate how 
Yorkshire Bank should put things right. 
Putting things right
Yorkshire Bank should repay Mr H the total amount of exit fees he has been charged. And I 
think Yorkshire Bank was in some way responsible for the delays in the ISA being 
transferred which I understand took Mr and Mrs H a lot of effort to try and resolve the 
situation. So, I think an award of £150 to be a fairer reflection of the trouble and 
inconvenience Mr H has been caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank, should put 
the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman