DRN-3626995
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed her after shes 
said she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs S made two payments to a builder shed arranged to start work on her home in March 
2020. The first cheque, for £2,000 was dated 21 March 2020 and the second for £1,800 was 
dated 23 March 2020. Both payments left her account in the early hours of 24 March 2020 
and showed on her statements the same day.
Mrs S was unhappy with the work the builder carried out on her home. She thinks they were 
a scammer because they pressured her into making the cheques payable to the sole 
directors personal account rather than the limited company and because she wasnt happy 
with the work carried out. Shes described that the owner of the company sent men to her 
home each day but didnt carry out work himself. When he was supposed to go through with 
her what parts of the work she wasnt happy with he stopped coming to her home, and he 
left his tools and other equipment there after his employees had finished their work. 
She feels Barclays is responsible for her loss because when she wrote the cheque to the 
individual, she assumed the cheque clearing time of five days was still in place and shed be 
able to stop the cheque leaving her account after it had been cashed. But, the cheque 
payments were cleared and left her account sooner than this due to a change in Barclays 
clearing times.
Mrs S contacted Barclays on 24 March 2020 to report the matter. They considered her 
situation but felt what shed described was a civil dispute between her and the builder rather 
than a scam. It also explained it had changed its cheque clearing process so the cheques 
had cleared in line with its current policies and procedures and this was correct.
Mrs S brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. They agreed 
the matter was likely a civil dispute but even if the situation had been a scam Barclays hadnt 
missed an opportunity to prevent it. They also felt Barclays was entitled to change its cheque 
clearing process and didnt need to directly inform Mrs S about this policy change. Mrs S 
didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has Mrs S been the victim of a scam?
In this case, Ive first had to establish whether I think Mrs S has been the victim of a scam or 
shes involved in a civil dispute. In order to conclude shed been the victim of a scam, Id 
need to see sufficient evidence that the builder Mrs S was working with likely intended to 
defraud her and take her money from the outset. But having considered Mrs S testimony 
and the other evidence in this case, I dont think this situation was a scam but a dispute 
between Mrs S and the builder over the quality of the work theyd carried out.
Mrs S contacted the builder, which was registered as a limited company with details on 
Companies House, through a trade website that appears to offer a guarantee that the 
tradesperson booked through the site will be legitimate. The site allows customers to leave 
reviews of the work carried out. So as a starting point it appears she contacted the builder 
based on the information she found on this site and had no concerns at this point.
Shes said from very early on in her relationship with the builder she had a feeling something 
wasnt quite right about the situation although hasnt been much more specific about this. 
From what she told the bank at the time she reported the matter shes described a situation 
where the builder has carried out work on her property, but she wasnt happy with the way it 
had been carried out and didnt feel everything theyd agreed had been done. She described 
difficulty in communicating with the builder stating that he would twist her words. 
She told the bank he had dropped men off at her home for several days who had been 
carrying out work. She also said hed left tools at her home when the work was finished, 
which appear to have had some value, that he refused to collect because at that point 
lockdown was in place in the UK. 
I can see the builder, both the individual she paid and the company itself are on Companies 
House and were registered as a limited company when the work was done, although the 
company was dissolved several months later during the pandemic. The company is 
registered to the address on the invoice Mrs S has provided and the individual shes paid is 
the sole director of the company, so appears to be the person who owns it.
From the information I can find online, it appears the company had been trading for some 
time and although reviews are sometimes mixed, mostly from around the start of the 
pandemic, broadly it seems they were providing building services for around a year with 
positive results. It seemed this started to change when the pandemic started. Overall I 
havent found any reviews that reflect that the limited company took peoples money without 
doing the work that had been agreed or anything else that indicates it is a scam. Any 
dissatisfaction expressed seems to indicate a disagreement about the quality of the work 
done. 
Mrs S appears to have paid the builder the amounts set out in the invoice towards the end of 
the job they were carrying out. Although I understand Mrs S feels she was pressured into 
making the cheque payable to the individual and not the company who carried out the work, 
the individual she paid was the sole director. Mrs S hasnt been specific about why she 
thinks this indicates the situation was a scam and the money being paid to the director rather 
than the company doesnt seem to have been used to somehow facilitate a scam given the 
work was already well underway. 
Although I accept you would generally expect to pay the company directly, I cant see in this 
case how this made a difference to Mrs S situation. And there are reasons other than an 
intention to scam someone that mightve prompted this. For example, perhaps it was more 
convenient to cash a cheque with his personal bank. And whilst Mrs S has commented 
around how this might relate to the individuals tax situation, thats not for me to comment on 
here. Im considering whether or not I think builder set out to scam her in this case.Our service has asked the individuals bank for information about their account and how it 
was run and whilst I wouldnt disclose their personal information I have seen that there are 
no concerns about how the account was run and theres no indication they were involved in 
scams.
It seems Mrs S also contacted Trading Standards about the company, but they dont appear 
to have had any concerns at the time the work was carried out and provided her with general 
advice around how to protect herself.
Overall, it seems to me more likely than not this situation is a dispute between Mrs S and the 
company she was dealing with over the quality of the work, not a scam. I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to suggest that the company or individual she was dealing with set out to 
take her money under false pretences from the outset. Its clear they carried out some work 
and when she was unhappy with the quality of this it seems their relationship broke down.
Its not for our service to make a finding on the quality of the work carried out or to become 
involved in the dispute between her and the builder. Because I havent found this situation 
was a scam, none of the protection in place for customers regarding fraud and scams 
applies in this case.
Has Barclays acted unfairly regarding the cheque payments?
I understand the crux of Mrs Ss complaint as she sees it is that when she gave the cheques 
to the builder, she did so on the understanding that she had five days in which to cancel 
them before the money left her account. She feels this offered her protection and allowed 
her to write the cheques when she was in the company of the builder but later could use this 
process to avoid making the payment.
The cheque clearing process is not a measure that was ever in place to allow individuals 
time to change their mind about making payments which is how Mrs S was intending on 
using it. Its a process that allows the bank time to carry out the relevant checks in order to 
follow a payment instruction.
Mrs S has said Barclays shouldve told her when its cheque clearing timeframes changed 
but I dont agree. The cheque clearing process is a matter of policy. And Barclays cant and 
isnt reasonably expected to contact every individual customer to make them aware of every 
change when it happens. This would likely result in excessive contact. What I do think is 
reasonable is that it makes information about these changes accessible to its customers. 
And its done that here by making sure the information is available on its website. Im aware 
Mrs S doesnt have access to the internet, so I understand she didnt have access to this 
information and this is her choice. But I think its reasonable for Barclays to assume this 
information is accessible to most people. 
I would also add that as Mrs S knew she was planning on relying on a certain cheque 
clearance time frame I cant see any reason she couldnt have contacted Barclays to ask 
about this before she made the payments by cheque. She has said she asked the bank 
about the builder she was paying and also spoke to Trading Standards before she made the 
payments so she was clearly already thinking about payment in advance. I think this means 
she had the opportunity to check the clearing process if she wanted to.
Mrs S has also said she called Barclays on 23 March 2020 before the cheques were cashed 
to cancel them and has questioned why this wasnt done. But weve asked Barclays about 
this and it has no record of her having called on 23 March 2020 as shes said. It has been 
able to provide a call from 24 March 2020 where she was told the money had already left her 
account, and having listened to this call she made no reference to having called the day before or having spoken to someone about this previously. The nature of the call appears as 
if it is her first conversation about the situation. So on balance, I dont think I have seen 
sufficient evidence she contacted the bank in time to cancel the cheques as she says.
I understand Mrs S wrote the cheques believing she had five days to cancel them but 
ultimately it was her assumption she would be able to do this and wasnt based on any error 
on the banks part. As it wasnt required to update her about this specific change in its policy, 
I dont think it has acted incorrectly in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman