DRN-2507658
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because Unum Ltd have declined his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr B had a history of depression. In February 2018 he was signed off work by his General 
Practitioner (GP) and prescribed antidepressants up to October 2018. 
Mr B started a new job in October 2018 where he was covered under their group income 
protection policy. underwritten by Unum. This would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) 
period of 26 weeks if Mr B was unable to work due to illness or injury.
He became absent from work in early December 2018 and at the end of the month he 
attended his GP and went back on the medication hed previously taken. Mr B was signed 
off work and prescribed his old medication. Mr B continued to see his GP for symptoms of 
depression and was signed off until July 2019. 
A claim was submitted in June 2019. Unum registered the claim and obtained Mr Bs 
medical records. After review, Unum declined the claim in November on the basis there 
wasnt enough evidence to support Mr B was incapacitated. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B complained and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
looked at what had happened. He said it was clear Mr B was suffering from depression, but 
he wasnt persuaded by the medical evidence that his condition met the policy terms of 
incapacity. So he thought Unum had been fair to decline the claim based on the available 
evidence. 
Mr B disagreed with his findings. In summary he said: 
 Unum didnt ascertain his exact job role and responsibilities or how it would be 
impacted by his condition.
 Unum didnt take into account the self-harm aspect of his condition or that he was 
diagnosed with acute exacerbation chronic depression.
 He was unhappy Unum said he was seeking new employment. 
 He did have counselling services from the crisis team and these notes arent in his 
GP records. 
 A claims specialist would not be qualified to interpret medical evidence as they arent 
medically trained.
So the case has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult time Mr B has gone through. He has made a number of 
detailed representations which I have fully considered. However, Im only going to refer to 
those which I think are relevant to my decision.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
It is for Mr B to demonstrate that he meets the definition of incapacity in order to make a
successful claim. And to be eligible for a benefit under the terms of the policy, Mr B needs to 
demonstrate, through medical evidence that he continues to meet the definition throughout 
the deferred period and beyond. Unums terms and conditions say a member is 
incapacitated if they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation and are not performing any occupation.
Its important to note Mr Bs employment was terminated on 31 October 2019 at which point 
any entitlement to benefit under this policy would have ceased. 
Having reviewed all the available medical evidence, I dont think Unum has treated Mr B 
unfairly by declining the claim. I say that because:
Its clear Mr B was unwell during the deferred period from January to July. His 
medical records support that he was suffering from depression and continued taking 
his previous dosage of medication. It shows Mr B was having difficulty sleeping and 
suffering from low motivation. Mr B contacted counselling therapy but its unclear if 
this was taken forward. Its also noted he was attending wellbeing therapy and by 
April, Mr B says it was making him feel slightly better and he intended to do a phased 
return to work. However, he doesnt appear to attend his GP again after June so its 
not clear if he continued to take his medication or receive therapy during this time. So 
even if Unum was satisfied Mr B was incapacitated throughout the deferred period, 
there is no medical evidence to support his incapacity beyond the deferred period. So 
I dont think Unum were unfair to decline the claim. 
Ive considered if Unum took into account the self-harm aspect of Mr Bs condition. 
Unums internal notes state while the seriousness of reporting of suicidal ideation 
with previous history of reported suicide attempt has been acknowledged, the GP 
confirmed there were no safe guarding concerns for Mr B. So Im satisfied Unum 
investigated this aspect of Mr Bs mental health condition and didnt disregard it. 
I also note in September Unum contacted Mr Bs GP to request a welfare check 
following a suicide threat during a call about his claim. Im pleased the business took 
these steps to safeguard Mr B and although it shows the height of his depression on 
that occasion, it isnt enough to show he was incapacitated beyond the deferred 
period.
Mr B said a claims team arent qualified to interpret medical evidence because they 
arent medically trained. However, Mr Bs medical notes were reviewed by the 
company medical officer (CMO) at Unum more than once and it was this doctor who 
went back to his GP for further clarification of his condition and symptoms. The GP 
confirms that aside from the suicidal thoughts on that day in September when Unum 
contacted the surgery, there was no record of deterioration in his mental health. Or 
any red flags in previous or subsequent reviews. So, I think Unum was fair to rely on this and conclude there was insufficient evidence to show Mr B was incapacitated 
after the deferred period. 
Mr B said Unum didnt ascertain his job role or responsibilities, so didnt understand 
the impact of his condition. But I can see the second section of his claim form asked 
how his condition and its symptoms affected his ability to do his job and Mr B 
explained he installed things from heights and used ladders.  So Im satisfied Unum 
were aware of the general duties of Mr Bs role so were able to consider the impact 
of sleep deprivation and lack of concentration. 
Mr B is concerned that the treatment he received from the crisis teams and helplines 
arent recorded in his GP notes. But I can only make my decision based on the 
medical evidence that was available to Unum at the time of the claim. And I note 
there wasnt any referral from Mr Bs GP for further treatment or therapy. 
Ive also considered the time it took Unum to issue their decision on the claim. Mr B 
has said it took longer than it shouldve, and he was impacted by this delay. 
However, I dont think Unum were responsible for any delay because I can see they 
registered the claim straight away and explained to Mr B they needed to request his 
medical records from the GP in order to assess them. They didnt receive the records 
until 14 August and they were then reviewed by the CMO on 23 August which I think 
is a reasonable timescale. As explained above, the CMO then went back to the GP 
on 4 September for further information by phone and by post. Unum also asked Mr B 
to chase the GP for a response. On 15 October the GP responded, and the case was 
regularly reviewed again by Unum and their medical team, before their outcome 
decision was issued on 20 November. I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to 
await the GPs later submissions as the information provided was essential to allow 
Unum to fairly assess the claim. 
For the reasons set out above Im satisfied Unum has declined this claim fairly because Mr B 
did not meet the policy terms.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman