DRN-2363290
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under his 
home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr M made a claim to Fairmead in February 2020 after a number of hip tiles fell off his roof 
during a storm. Some tiles damaged the lower roof area as they fell.
After sending a surveyor to inspect the damage, Fairmead declined the claim. It said the hip 
tiles had been damaged by wear and tear which wasnt covered by his policy. It also said it 
wouldnt cover the impact damage as Mr M hadnt taken out accidental damage cover.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had treated 
him unfairly. As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint about a storm claim, I generally take into account the 
following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Fairmead hasnt disputed that there were storm force winds around the time that the damage 
occurred. 
Regarding the second question, the winds caused some of the roof tiles to become 
dislodged. High winds do typically cause this sort of damage.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to the roof. In 
deciding this, I usually rely on expert evidence. Fairmeads surveyor reported:
Close inspection of the remaining hip tiles confirmed age related decay as a result of rain 
wash over/frost thaw effect, to have occurred at the junction of the hip tiles/mortar bed to 
the three storey roof area. Due to the severity of the decay the hip tiles were no longer 
adequately bonded to the roof area and have therefore easily been lifted and displaced 
during the recent poor weather conditions.
He thought the bad weather hadnt caused the damage but merely highlighted the poor pre-
existing condition of the hip tiles. Photos in the report support his description.
After the complaint was brought to this service, Mr M provided a letter from his roofer whod 
worked on the roof in 2018. At that time hed replaced four hip tiles. The roofer said hed 
looked to see whether there was any other damage to the roof that couldnt be seen from 
the ground. He said the bond between the other hip tiles and the mortar had been in good 
order and there was no decay in the mortar bed. I have to bear in mind though that its 
possible the roof could have deteriorated in the intervening two years. The fact that the roof 
is on a three storey property and as Mr M has pointed out, is quite exposed means that 
some deterioration might well have occurred over a two year period.
Mr M has also produced evidence that a similar claim for storm damage to hip tiles was 
accepted by his previous insurer in 2018. Its not clear to me whether the policy had the 
same terms and/or whether that insurer sent anyone to inspect the damage. Just because 
one insurer accepts a claim doesnt mean its unreasonable for another insurer to decline it. 
The policy terms may be different. Also in this case the claims were two years apart and 
the roof might have deteriorated in the meantime. 
Fairmead was entitled to rely on its contractors opinion to decline Mr Ms claim and I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for it to do so. I dont think the letter from Mr Ms roofer about 
the condition of the roof two years earlier has thrown sufficient doubt on these conclusions to 
make me think that Fairmead should change its position. In my opinion Fairmead has shown 
its more likely than not that there were existing problems with the roof and/or that a storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. My conclusion is that Fairmeads decision not to settle 
Mr Ms claim for storm damage was fair and reasonable
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman