DRN-3846323
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as R, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont 
reimburse the money the company lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in September 2021, R made a payment of about £115,000 in the belief that the funds 
were being paid to their supplier. Unfortunately, it turned out that they had fallen victim to a 
scam.  By the time the scam was discovered and reported, hardly any money remained in 
the account to which the money had gone. R could however recover about £48,000 through 
their insurance. So, the net loss to R is about £67,000.
R said that NatWest could have done more to prevent their loss. In particular, they feel that 
they were not made aware that imported payments didnt have a Confirmation of Payee 
(CoP) check. They say that had they known this they would not have allowed the payment to 
be imported but processed it manually. This would have enabled the CoP check to happen 
and that would have alerted them to the fraud (as there would have been a mismatch of the 
payee name). R wanted their loss to be reimbursed by the bank under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code).
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
In summary they said:
Rs claim isnt eligible to be considered under the CRM Code as the company together 
with its parent organisation was too big for its claim to be considered under the Code.
Compared to the prior account activity, the disputed payment wasnt out of character or 
unusual to conclude that the bank should have intervened.
The CoP check wasnt required to be implemented for the type of payment carried out by 
R. And because CoP wasnt implemented for these payments, there wasnt an obligation 
on the bank to reference CoP during the payment journey.
On being advised of the scam, NatWest immediately reported it to the recipient bank and 
therefore there was no failure in this regard as well.
The investigator said that given all of the above, they couldnt recommend that the complaint 
be upheld.
R did not agree. They reiterated that the bank ought to have warned them that there was no 
CoP check on imported payments. They also said that the payment was large and unusual 
and therefore the bank ought to have intervened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator, essentially for the same reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. However, there are circumstances 
where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional steps  as for example have 
systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that 
its customers were at risk of fraud.
R says that the disputed payment was large and unusual and therefore the bank ought to 
have intervened and checked the payment with R. However occasional higher payments 
could happen on an account.  So, what I need to consider is the overall account activity 
before deciding whether the bank ought to have intervened in this instance.
I have reviewed Rs account statements for the six months prior to the payment to the 
fraudster, to understand the general account activity.  I see that this was an active account 
with multiple large payments, ranging from £20,000 to £50,000. There have been some 
higher payments too. For example, there was a prior payment of about £72,000, which was 
in fact was made to the genuine supplier to whom the disputed payment was intended. 
Further, I also see that after the disputed payment was made, the account balance was 
around its typical level. So, I dont think there was any cause for concern in that regard as 
well.  
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment stood out 
sufficiently from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted NatWest to take 
further action. I am not persuaded that there is enough here for me to find NatWest at fault 
for carrying out Rs payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
R says that the bank ought to have specifically drawn their attention to the fact that no CoP 
check would be carried out for the relevant payment, as it was an imported payment.
NatWest say that this type of payment is exempt from CoP checking requirements imposed 
by the Payment Systems Regulator (PSR), which was why the CoP check wasnt offered on 
this occasion. It does seem that this type of payment falls under one of the several 
exceptions allowed by the PSR when it gave its direction to certain payment service 
providers (PSPs), including NatWest, to implement the CoP check. 
From what I can see, when allowing those exceptions, the PSR didnt say that the relevant 
provider must notify the payer that CoP check is exempted for that type of payment when 
they make the payment. So, whilst I acknowledge that it is always helpful if the bank could 
provide as much warning and information as possible, I agree with the Investigator that the 
bank wasnt obliged to reference lack of CoP during the payment journey in this instance.
Further, it seems to me that R had made similar imported payments in the past. So, it is 
reasonable to conclude that they would have noted (or ought to have noted) that no CoP 
checks were being carried out for such payments.  
Finally, as explained by the Investigator, Rs claim isnt covered under the CRM code given 
its size. And on being advised of the scam NatWest immediately reported it to the recipient 
bank. Therefore, I dont think there was a failure by the bank in this regard.In summary, I understand the points made by R and I am very sorry that they were victim to 
a callous scam. As Rs claim isnt covered by the CRM Code, I can ask NatWest to 
reimburse Rs loss only if I find that the bank had done something wrong and had that not 
happened the loss could have been prevented. However, for the reasons given, I cant say 
that NatWest has made an error here and so it should reimburse Rs loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman