DRN-3369120
The complaint
Mr B complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and sent money 
back to source rather than releasing it to him. 
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
Mr B had a Pockit account. He used it mainly to receive his DWP benefit payments and 
profits from cryptocurrency trading.
  
In May 2020, Pockit blocked Mr Bs account while it carried out a review. As part of the 
review Pockit asked Mr B to provide proof of his identification, address, and source of funds. 
In response Mr B sent Pockit some information which included screenshots showing his 
benefit entitlement and cryptocurrency trades.  
Over the following months, Mr B sent emails to Pockit to try and get access to the money in 
his account and he complained about how long Pockits review was taking. Pockit responded 
saying they had a right to suspend the account as part of their terms and conditions. 
However, they didnt go into further detail. Mr B didnt hear from Pockit again until November 
2020, when Pockit told him it was still reviewing his account. 
When Mr B brought his complaint to our service Pockit told Mr B they would be closing his 
account and returning the money which was held in Mr Bs account to the original sources. 
Mr B says being without the money in his account had made it difficult for him to manage 
financially and he suffered a lot of stress. 
The investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint agreed that Pockit was allowed to suspend 
Mr Bs account and ask him for information. But she said the review had taken too long and 
that Pockit should return Mr Bs balance to him along with 8% simple interest. She also said 
Pockit should pay Mr B £50 compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had caused 
him.
Mr B agreed but said he was still without his money. Pockit disagreed with the investigators 
view and said it had sent the money in Mr Bs account back to source. So, it couldnt return 
the funds to him. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide.  I issued a provisional 
decision in March 2022 explaining why I intended to partly uphold Mr Bs complaint. In it I 
said the following:
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon to review Mr Bs account, Im satisfied 
that they were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they reviewed 
Mr Bs account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it initially blocked Mr Bs account. 
However, there has been a significant delay in returning the money in Mr Bs account to 
source. Pockit has told us they authorised the return of the funds to source in July 2021  
more than a year after Mr Bs account was first blocked. Whilst I recognise, Pockit are 
entitled to review an account, I dont consider the account to be blocked with little or no 
contact for a year to be acceptable. Despite being asked by the investigator, Pockit hasnt 
offered any explanation for why this process took it so long to complete. 
I note from the information Pockit has provided that Mr B appears to have complied with its 
requests for information relatively promptly. And I can see that Mr B wrote several emails to 
Pockit to try and find out what he needed to do to move things along. In response, Pockit 
said it was reviewing his account.  But I cant see that Pockit asked Mr B to provide further 
information and Pockit hasnt set out what (if anything) it was doing for more than a year. So, 
in the absence of any explanation from Pockit, Im not satisfied Pockit completed its review 
in a timely manner and treated Mr B fairly. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay Mr B 
£50 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused to him by how long its review 
took.
Pockit sent the remaining balance of Mr Bs account back to source. This ensures the funds 
are sent back to the correct person or organisation. Pockit has told us that Mr Bs funds were 
sent back to source in July 2021, I find this to be a long time  given Mr Bs account was first 
blocked in May 2020. Mr B says he is still without the money. And despite being asked by 
the investigator, Pockit hasnt provided any evidence to confirm Mr Bs benefit money has 
actually been returned to DWP. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B isnt entitled to the 
benefit money. And therefore, I think the delay in returning the money had a direct impact on 
Mr B. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs individual circumstances. While I appreciate Pockit are entitled to 
block accounts while carrying out a review, its usually reasonable that a customer still has 
access to their benefit money. Mr B made Pockit aware of his difficulties and that he was 
struggling financially. But I havent seen anything to suggest Pockit reached out to him or 
acknowledged he maybe in a vulnerable position. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay 
Mr B £50 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused to him. 
Pockit should also pay 8% simple interest on the DWP funds held because of the delay Mr B 
has experienced in not being able to access the money. I think it important that Pockit let 
Mr B know what amount it sent back and where so he can contact DWP with enough 
information to be able to withdraw the money.
Im aware that Pockit also returned additional funds Mr B received into his account. Mr B has 
said that the money was from cryptocurrency trading. I know Mr B has provided Pockit with 
evidence about the source of these funds. But Ive also looked at the information provided by 
Pockit and Im not satisfied that this shows Mr B is entitled to the funds. So, I agree this was 
the right action in the circumstances.
So, to put things right, I said Wirecard should:
Pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused himPay Mr B 8% simple interest on Mr Bs benefit money from 23 May 2020 until the 
date of the funds being released back to source
Provide Mr B with a detailed breakdown of which source the money has been 
returned to so that he is able to obtain the funds from DWP
Mr B responded and said he thinks the money which was returned to source should also be 
refunded to him. Wirecard didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view to partly uphold the complaint for the same reasons I 
gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and form part of this decision.
I understand Mr B thinks Pockit should also return the money it sent back to source which he 
says was the result of crypto currency trading. But Ive also had to consider Mr Bs position 
alongside all the wider information available to me, including the regulatory and legal 
obligations Pockit must balance when taking decisions. And the information it relied on to 
take the actions it did, which Ive seen  that said Mr B wasnt entitled to the money. 
In doing so, Im satisfied Pockit made a legitimate and proportionate decision in not releasing 
the money to Mr B. This doesnt of course mean that I think Mr B has committed any crime 
or wrongdoing. That is not what I need to decide; nor was it required of Pockit to decide in 
order to take the action they did. So, I cant say Pockit has treated Mr B unfairly when it 
decided not to release the money to him and returned it to source. And I wont be asking the 
Pockit to do so.
For the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision Im not satisfied Pockit 
completed its review in a timely manner and treated Mr B fairly. Because of this, I think 
Pockit should pay Mr B £50 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused to him 
by how long its review took.
Pockit also sent the remaining balance of Mr Bs account back to source. These funds 
included Mr Bs benefit money. It did this in July 2021. I find this to be a long time  given 
Mr Bs account was first blocked in May 2020. I note Mr B says he is still without the money. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B isnt entitled to the benefit money. And therefore, I 
think the delay in returning the money to source had a direct impact on Mr B. 
While I appreciate Pockit are entitled to block accounts while carrying out a review, its 
usually reasonable that a customer still has access to their benefit money. Mr B made Pockit 
aware of his difficulties and that he was struggling financially. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Pockit reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a vulnerable position. 
Because of this, I think Pockit should also pay Mr B £50 compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset caused to him. 
Pockit should also pay 8% simple interest on the DWP funds held because of the delay Mr B 
has experienced in not being able to access the money. 
I also think it important that Pockit let Mr B know what amount it sent back and where so he 
can contact DWP with enough information to be able withdraw the money.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right, Wirecard 
Card Solutions Limited should:
Pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused him
Pay Mr B 8% simple interest on Mr Bs benefit money from 23 May 2020 until the 
date of the funds being released back to source
Provide Mr B with a detailed breakdown of which source the money has been 
returned to so that he is able to obtain the funds from DWP
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman