DRN-3786175
The complaint
Mr M complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined to pay 
costs of rearranging his daughters wedding after claiming on his wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had wedding insurance that was underwritten by RSA, for his daughters wedding she 
was planning to have in Turkey in August 2020. However due to Covid-19 restrictions, the 
wedding was unable to go ahead so he rescheduled the event in the UK.
In June 2021 he called RSA to inform them that he would be rescheduling and to check the 
costs would be covered under the policy. RSA said it would need to check with the 
underwriters of the policy and would confirm of it would be covered.
Over the months that followed Mr M provided details of costs for the rescheduled wedding, 
as requested by RSA. However shortly after this RSA informed Mr M that his claim for the 
costs of the new wedding had been declined. It said the costs had already been paid before 
he notified RSA and the wedding didnt represent a like for like rearrangement as specified 
in the policy. It said it would therefore only pay for the money lost from having to cancel the 
wedding in Turkey which amounted to around £5,700.
Mr M was unhappy with this decision and made a complaint. He said he had provided lots of 
information about the costs up to this point and had never been informed the claim hadnt 
been accepted. And he said the cost of a wedding in the UK will always be more expensive 
but the wedding was the same standard as the one in Turkey.
RSA didnt formally respond to Mr Ms complaint within the required time frame so he asked 
this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has said it has declined the rearrangement costs for the wedding because the 
rearranged wedding was not of a similar standard to the original. Mr Ms policy states as 
follows:
In the event of cancellation or curtailment of the wedding, wedding reception or wedding 
services for reasons shown in Part 1 above we will pay up to the amount shown on your 
Schedule of cover to reimburse you for additional costs paid in rearranging the wedding 
and/or wedding reception and/or wedding services to a similar standard to the amount 
originally budgeted.
So I agree that cover only applies where the rearranged wedding is of a similar standard to 
the amount originally budgeted.
Ive looked at the costs Mr M has provided of the wedding in Turkey and the rearranged one 
in the UK and I can see the new wedding is significantly more expensive. The cost per 
person for catering is an additional £75 and the total difference is around £30,000, which is 
more than double the cost of the original wedding. Based on this, I think the new wedding 
doesnt reasonably meet the policy requirement that it is a similar standard to originally 
budgeted, as the budget far exceeds what was originally required.
I understand Mr Ms point that weddings in the UK are more expensive than those in Turkey, 
and I sympathise with his position. However the policy specifically only provides cover when 
the wedding remains at a similar budget and standard to the original, and based on the cost 
difference I dont agree thats the case here. 
Further, the policy goes on to say:
Any additional costs and expenses must be notified to [Business name] and agreed in 
advance of the rearranged wedding.
Based on the invoices provided I can see that Mr M made payments for the wedding in May 
2021. And he first notified RSA of the need to claim in June that year. Therefore the 
rearrangement was confirmed before he notified RSA, which doesnt comply with the 
requirements in the policy.
I note Mr M says he wasnt told by RSA that this was required and was led to believe that the 
claim would be covered. RSA has provided a recording of a call made by Mr M to it on 8 
June 2021 when he first notified it of the need to reschedule the wedding. Ive listened to this 
call and the call handler explained to Mr M a number of times that the information he 
provided would be passed to its underwriters to confirm if cover would apply and that he 
shouldnt go ahead with the arrangements until this is done. So I dont agree Mr M has been 
misled. 
Based on this, I think RSA has acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
by declining Mr Ms claims for the cost of rearranging his daughters wedding. So I wont ask 
it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman