DRN-1764496
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way TSB Bank Plcs recorded information on his credit file after it 
agreed to write off his overdraft balance, and with the customer service he received. 
What happened
In October 2019, TSB agreed to write off the balance of Mr Ps overdraft, on the basis hes 
unwell and unlikely to be able to repay this in the foreseeable future. 
Mr P says TSB reported to the credit reference agencies that his account had been partially 
settled, despite telling him it would show as fully settled. He also says staff were rude to 
him, he was put on hold numerous times, spoke with someone different each time and that 
promised call backs werent made. 
So, Mr P raised a complaint with TSB. In response, it said that while it gave him incorrect 
information about how the balance would reflect on his credit file, this wasnt settled in full 
and it must report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. TSB recognised it 
hadnt called Mr P back on multiple occasions though. And it offered him £75 for distress and 
inconvenience and £25 to cover his call costs. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P got in touch with our service saying he made it clear he would only 
agree to TSB writing off his balance if this was recorded as fully settled, in the way his other 
lenders had done. Mr P says TSB hasnt done what it agreed it would, adding to his stress 
when hes unwell. 
Mr P also let us know the balance still showed as outstanding on his credit file. And that as 
TSB told him it wouldnt mark this as fully settled because it didnt agree to do this in writing, 
even though he obtained a letter from a branch, which he says indicates that the debt should 
be marked as fully settled. 
Whilst the complaint was with us, TSB went on to incorrectly register a default on Mr Ps 
credit file, in place of the partially settled entry. It offered Mr P a further £50 compensation 
for this. And it said the letter was given to Mr P by the branch after hed been told his 
account would show as partially settled on his credit file, and it was purely to assist him with 
applications to other lenders. 
Mr P got back in touch with our service. He said his credit file still showed as defaulted and 
his credit card limit increase had been declined as a result.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. He said while TSB gave Mr P 
incorrect information, it can decide how his account should be recorded on his credit file and 
that partially settled was an accurate reflection of what had happened given TSB had 
agreed to write off the debt. And he thought TSB had fairly compensated him for the loss of 
expectation it caused him. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said that if hed known TSB was going to mark his account as partially 
settled he wouldnt have asked it to write off the balance. And that his account was still 
incorrectly showing as defaulted on his credit file. 
So the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
Since then, Mr Ps confirmed the default has been removed from his credit file. And TSBs 
said his account should now be showing as partially settled.
 
I spoke with Mr P at his request. He said he doesnt want the debt to be reinstated with TSB 
 hes happy its been written off, although he may repay it in future if hes able to. And I 
explained that I was unlikely to ask TSB to record his overdraft as fully settled on his credit 
file, as partially settled is a fair reflection of whats happened, given he hasnt repaid the 
balance and doesnt want the debt back. 
I let TSB and Mr P know that given the customer service issues hes experienced and the 
incorrect information hes been given, I initially thought TSB should pay him a further £275 
compensation on top of the £125 its already paid (not including the £25 for call costs). I think 
this also takes into account that TSB went on to make a further mistake by recording a 
default on Mr Ps credit file while the complaint was with us, which caused him worry and to 
have to get in touch with it again during an already difficult time. 
Mr P let us know he would accept this. But TSB didnt agree. It says that while the account 
initially showed up as defaulted rather than partially settled, it doesnt think this justifies 
further compensation as Mr P was already unhappy with the partially settled entry anyway. 
And that its unreasonable for him to complain about the way this has been recorded when 
he couldnt repay the balance. TSB also said Mr P is welcome to repay this if his credit file is 
his main concern. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that TSB incorrectly told Mr P that his overdraft balance would be recorded 
as fully settled on his credit file, rather than partially settled. But this doesnt necessarily 
mean TSB should honour this. Instead, I need to decide whether I think TSBs mistake 
means Mr P is now in a different position to what he would have been in if it had given him 
correct information. And, if so, what it should do to put this right, if anything.  
Mr Ps said at times that he wouldnt have asked TSB to write off his overdraft if he had 
known the correct information. But, while he wouldnt have a partially settled entry on his 
credit file in that case, he would still owe TSB the full balance during a time when hes 
unwell. And hes since told us he doesnt want the debt to be reinstated. 
Based on this, Im not persuaded Mr P would have done anything differently if TSB had 
correctly told him that his account would be recorded as partially settled rather than fully 
settled on his credit file. I say this as I think its more important to him that he no longer owes 
TSB the balance given his health and the fact that he no longer owes this amount of money.
Its also worth clarifying that lenders are required to accurately report the status of their 
customers accounts to credit reference agencies. And, as Mr P hasnt fully settled his 
account with TSB and, despite the letter he has from branch saying its been fully settled, I 
think partially settled is a fair reflection of whats happened for the purposes of his credit file. 
This is also in line with guidance from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) on how 
lenders should record information to the credit reference agencies. These say that if a debt 
hasnt been repaid but the business has agreed it wont chase the customer for this, it will 
usually mark the credit file as partially settled. I appreciate Mr Ps said that other lenders whove written off his balances have marked 
these as fully settled on his credit file. But this doesnt mean TSB is required to do the same 
and Im not asking it to, for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Turning to the customer service Mr P received from TSB. Its already acknowledged this 
could have been better. And then, after incorrectly telling Mr P that his account would be 
marked as fully settled, TSB went on to incorrectly record it as defaulted. Mr Ps said this 
impacted on his application for a credit card limit increase. But given that businesses take 
several factors into account when deciding whether to give further lending, I cant fairly say 
that TSB was responsible for this.
That said, I do think that finding out his account had been defaulted would have 
understandably caused Mr P further concern and frustration though. And, while Ive taken 
into account TSBs comments, including that it doesnt think the default made any difference 
to Mr Ps unhappiness, this was a further mistake that caused him to have to get back in 
touch with TSB and us about his credit file again. It also clearly caused Mr P worry, during 
an already stressful time when hes unwell and was trying to sort out his finances as a result. 
I also recognise TSBs helped Mr P by writing off the balance of his account. But I dont think 
this process has been as straightforward or stress free for him as it would have if hed 
received better customer service and if TSB hadnt made the errors it did. 
So, to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P, I think TSB should pay 
him a further £275 compensation. Thats on top of the £125 its already paid to him (not 
including the £25 for call costs), taking total compensation to £400. I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr P a 
further £275 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman