DRN-3411297
The complaint
Mr I, as a director of M (a limited company), complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont 
refund payments he made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2021, Mr I was researching overseas financing on behalf of a client of M. He found a bank 
Ill refer to as C. He left his contact details with C and a few days later received a call from 
someone claiming to be an employee of C. After some discussion Mr I arranged financing for 
Ms client. Once the loan was approved, Mr I and Ms client were given access to an online 
portal, so they could see that the loan funds were available to withdraw.
As part of the discussions with C, the caller asked Mr I if hed be interested in a savings 
account. This account offered an interest rate of 18%. 
Mr I says based on accessing the online portal and seeing the loan funds were available for 
Ms client along with the documentation he received, he was satisfied that the investment 
was genuine and decided to invest the minimum which was $150,000USD. 
The payments were made via online banking from Ms account and were international 
payments sent in USD. Ive included them below, using the GBP value which debited Ms 
account:
Date Amount 
26/04/2021 £36,783.64
27/04/2021 £36,843.27
16/05/2021 £36,499.01
Mr I was given his own online access to view his portfolio, but after making the first payment, 
Mr I asked C why he couldnt see the funds credited to his portfolio. C told him the payment 
was being processed and he needed to continue with the payments. Mr I raised the same 
concern after each payment he made.
Mr I realised it was a scam when his client unsuccessfully attempted to withdraw the loan 
funds from C. 
Mr I contacted Lloyds on 17 May 2021 and asked them to recall the payments. Lloyds 
contacted the beneficiary bank on the same day. 
A few days later on the 20 May, Mr I called Lloyds and asked they cancel the recall process 
as he no longer wished to recall his funds.
Mr I then contacted Lloyds on 05 July 2021 to request they restart the recall process. Lloyds 
contacted the beneficiary bank later that day and received confirmation on 07 July 2021 that 
all of Ms funds had been withdrawn from the beneficiary account and no funds could be 
recovered. 
Mr I raised a complaint with Lloyds on Ms behalf, saying they hadnt done enough to protect 
Ms funds. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Is complaint saying the payments were in line with Ms normal 
account activity, so they hadnt failed in their duty of care. Lloyds also felt the rate of return 
offered on the savings account was too good to be true.
Mr I remained unhappy with Lloyds decision and raised a complaint with our service. 
An investigator looked into Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary, they felt the 
payments werent unusual enough, that Lloyds shouldve carried out any checks before 
releasing the payments. The investigator also felt that Lloyds did all they could to try and 
recover the funds.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators opinion as he still felt Lloyds failed in their duty of care 
and shouldve taken more action before releasing the payments. Mr I referred to previous 
payments hed made from Ms account that had been stopped because Lloyds had been 
concerned. So, the investigator arranged for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Before the case was passed to me, a senior investigator reviewed the file. Having done so 
they identified that payments Mr I made from Ms account, would be treated as a loan from 
M to Mr I. Because of that, Lloyds would not be liable to repay any funds to M. This didnt 
change the overall outcome the investigator had previously reached on the case, however it 
was a point we wanted to put to Mr I before a decision was issued.
We asked for Mr Is response in relation to the new point we were raising, however he hasnt 
responded. As this point doesnt change the overall outcome, Ive proceeded with my 
decision based on the information we have available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Should Lloyds have intervened before processing the payments for M?
Ive first considered whether the payments were unusual enough, that I wouldve expected 
Lloyds to have intervened. 
After reviewing the previous activity on Ms account, I can see they made several high value 
payments before the scam, as well as international payments. For example, on 22 
December 2020, four months prior to the scam payments, there was an international 
payment of over £44,000. There had also been several faster payments made for just under 
£20,000. 
I appreciate that the scam payments were made to a new payee and totalled over £100,000, 
but they were made days apart  with the last payment made a couple of weeks after the previous one.  Having considered all of the payments individually and collectively, Im not 
persuaded they were unusual enough that I wouldve expected intervention from Lloyds prior 
to their release to the beneficiary bank.
Mr I has raised a point about a previous payment flagging with Lloyds, which resulted in 
Lloyds contacting Mr I before releasing the payment. However, the fact that a previous 
payment was flagged by Lloyds, doesnt mean that these payments shouldve. Account 
activity can change which may mean that a payment which previously may have flagged, 
wouldnt at a later date. In this case, I have to take into account the specifics of the scam 
payments made from Ms account and the previous account activity in the prior months. 
Having done so, Im not satisfied that these three payments shouldve caused Lloyds 
concern or resulted in their intervention prior to releasing the payments.
Ive then gone on to consider whether we would consider Ms funds to be a loan to Mr I. 
Is there any other reason Lloyds should refund M?
It isnt in dispute that Mr I used some of Ms funds to make a personal investment. In cases 
like this, where a company's funds are used by an authorised individual like Mr I, we wouldn't 
expect the bank to cover any loss that arises as a result of the payments in question.
By withdrawing the funds from Ms account, the withdrawn funds would be treated as a loan 
to Mr I by M. So rather than being owed the sum by Lloyds, we would say that M is owed the 
sum by Mr I as hed used the funds in his capacity as an individual. This is important 
because even if I said the payments should have warranted intervention by Lloyds, M still 
wouldnt be entitled to a refund from Lloyds as Mr I is responsible for repaying M.
Finally, Ive considered whether Lloyds took the appropriate action once Mr I had made them 
aware that hed fallen victim to a scam.
From what Ive seen Lloyds contacted the receiving bank promptly on becoming aware of 
the scam. Unfortunately, by the time Mr I had raised the dispute for the second time, the 
funds had been removed from the beneficiary account. Also, its worth noting that banks 
based outside the UK are not subject to our rules and regulations, and Lloyds is unable to 
force or require the beneficiary bank to return the funds. In this case, the beneficiary bank 
says no funds could be recovered, so I cant say that Lloyds couldve done any more to 
recover Ms funds.
I realise that Mr I is going to be disappointed, but I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund M for the 
payments they made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman