DRN-3764216
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ulster Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
On 4 October 2022 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I gave both parties an 
opportunity to respond with further information before I issued my final decision. That 
provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below. 
What happened
Mr M had an interest in cryptocurrency. In mid-2019 he was contacted by someone 
claiming to represent an investment company. Unfortunately for Mr M, he was actually 
dealing with fraudsters.
Mr M decided to invest and, in order to fund his investment, he was instructed to make 
card payments to well-known money remittance services. Over the following months the 
amounts of the payments increased, and Mr M sent faster payments from his online 
banking to a variety of different recipients. It is not entirely clear whether the initial card 
payments went to the same recipient and are part of the same scam as the later faster 
payments, but Mr M has only disputed two of the card payments he made.
At first, Mr Ms investment appeared to be doing well and he even received a sum back 
from the fraudsters. He could see the investments performance through a trading 
platform which he was given access to. Later the fraudster told Mr M that if he invested 
£50,000, hed receive the same amount back and £50,000 worth of cryptocurrency in just 
one week. Mr M borrowed money from a relative to continue investing but, at the end of 
the week, his account manager said hed need to pay money in order to withdraw his 
investment. And, after Mr M made a final payment, the account manager called him to say 
that theyd been arrested. At this point, Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam. In 
total Mr M says he lost £78,670. He also persuaded other family members to get involved 
in the scheme and, unfortunately, they also lost money.
The faster payments Mr M made went to a number of other financial or cryptocurrency 
related businesses. Mr M says he gave remote access to his computer to the 
representative of the investment company and they guided him through much of the 
process of converting his money into cryptocurrency and sending it to the trading 
platform. He also says that, on occasion, the fraudsters would carry out transactions 
themselves, without any involvement from him.
The payments Mr M disputes are set out below:
Payment number Date Amount Payee
1 26 August 2019 £1,585 1 (card payment)
2 3 September 2019 £1,585 1 (card payment)
3 11 September 2019 £5,500 2
23 September 2019 £49,994 (credit)
4 24 September 2019 £20,000 3
5 25 September 2019 £10,000 4
6 25 September 2019 £10,000 5
7 26 September 2019 £10,000 5
15 October 2019 17,994 (credit)
8 15 October 2019 £20,000 6 (Mr Ms relative)
His account at Ulster Bank had only been opened a month before he sent the first 
disputed payment and, I understand, the only debits that took place on it were related to 
the fraud. After a review of the account, Ulster Bank decided to close Mr Ms account 
and it did so in March 2020.
In May 2020, after several months of trying to reach the fraudster and recover his funds, 
Mr M complained to Ulster Bank about falling victim to a scam. It said that he had willingly 
made the payments and its attempts to recover his money had been unsuccessful  so it 
wasnt going to provide a refund.
It also questioned whether it could be held responsible for the loss at all, as none of the 
payments Mr M made appear to have gone directly to the fraudulent investment 
company. Instead, the payments went through several intermediaries.
Mr M referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators upheld his complaint. 
They argued that Ulster Bank ought to have found almost all of the activity on Mr Ms 
account to be unusual and suspicious given the significant sums involved and the fact the 
payments went to various cryptocurrency providers. So, in their view, it should have 
intervened when Mr M made the first faster payment from his account of £5,500 and, had 
it done so, the scam would have been prevented. They noted that the account had been 
closed because Ulster Bank had concerns about the way it was being operated, albeit 
later than the disputed activity, and they thought Ulster Bank should have shown concern 
earlier.
They also didnt think it would be fair for Mr M to take a share of the blame, given the 
sophisticated nature of the scam. So, the investigator recommended that Ulster Bank pay 
Mr M £75,500.
Ulster Bank disagreed, in summary it said:
-It was satisfied Mr M had authorised all of the payments.
-It would be reasonable to expect Mr M to have conducted some research 
into the investment opportunity.
-It questioned whether an intervention would have made a difference if the 
fraudster had control of Mr Ms accounts.
-It disputes that payments to cryptocurrency providers are necessarily higher risk 
than any others and argues that the vast majority of such payments are 
legitimate.
-It denies that its later concerns about the way the account was being run meant 
it should have recognised Mr M was at risk of financial harm from fraud at the 
time the
payments were made.
-While it follows good industry practice, it did not have any concerns about the 
activity which took place on Mr Ms account. It would not be practical, nor is it a useful indicator of fraud, to simply block all high value payments.
-It questioned whether there is any evidence that a verbal conversation is 
more effective at preventing scams than a written warning.
-It would never have been able to recover the funds as they went to 
cryptocurrency accounts in Mr Ms name.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered authorisation. The starting position, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms of Mr Ms account, is that he is responsible for 
transactions he has authorised.
Given that the fraudsters, at times, had control of Mr Ms computer, theres some 
uncertainty about whether he authorised each and every transaction from his bank 
account. But, even if Mr M didnt actually carry out each transaction, its evident that he 
either consented to them taking place or consented to the third party having control of his 
accounts given that, at the time, he was willingly investing his money into the scheme. Mr 
M says he did not share his online banking security information so that a third party could 
access his account without him being present. So, Im satisfied the disputed transactions 
were authorised and Ive gone onto consider whether there is any other reason for Ulster 
Bank to refund Mr M.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code requires 
its signatories to reimburse victims of APP scams like this one in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. However, having considered this matter carefully, it seems to me that 
the CRM Code does not apply to the payments Mr M made. Though, its important to 
note, its not exactly clear what happened to each and every payment, so Ive reached 
this finding on the balance of probabilities.
In total Mr M disputes eight different payments, which went to six different beneficiaries. 
Ive considered each payment in turn.
For the provisions of the CRM Code to apply, a payment must (among other less 
relevant conditions):
-Be a faster payment, CHAPS payment or payment between two accounts 
at the same bank that would otherwise be a faster payment.
-Be sent to another person.
-Be between pound sterling denominated accounts in the U.K.
The first and second payments are card payments and therefore not covered under the 
CRM Code. As the payments were to a genuine business which will have carried out a 
service for Mr M (the transfer of money), there would have been no grounds for Ulster 
Bank to challenge the payments through the chargeback scheme either.
It appears that payments three and four went to two different cryptocurrency trading 
businesses, but not ones that allow a customer to operate an account which holds 
electronic money or cryptocurrency. Instead, they seem to offer simple exchange 
functionality. Its likely therefore that Mr M (or the fraudster on his behalf) simply purchased cryptocurrency and instructed the respective businesses to send it to a 
cryptocurrency wallet they had control over. Assuming this is correct, I do not consider 
these payments to be caught by the CRM Code. Thats because although the payment 
from Mr Ms bank account to the cryptocurrency exchange meets the definition above, the 
payment from the cryptocurrency exchange to the cryptocurrency wallet, does not. That 
payment was a payment in cryptocurrency, not pound sterling.
Ive reviewed evidence that the fifth payment went to an account in Mr Ms name. He says 
he didnt set up or have access to this account. But Im not entirely convinced by this. The 
business which provided the account say it was set up in June 2019  several months 
before Mr M made the £10,000 deposit to the account. That business says that Mr M even 
contacted it to query a £2 deposit in early July 2019 and that the device used for all the 
activity (including the disputed activity) is the same. I also note Mr Ms comments about 
allowing a third party to access his device during some of the activity. The fact his device 
appears to have remained the same before and after the disputed activity would be 
consistent with this account of events. Overall, it seems more likely than not that this was 
an account that Mr M set up and it can fairly be considered as his own account. As such, 
the CRM Code does not apply to the fifth transaction as the payment didnt go to another 
person.
There isnt the same evidence around payments six and seven, but they do go to a 
business which appears to offer both a pure exchange service (like the recipients of 
payments three and four) and the provision of a cryptocurrency account. In either case I 
dont think the payments are covered by the CRM Code, as its more likely than not that 
Mr Ms money would have been received by the fraudster in cryptocurrency, not pound 
sterling.
The final payment went to a relative of Mr M. She was also a victim of the same fraud. It 
appears that this money went from Mr Ms relatives account to the same payee as 
payment three (or, at least, a business offering very similar services) and was sent there 
with his agreement. Im satisfied this payment formed part of the scam that Mr M fell 
victim to.
However, I dont think this payment is covered by the CRM Code either  though the 
transaction from Mr Ms account to his relative and the relatives subsequent payment to 
the cryptocurrency exchange do satisfy the conditions of the CRM Code, the final 
payment from the cryptocurrency exchange to the fraudster does not  it was a payment 
in cryptocurrency not pound sterling.
So, Im satisfied that the CRM doesnt apply here. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Ulster Bank should fairly and 
reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which payment service providers are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This was a new account, opened largely, if not exclusively, for the purpose of investing in 
what turned out to be a fraudulent scheme. As such, theres little genuine account activity 
to compare the fraudulent payments against. In fact, apart from credits to the account, 
the spending is only fraud related. It begins with payments to money remittance services 
and ends with a series of faster payments to various different financial or cryptocurrency 
related businesses.
So, Im mindful that Ulster Bank would not have had any meaningful previous account 
activity to compare the spending against and Ive taken this into account when deciding 
whether it should have found the activity suspicious. Nevertheless, I think, by a certain 
point, the way in which the account was being used ought to have concerned Ulster Bank.
The only activity on the account prior to the payments in dispute were payments to money 
remittance firms. I wouldnt have expected Ulster Bank to have questioned Mr M about 
these payments  they were of a relatively modest value. And, though Mr M only appears 
to be disputing the two most recent payments of this type, my view would be the same if 
he disputed the earlier ones too. Though I dont think this activity was suspicious enough 
for Ulster Bank to be concerned, I suspect that the activity of opening an account only to 
use it to make this kind of payment is quite unusual. What followed was a significant credit 
to the account and a series of high value payments to various different payees.
Ulster Bank argues that it isnt fair to point to its later concerns about how the account 
was being used as evidence that it did, or should have had, concerns about the account 
at the time. I accept that its later decision to close his account was made for other 
reasons. But, that doesnt mean it shouldnt have considered whether Mr M was at risk 
of financial harm from fraud when the payments were being made.
I also dont dispute that there are many legitimate payments made to cryptocurrency 
providers, but Ulster Bank would have been aware of the risks of cryptocurrency scams 
since at least January 2019, including their common features. Its not clear whether 
Ulster Bank did know where all of these payments were going (as Ive set out above  
its been quite difficult for me to establish), but I certainly cant agree that if it did, this 
should have provided it with reassurance.
Taking all of the above into account, though I do think Ulster Bank should have intervened 
here, Ive reached a different finding to that of the investigator about when that 
intervention should have taken place. I dont think, given the very limited account history, 
that Ulster Bank could have reasonably suspected fraud in relation to the £5,500 
payment. Neither, I think, should it have stopped the £20,000 or first £10,000 payment. 
While they were clearly significant amounts, I dont think their size alone makes them 
sufficiently remarkable, taking into account the fact that Ulster Bank wouldnt have had 
much of a picture of what was unusual for Mr M. However, by the time the second 
£10,000 payment was attempted it should have been clear to Ulster Bank that the 
account wasnt being used in a typical fashion. There were no regular credits or debits to 
the account and the large credit of almost £50,000 was being removed from the account 
in a series of relatively rapid payments.
So, despite the fact that Ulster Bank could not have a good understanding of what Mr 
Ms typical account usage was, I think that when he made the second £10,000 payment 
a concerning enough pattern had developed that it ought to have intervened. While its concerns might not have been solely about whether Mr M was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud, a conversation would have quickly established that there was risk to him.
Ulster Bank says it provided a written warning to Mr M before he made each payment, but 
I dont think that was enough of an intervention in the circumstances. Also, from its 
records, its not entirely clear which warning it gave. Customers were required to choose a 
payment reason for each payment, but I cant see from Ulster Banks records which 
payment reason Mr M chose. But, even if Mr M did choose investment and was provided 
with the warning tailored to investments, I dont think this was sufficient in the 
circumstances. It wasnt tailored to the specific risk of cryptocurrency scams and didnt 
highlight any of the common features. So, I think Ulster Bank ought to have done more 
and contacted Mr M about the second £10,000 transaction. Inevitably its very difficult to 
know what would have happened had Mr M been contacted at the time and asked a few 
questions about the activity he was carrying out. But I think its likely that he would have 
revealed:
-His lack of understanding of exactly where the transactions were going and for 
what purpose.
-He was being directed to make the payments by a third party who had, at 
points, taken control of his computer.
-Hed also made payments to a third party via a money remittance service.
-Hed been promised an instant 100% return, if he invested £50,000.
-Hed been encouraged to borrow money in order to keep investing.
-He was dealing with an unregulated investment company.
Even if only some of the above was revealed by Mr M, I think it should have given 
Ulster Bank significant cause for concern and would have put them in a position to 
give a very strong warning to Mr M that he was falling victim to a scam.
Im mindful that Mr M had already invested a significant sum at this point, but Ive not seen 
any compelling evidence that he would have carried on regardless of any warning 
provided by the bank. In any case, I think that a conversation would have likely caused 
Ulster Bank so much concern that it may have had reasonable grounds to prevent Mr M 
from carrying out further transactions.
I cant agree that such an intervention would have been any less effective because the 
fraudsters may have been in control of Mr Ms computer at the time the payment was 
made. Ulster Bank would have spoken to Mr M, not the fraudsters and it would have been 
able to take all necessary steps to secure his online banking.
So, I think Ulster Banks failure to pick up on the unusual activity has caused Mr M loss.
Ive also thought about the role Mr M had to play in what happened. There were clearly 
relatively sophisticated elements of this scam  including the provision of a trading 
account that appeared to show the status of his investment. Im also conscious that Mr 
M has little investment experience and I think he, as well as someone with his 
knowledge and experience, would be less able to pick up on the concerning aspects of 
what unfolded. Ive also seen some paperwork, including in relation to the supposed 
£100,000 that Mr M was due to receive, and it appears relatively convincing.
However, there are aspects of what happened which I think should have concerned Mr M. 
I understand he was told that the fraudulent investment company were running a 
promotion which would mean for a £50,000 investment, he would receive £100,000 back in just a week. While I understand he could see this amount in his account at the trading 
platform, its not clear that Mr M questioned how or why the fraudulent investment 
company would give him this money and, Im afraid, such an offer seems to be good to be 
true.
Its also clear that Mr M, rather than asking for his £100,000 back at the end of that week, 
instead invested more money. It also appears Mr M may have been told he needed to 
invest more money to get back his profits. I think these factors should have been 
significant red flags for Mr M and, though I understand hes likely to have been put under 
a lot of pressure by the fraudsters, I dont think it was reasonable for him to keep making 
payments.
So, I think that by the time he made the second £10,000 payment, hed been presented 
with an offer that was simply too good to be true. That means I think that a deduction of 
50% should be made from the refund Mr M receives.
To be clear, while I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M, I am recommending that 
Ulster Bank pay him 50% of payments 6 and 7  a total of £10,000. Ive excluded the final 
payment because it was sent to Mr Ms relative and has already been considered as part 
of a separate complaint. In relation to interest, I understand the money used for these 
transactions was borrowed from a family member and Mr M was not charged interest on 
that loan. So, I dont award any interest.
Ive also thought about whether Ulster Bank could have recovered Mr Ms funds, but I 
dont think this would be possible. Mr Ms money was either sent directly to the fraudster 
and likely collected in cash (as in the case of the money remittance transactions) or sent 
to an intermediary before being exchanged into cryptocurrency and sent to the fraudster 
(in the case of the other transactions). It follows that we know that the businesses involved 
dont hold Mr Ms money and neither Ulster Bank nor the intermediaries would have any 
way of recovering it.
Finally, I thought about compensation. While I recognise the significant impact being 
without this money has had on Mr M, I have not found that the bank is fully, or even 
mostly, responsible for his loss. That also means that I cannot say the majority of the 
distress and inconvenience is the fault of the bank either. Taking this into account, I think 
Ulster Bank should pay £100 to Mr M to recognise the role its had in what happened.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold in part this complaint about Ulster Bank Ltd and ask it to pay Mr M:
- £10,000
- £100 compensation
Ulster Bank accepted my provisional decision. Mr M did not. He explained that the outcome 
would be devastating for him and his family. In summary, he also argued:
- The fraudster used sophisticated techniques to initially entice him and then keep 
him depositing more funds. He was first given the impression that there was no 
risk, but later he was told he had to keep depositing more money to save his 
investment. 
- Had Ulster Bank contacted him during the fraud he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the payments, but theres no evidence the bank did this or provided any warnings 
to him. Hed like proof that warnings were displayed.- The first large payment of £5,000 should have been the point at which it 
intervened.
- Ulster Bank made no attempt to recover his funds. 
- The CRM Code is applicable here and it says firms should refund customers, like 
him, who were vulnerable to fraud.
- The bank ought to have challenged the payments through the chargeback scheme. 
- The Banking Protocol hasnt been considered.
- My provisional decision isnt consistent with other decisions issued by our service, 
several examples of which he has provided. Neither is it consistent with case 
studies published on our website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mr M. I 
dont wish to cause him any further distress  but I must give my decision based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable, taking into account all of the evidence.
Ive considered Mr Ms submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach a different 
outcome to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I set out in my provisional decision why the CRM Code does not apply to any of the 
payments made. Though Mr M has argued that his position would be different under the 
CRM Code, he hasnt provided any arguments as to why that code applies. Im satisfied it 
doesnt for the reasons Ive already outlined, so I wont comment on this further. 
In addition, the Banking Protocol only applies to payments made in branch. Similarly, the 
chargeback scheme only applies to card payments and Ive already explained why a 
chargeback wouldnt be successful for the two card payments in dispute. In relation to the 
recovery of funds, Ive already set out why I dont think this would have been possible in the 
circumstances. 
I agree that the bank had obligations to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. Ive explained that I think it failed in those obligations and should have 
intervened before allowing some of the payments to proceed. Ive also explained that I think 
that a conversation with Mr M would have made a difference to his decision to keep 
investing and prevented any further loss to him. And, Ive also set out that theres no clear 
evidence any warnings were provided, but, even if they were, I dont think this would have 
been sufficient in the circumstances. So, much of what Mr M argues isnt really in dispute. 
I think there are only two remaining points of actual disagreement that I can comment further 
on: the point at which Ulster Bank should have intervened and whether Mr M should bear 
any responsibility for the loss.
Ive already explained why I think the intervention should have taken place when it did and 
not earlier. Ive had to carefully balance the fact that Ulster Bank had no meaningful account 
activity to compare the fraudulent transactions against with the fact that the value and 
frequency of the payments should have given it cause for concern. Im afraid theres little 
more that I can add to this point. I cannot comment on other decisions issued by our service 
and Ive decided this case on its own merits.  
Finally, I do accept the sophisticated aspects of the fraud and the pressure that Mr M was 
put under. I accept that he had little investment experience and that this fact was exploited by the fraudsters. Nevertheless, I cannot agree that it was reasonable for him to believe that 
his money would be doubled, seemingly without any risk, in just a week. So, I continue to be 
of the view that a 50% deduction is fair.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but my final decision remains unchanged from my provisional 
findings. 
 
My final decision
I uphold in part this complaint about Ulster Bank Ltd and instruct it to pay Mr M:
- £10,000
- £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman