DRN-1921751
The complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Ireland UK (UK) Plc, trading as the Post Office will not refund some 
disputed transactions from his late mothers account.  He brings this complaint on behalf of 
her estate.
The Post Office say the complaint was brought to them outside of the prescribed time scales 
and so, it cannot consider the merits.
What happened
Mr Js complaint is about transactions on his mothers account which happened between 
December 2012 and April 2013.  He said at the time, his mother was unwell and vulnerable 
and knew nothing about the withdrawals being made from her account  just over £10,000 in 
total.
In April 2013 she was admitted to a care home and sadly passed away in August 2019.
Mr J says he first noticed the transactions on his mothers account in 2016 when a statement 
was sent to her showing she only had 12p left in her account.  He tried to register a 
complaint on her behalf but was told by the Post Office that he would need an authority to 
act on her behalf before it could take his instructions.  
The next time Mr J raised the complaint was in August 2019.
By way of its final response letter in October 2019, the Post Office said it could not look into 
Mr Js complaint.  It said the transactions had been raised more than 13 months after they 
had taken place and so, this complaint was now a police matter and it would assist where 
required.  It didnt explain why the time limit of 13 months applied.
So, Mr J brought his complaint to this service where our investigator looked into matters for 
him.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask the Post Office to do anymore.  He did explain to 
Mr J why 13 months was relevant - and he referred Mr J the relevant rules and the terms 
and conditions of his late mothers account.
But M J made further representations about the merits of his complaint and asked that an 
ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, I dont think I can fairly say the Post Office has done anything wrong in how it 
has dealt with Mr Js complaint.
I know Mr J feels strongly about the merits of his complaint and the fact that his mother could 
not have authorised the transactions which he highlights.  However, I wont be looking into 
whether they were authorised  because I think Mr J complained outside of the time limits 
set down.
The investigator has already explained that the relevant rules applicable in this case are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009.  At Regulation 59, they say:
Notification of unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment transactions. 
59.(1) A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 61, 75, 76 or 77 only if it 
notifies the payment service provider without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 
months
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed
payment transaction.
So, Mr J was expected to have raised the disputed transactions by, at the very latest, 
February 2014.  He didnt.  the first time he attempted to raise them was 2016  by which 
time the PSRs say he was already out of time.
However, I think it is only fair and reasonable for the Post Office to enforce these time limits 
if it tells its customers about it in the terms and conditions of their account.  In this case, I 
have seen the relevant terms and conditions and note the time limit is referred to at 
paragraph 5.7.
Whilst I have not considered whether the late Mrs J authorised these transactions, I have 
taken note of the health assessment report which Mr J refers to in his submissions.  It very 
helpfully gives an overview of his mothers physical and mental health before and during the 
time of the disputed transactions.  
The report confirms the late Mrs Js diagnosis of vascular dementia and describes how she 
needs to be assisted in with her mobility - but I couldnt see anything in the report which 
would suggest to me that she might have lacked the capacity to authorise someone else to 
make these withdrawals on her behalf.  As I say, I have not considered the merits in any 
detail  my decision focuses on whether the Post Office can consider Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman