DRN-3880135
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a Breakdown 
Cover Pack in February 2022.
What happened
Mr W chose to add a Breakdown Cover Pack to his bank account to replace his existing 
breakdown cover in February 2022.
In March 2022, unfortunately Mr Ws car broke down. However, when he went to claim on 
the breakdown cover, he discovered that there was a 10-mile tow limit. And as he was a long 
way from home, he wanted to get his car towed home rather than to a garage many miles 
away from where he lives.
Mr W complained to Barclays about being sold the pack as he assumed that the breakdown 
cover provided the same level of cover as his existing policy. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Pack had been 
mis-sold either. As Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything Im unable 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I have first considered whether the Breakdown Cover Pack was sold on an advised, or non-
advised basis. And based on what Mr W and Barclays have said, I think that it was sold on a 
non-advised basis. I say this as Ive not seen anything to suggest that the product was 
recommended to Mr W  or that Barclays had assessed Mr Ws needs and made a 
personalised recommendation. For example, simply asking Mr W if he would be interested in 
taking out the Breakdown Cover Pack would not amount to it being an advised sale.
As I think the Pack was sold on a non-advised basis, this means that Barclays was not 
obliged to check whether the product was right for Mr Ws circumstances, or to check 
whether the levels of cover it provided meet Mr Ws specific needs.
However, Barclays was required to give Mr W clear, fair and not mis-leading information 
about the policy to ensure that he understood what he was agreeing to. This was so that he 
could decide for himself whether the level of cover was suitable.
I note that Mr W says he assumed that the cover provided by Barclays was on a like-for-like 
basis. However, although both policies happened to be provided by the same insurer, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that Barclays had actually said anything to imply that was the 
case, or done anything to suggest the Pack provided more cover than it actually did. 
For example, although it was noticed by the Barclays member of staff that Mr W was already 
paying for breakdown cover, that person had no way of knowing what level of cover he 
already had  as Mr W had arranged that cover directly with the breakdown provider, rather 
than through Barclays. And from everything that Mr W has said, Ive not seen anything that 
suggests Mr W actually told Barclays what level of cover was included in his existing policy. 
Indeed, I can see that Barclays provides other Packs that do provide comprehensive, rather 
than basic, levels of breakdown cover. So had Mr W made Barclays aware that he needed 
comprehensive cover, then I think its likely that Barclays wouldve sold him the other Pack. 
As well as considering what mayve been discussed, I also considered what documentation 
Mr W was provided with. And I can see documents generated by Barclays when the product 
was sold to Mr W includes a statement of demands and needs document. And in this 
document, it says:
You need your broken down vehicle to be repaired or taken to a garage or a destination 
within 10 miles from your breakdown location In the UK
This document also included an Insurance Product Information Document  which 
summarised the key information about the policy. And this again made it clear that cover 
would only include recovery to a garage or destination within 10 miles of where the vehicle 
has broken down. I can also see that after Mr W agreed to take out the pack, he was then 
sent a welcome pack, this included the policy terms and conditions that again explained that 
vehicles would only be taken to a location within 10 miles.
So based on everything that has been provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Barclays incorrectly told Mr W that the policy provided the same level of cover as his existing 
policy. I say this especially as Barclays didnt know and wasnt told what level of cover Mr W 
already had in place. And Im satisfied that all the documentation Mr W was provided with 
did make it clear that there was a 10-mile tow limit.
I appreciate that Mr W assumed that the cover would be the same, perhaps because the 
polices were from the same provider. And I understand that Mr W may not have read the 
documentation that he was provided with, as he says he mayve thrown it away with junk 
mail. But I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for either of these things. Ultimately, I 
think Barclays provided Mr W with enough information to make it clear that there was a 10-
mile tow limit applicable to the policy. 
As such, whilst Im sorry to hear about the unfortunate circumstances Mr W found himself in, 
and the added expenditure he had to pay to recover his vehicle, I cant say that Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman