DRN-2648239
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs B complain through their representative, a claims management company 
(CMC), that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited gave them unsuitable investment advice. 
What happened
 The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont go over it in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
In March 2002 Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest around £40,000 into an AXA Sun 
Life Flexible Bond
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs B were aged 57 and 52 and have said they were 
first time investors
Mr B had recently been made redundant and Mrs B was a part-time teaching 
assistant
Theyve said they had between £45,000 and £50,000 in cash assets, of which 
£30,000 came from Mr Bs redundancy payment and £15,000.00 from an inheritance
Theyve said that their main objective at the time was to receive an income from their 
money, so they opted to receive £166 per month from the bond
They surrendered the bond in 2003 for around £31,000 as they wanted to clear their 
mortgage and install a conservatory
The CMC complained on their behalf to Aviva in 2019 but Aviva thought the 
complaint had been made too late
The CMC then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators
The investigator thought the complaint had been made in time. Aviva accepted his 
findings, so he then considered the merits of the complaint. He thought the complaint 
should be upheld and explained that after considering Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances 
at the time, he thought theyd been advised to take too much risk and invest too 
much of their available capital
Aviva didnt accept his findings, they thought that aside from Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollections from the time  some 18 years ago  there was no evidence of the 
discussions that Mr and Mrs B would have had with their adviser. So, they were 
unable to assess key drivers of the advice that was given - such as previous 
investment experience, what Mr and Mrs B said to the adviser about their 
circumstances at the time, how much risk they were prepared to take and other 
factors. In the absence of any evidence, they didnt think the investigators opinion 
was correct
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. But 
firstly, Id like to say that I take the points that Aviva have made about the lack of 
documentary evidence from the time. I appreciate that the sale was some 19 years ago, and 
Im fully aware that memories do fade over time. However, Mr and Mrs Bs testimony is 
evidence which needs to be carefully considered and assessed. And in this case, on 
balance, it has been backed up by other evidence that has been made available to me.
Mr and Mrs B have provided further evidence of their circumstances at the time. Theyve 
submitted documents showing that Mr B was made redundant in late 2001 and he received 
a lump sum retirement grant of around £42,000 and an annual pension of around £11,000. 
They also evidenced that they had an outstanding mortgage of c.£21,000 which they repaid 
in February 2002  before they received the advice to invest in the bond. 
So, from the evidence we now have, we can see that Mr and Mrs B had around £42,000 
from Mr Bs redundancy payment and theyve also said that they received £15,000 from an 
inheritance. So, I think its fair to say they had at least £60,000 in available capital before 
clearing their mortgage in February 2002 as they paid off their mortgage of £20,000 and then 
invested £40,000 in the flexible bond. 
I think its important to note that they chose to take the maximum amount of tax-free income 
they could from the bond. I think this shows that they had a real need for income at the time. 
They also chose to surrender the bond after only a year which I think shows that they were 
advised to invest too much of their available capital.  
Having considered their circumstances, Im not persuaded that they should have been 
advised to invest £40,000 in the flexible bond  despite having cleared their mortgage. I 
agree with the investigator that an investment of £20,000 would have been appropriate for 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. This would have left them with at least £20,000 
available capital for emergencies and unforeseen expenditure at a time when they were still 
getting used to the changes in their lifestyle brought about by Mr Bs redundancy.
I also agree with the investigators opinion that the recommended fund was too risky for Mr 
and Mrs B. I havent been able to see the make up of the fund from the time, but recent 
documentation shows that it is a medium risk fund. I dont think its reasonable to assume 
that the fund had the same composition in 2002 as it does now, but I think its likely that it 
had broadly the same aims and risk profile. 
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, I dont think a medium level of risk was 
suitable. I say this as they would have had a limited capacity to replenish any large losses. I 
also dont think that Mr and Mrs B as inexperienced investors would have understood the 
implications of taking a medium level of risk. I think they were prepared to take some risk, 
but a medium level of risk was simply too high for them at the time.
In summary, having considered all the available evidence, I think the recommendation was 
unsuitable. I agree with the investigators opinion that Mr and Mrs B should only have been 
advised to invest £20,000 and at a lower level of risk. Putting things right
 Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs B as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
Calculation 1
What must Aviva do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Aviva should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
AXA Sun 
Life Flexible 
Bond - 
based on a 
£20,000 
investmentNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Aviva should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Aviva should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Aviva totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs B wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs B into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs B would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs B could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
Calculation 2
To compensate Mr and Mrs B fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Aviva should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
AXA Sun 
Life Flexible 
Bond - 
based on a 
£20,000 
investmentNo longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementActual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Aviva should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Aviva should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Aviva totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and Mrs 
B's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs B would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above in calculation one and two. Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr and Mrs B in a clear, simple 
format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman