DRN-3441797
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt make it clear an arrangement to
reduce his overdraft limit would negatively impact his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M has an account with Nationwide that had an overdraft limit of £5,000. In April 2017 
Nationwide wrote to Mr M to say it was reducing his overdraft limit to £2,000 and asked him 
to get in touch. Mr M called Nationwide and discussed his options.
During Mr Ms call, he agreed to an arrangement whereby his overdraft limit reduced by
£250 for 12 months. The call handler advised the arrangement would show as an A flag 
on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M asked the call handler if the arrangement would negatively 
impact his credit. The call handler said each lender considers applications separately and 
that the arrangement would merely be reported to flag Mr M was working with Nationwide 
to repay his overdraft.
Last year, Mr M complained to Nationwide after a mortgage application was declined. Mr M 
has explained the lender took its decision because of the arrangement Nationwide 
reported. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide shouldve made it clearer to Mr M that the arrangement could have a 
negative impact to his credit file and asked it to pay him £100 for the distress caused. But 
the investigator didnt ask Nationwide to remove the arrangement.
Nationwide didnt agree. In its response, Nationwide said it isnt its responsibility to 
educate consumers on how their credit files work. As Nationwide didnt agree, Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms account statements for the period leading up to Nationwides letter in 
April 2017. Whilst Mr M was making full use of his £5,000 overdraft limit at various points, 
I think its also fair to say he was also in credit for much of the time. Ive reviewed Mr Ms 
statements and Im satisfied they dont paint a picture of someone experiencing financial 
difficulties. So whilst I understand overdrafts are repayable on demand and Nationwide 
acted in line with its terms by reducing the limit, I havent seen anything that shows the 
arrangement Mr M agreed was his only option.
Nationwides response to the investigator said it isnt its responsibility to educate its 
customers concerning how credit files work. I think that missed the point in this case and 
fails to recognise that Mr M is a private individual, not a bank or business. So I think Mr M 
could reasonably have expected clear, plain and easy to understand answers to the 
questions he asked.
Ive listened to Mr Ms call with Nationwide in April 2017. Im satisfied Mr M asked a very 
clear question. Mr M asked Does that impact negatively on my credit score then? The 
call handlers response gave background information about why an arrangement may be 
recorded. The call handler said the arrangement flag reflects that youre working along 
side us to reduce the balance but didnt say whether its considered to have a negative 
impact or not.
Mr M then asked whether the arrangement is considered in the same way as a missed 
payment and the call handler said it wouldnt. The call handler said it would be considered 
merely as an arrangement but didnt explain further.
Having listened to Mr Ms call with Nationwide, I think its call handler missed clear 
chances to provide important information concerning how an arrangement is recorded and 
considered. Whilst I wouldnt expect Nationwide to know exactly how arrangements are 
considered by all lenders, I think its fair to say that theyre often considered to have an 
adverse effect on someones ability to secure credit. Mr M specifically asked if there was a 
negative impact, but the call handler failed to answer that point and instead gave further 
detail about how the plan would be reported. I think clearer guidance shouldve been 
given.
Ive looked at Nationwides follow up letter sent in May 2017. It gave the following 
information: We will inform Credit Reference Agencies when accounts are in arrears. This 
could affect your credit rating and might make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in the 
future. However, well also tell them that weve come to an arrangement with you to repay 
your overdraft. Whilst I can see Nationwide did say it would tell the credit reference 
agencies about an arrangement to repay an overdraft, it only provides information 
concerning how arrears may impact a customers ability to secure credit in the future. 
Taken with the call Mr M had, Im satisfied he was unaware the arrangement could have a 
negative impact on his ability to secure further credit.
Im not persuaded the arrangement was Mr Ms only option. Had Nationwide given Mr M a 
clearer understanding of what an arrangement could mean for him, Im satisfied hed most 
likely have found another way to reduce the balance. For instance, I note that when 
Nationwide wrote to Mr M in May 2017 his balance was around £3,000 overdrawn. That 
meant he wouldve only needed to repay a further £1,000 to bring his account balance in 
line with the new overdraft limit. In my view, Mr M wouldnt have proceeded with the 
arrangement if it had been explained in a clearer way.
As Im satisfied Nationwide failed to clearly explain the implications of the arrangement 
and Im satisfied Mr M would most likely have found an alternative way to bring his 
balance down, I dont agree its fair for it to be recorded on his credit file. As a result, I 
intend to tell Nationwide to delete the arrangement its reported in 2017 and 2018 from Mr 
Ms credit file.
Mr M has told us the issue caused him to be rejected for a mortgage as well as a 
reasonable level of inconvenience. I also think its fair to say Mr M has experienced some 
frustration and distress in this case. So I also intend to increase the award for the distress 
and Inconvenience caused from £100 to £250. In my view, thats a fairer way to resolve this
complaint.I invited both parties to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before making my final decision. Nationwide confirmed its willing to accept. 
Mr M responded and said he was pleased Nationwide would remove the arrangement 
marker from his credit file but remained concerned that its actions led to difficulties obtaining 
a mortgage and higher interest rates. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for coming back to us. Mr M has raised concerns about the 
interest rates hes paid since the arrangement marker was added to his credit file. But I 
havent seen anything that shows Mr M paid more since 2017 as a result of Nationwides 
actions. As I said in my provisional decision, I understand a mortgage application didnt 
proceed. Ive factored that into the settlement and increased the compensation awarded. I 
increased the settlement from £100 to £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I still think thats the fairest way to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to remove 
the arrangement reported in 2017 and 2018 from Mr Ms credit file and pay him £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman