DRN-3457074
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) didnt pay her claim under her 
pet policy in full and up to the limit of the cover provided by her policy.
What happened
In August 2021, Mrs S dog required an operation to repair his cruciate ligament which cost 
in £4,057.28. So following the operation, Mrs S vet presented the claim to BBI.
Initially BBBI merely paid £281.79 of this claim as it said £3,685.49 wasnt itemised properly 
by the vet. The vet provided the requested itemisation and BBI then decided not to pay 
£874.00 of the costs of anaesthesia for the operation saying that should only be charged at 
£250.00 and it refused to pay £9.85 for the disposal of surgical waste.  Mrs S said BBI never 
discussed these deductions with her or with her vet. The vet history notes difficulty in 
communicating with BBI also.
Mrs S didnt think this was fair as the costs claimed were covered by her policy and BBI said 
it had assessed and accepted her claim. BBI wouldnt change its view. So, she brought her 
complaint to us. The investigator was of the view that the complaint should be upheld and 
that BBI should pay the remainder of the anaesthetic fees plus the surgical waste fees. And 
pay Mrs S £100.00 compensation.
BBI disagreed without detailing its reasons as to why, so Mrs S complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
In order to claim that something is not covered by the policy BBI has to show first that its 
clearly laid out in the policy terms and conditions that its not covered and secondly that by 
its underwriting guide it treats all policyholders the same in the same circumstances so that 
no one policyholder is singled out and treated unfairly. In other words, the guidance in the 
underwriting guide is applied to all policyholders in the same way. No underwriting guidelines 
have been disclosed to us by BBI.
So, BBI has not demonstrated any of above here. The policy terms and conditions clearly 
state Mrs S claim should be covered up to the maximum benefit level she has bought, which 
BBI has not done, sadly.
In the Mrs Ss schedule, her cover for vet is £4,000.00 per year, less the excess of £90.00.  
In the policy document this shows that Mrs S bought the Elite Extra and that treatment costs 
need to be supported by an original invoice from the vet. 
It says the following as regards vet fees that what is insured is Treatment by a Vet for 
Illness or Accidental Injury. The only relevant issues that are listed as not covered are if 
treatment costs are not supported by an original invoice from the vet, plus any claim not 
related to the to the treatment of an illness, including but not limited to consumables. 
Treatment is defined as including any consultations, examination, advice, tests, x-rays, 
slides, ultrasound and MRI, medication, surgery or nursing care that has taken place and 
been provided by a veterinary practice or qualified practitioner recommended by a Vet.
Under the general exclusions section at the end of the policy document, it says the following:
4. Vet Fees will only be paid if they are reasonable and essential for Your pets 
health and well-being. We may limit this to a maximum mark-up of 100% for 
medication and dispensing fees.
BBI initially didnt pay the vast bulk of the claim because it required an itemised breakdown 
of the fees from the vet. However, the policy doesnt explain that the vet needs to do this, the 
policy merely provides it requires an original vet invoice. Here, since the vet made the claim 
direct to BBI, there was no issue in my view that an original invoice from this vet wasnt 
presented by Mrs S vet in the original claim. So, I dont consider it was reasonable of BBI to 
demand an itemised invoice from the vet thereby delaying the claim and causing Mrs S 
distress and upset.
 
The deduction of the anaesthetic fees is not detailed in the policy at all, as quite obviously a 
dog requires anaesthesia in undergoing a cruciate ligament repair operation, and since no 
underwriting guide was made available to this service, there is nothing to show me that this 
decision to reduce the anaesthetic fees to a mere £250 from £874.00 is at all fair or 
reasonable. Nor does it show me that BBI are treating its customers fairly in line with the 
regulations under which it must operate as detailed by the regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority. BBI has a duty to not single out Mrs S and treat her any differently to anyone else. 
Here, it appears someone arbitrarily decided the anaesthetic fee was too high and decided 
even more arbitrarily to reduce it to yet another arbitrary figure of £250 without no evidence 
to back this up or to show me that Mrs S wasnt singled out unfairly, being disclosed to this 
service at all. I dont consider thats fair and reasonable and I consider these cost should be 
paid immediately and with interest. This has certainly caused Mrs S further distress and 
upset.
I find it inexplicable why BBI decided the consequent itemised cost of the disposal of surgical 
waste following a surgical procedure where the claim for this surgery was deemed accepted 
by BBI should also be excluded. This amounted to £9.85. There is no rationality or 
reasonableness in this decision at all, more so BBI produced no evidence to support this 
decision as it cant be classed as a consumable. In my view it simply served to show up 
BBIs lack of care in dealing with Mrs Ss confirmed and accepted claim in my opinion. It 
clearly forms part of the treatment this dog required as it came about as a result of the 
surgery this dog underwent. If such issues were to be routinely excluded, then I would 
expect the policy to clearly identify them, but it doesnt. Therefore, I consider that there is no 
mechanism detailed in the policy for this to be deducted and it should be paid immediately 
with interest. 
Further there is no mechanism in the policy document as to who decides what is 
reasonable treatment or indeed what a reasonable cost of any treatment should be. When 
there is such a lack of clarity, its a clear legal principle that  the benefit of any doubt must be 
given to the consumer and not the insurer, more so despite being asked, BBI was unable to 
detail any reasons for its decisions to reduce these costs of Mrs S claim other than some 
statistical research, which it didnt disclose. As the investigator mentioned when he looked 
at the average costs for the type of surgery required for Mrs S dog, those costs can range from £4,500.00 to £6,000. As Mrs S vet charged £4,057.28, theres no indication this vets 
charges were excessive in any way. 
The manner in which BBI dealt with Mrs S claim, more especially its lack of coherent 
reasoning for any deductions it made, has caused Mrs S an unacceptable level of distress 
and upset.  More so since BBI confirmed in writing that her claim was accepted. The 
investigator recommended BBI should pay Mrs S compensation in the sum of £100. And I 
agree with this.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that this complaint is upheld.
I now require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to do the following:
Pay the remainder of the anaesthetic fees to Mrs S vet in the sum of £624. Or if Mrs 
S has now paid her vet this cost, refund Mrs S this amount instead, adding interest of 
8% simple per year from the date Mrs S paid her vet to date it refunds her.
Pay the sum of £9.85 for the surgical waste cost to Mrs S vet. Or if Mrs S has now 
paid her vet this sum, refund this amount to Mrs S adding interest of 8% simple per 
year from the date Mrs S paid this amount to her vet to the date it refunds her. 
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Mrs S for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mrs S the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman