DRN-2510138
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he was given by Barclays Bank UK PLC, when he wanted 
to make a large transfer overseas.
What happened
Mr C told us about a series of mistakes that Barclays made, when he was trying to buy a
property overseas. Mr C said that he wasnt able to access his money, so he had to
withdraw his offer for the first property he wanted to buy. Mr C told us that he twice had to fly
back to the UK, because of mistakes that Barclays had made. He was angry that Barclays
had told him this was his fault, when it wasnt. He wanted Barclays to pay a very sizeable
amount of compensation.
Ill set out what happened, and when. Im drawing here on the complaint email that Mr C put
together with a member of Barclays staff, as well as the notes Barclays has supplied.
In August 2019, Mr C went into a branch. He asked about making a large transfer to his own
overseas account, while he was out of the country. Branch staff told him he could use
telephone banking to transfer £15,000 abroad, and £50,000 internally.
Mr C then travelled overseas, and tried to make a £15,000 transfer using telephone
banking. He then found out that the limit for transferring abroad using telephone banking was
only £5,000. He made that transfer and asked for a call back from Barclays to clarify the
amount and limit.
Barclays didnt call Mr C back, so he called it. He found out he could only transfer £15,000 to
a UK bank account if he was using telephone banking, not to the overseas account he
wanted to fund.
At this point, Barclays suggested a solution. It said that Mr C could use online banking,
which was already set up for him. That had higher transfer limits.
This advice was wrong, Mr C wasnt actually set up for internet banking. That caused a
considerable amount of additional problems, as Mr C continually tried to use a service he
wasnt actually set up for.
Mr Cs wife transferred £15,000 a day into his account so that he could move the money
overseas. But Mr C wasnt able to transfer this money using internet banking.
Mr C received various error codes when he tried to log in. So he called the helpdesk and got
varied answers on what the codes meant and how he could fix it. No one told him he wasnt
set up for online banking. Barclays made various suggestions. None of them worked. And Mr
C then had great difficulty in calling back each time, because of extremely high call volumes
at the time.
Mr C said he wasted three and a half days trying to get through. He was told the systems
were down several times.
Mr C changed his browser, that didnt help. Barclays suggested his phone was probably old,
so he changed that too, but that didnt help.
Nobody had realised that Mr C wasnt set up for internet banking, and the letter Mr C had
been sent with online banking as the title was actually his telephone banking membership
code.
Mr C wanted the money in his overseas account so he could buy a house. He said he had to
withdraw an offer he made on a property. Because he wasnt able to transfer money, he
didnt have the funds available locally to pay the deposit.
Mr C found another property, and this time he decided to fly back home to the UK to get the
deposit in cash. He went into the branch on 2 September 2019 to order €15,000 in cash. The
cashier accidentally only ordered €1,500.
When Mr C went back the next day, the mistake was discovered. The branch only had a
total of €10,000, so it couldnt pay Mr C what hed ordered.
The manager suggested they go to an exchange elsewhere in town. He accompanied Mr C.
The plan was to withdraw £5,000 from there, as that was the daily limit for the other local
exchange.
Whilst they were purchasing the currency the card got blocked by Barclays. They had to call
the fraud team to get the card unblocked. The manager was then able to withdraw cash for
Mr C and the purchase was then complete.
Mr C then went back overseas, after the branch manager assured him he could use online
banking, and would be able to transfer €50,000.
Mr C still couldnt use online banking. He flew back to the UK again, and on 3 October
2019 visited the branch. There he was finally told that he wasnt set up for online banking.
Mr C said he didnt want to be set up for online banking at this point, but he said the
cashier ordered him an online set up anyway. The assistant manager helped him log in
online to carry out a transfer of £5,000. But this transfer was blocked.
He then went back into the branch the next day to speak to the manager. The manager
called the fraud team and had his payment unblocked, and together they put through a
payment of £5,000 and one for £39,000.
Mr C said he didnt want the branch to make future transfers for him. He let the fraud team
know that he would be making further payments over the next two days. The fraud team
placed a marker on his account to allow large transfers and purchases over the next two
days.
Mr C then tried to make a payment of £50,000 online, but it didnt go through. So he went
back to the branch a third time (on this trip). The manager at the branch called the fraud
team and they advised that the payment hadnt been made.
It was during this visit that the branch realised that the letter Mr C had setting out his online
banking membership number was actually his telephone banking membership number, so
Barclays had made an error.
Mr C was angry that Barclays had repeatedly said he was doing something wrong with his
online banking account, when in fact it was Barclays that caused the error. Mr C said heddoubted himself, and also twice travelled back to the UK to sort this out.
Mr C said he was also told on the phone that he could not have a pin sent to him abroad and
that hed have to return to the UK to obtain a new one. But he has since found out that he
was able to get his pin sent to mobile banking, and he wasnt advised correctly about this.
Mr C said Barclays told him to go to the branch nearest to him overseas for help, but this
branch had been closed down for three years. He was then told to travel to the capital to get
help, but this was a four hour drive away, which is unreasonable.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said it was clear that Barclays
have made many mistakes in the advice it had given to Mr C. She felt this caused a great
deal of distress and inconvenience to Mr C, especially during the time when he was
purchasing a property, which is usually a stressful process without unnecessary mistakes
being made by his bank.
Our investigator said that the fraud team placed blocks on Mr Cs account for the safety of
Mr C, as the transactions were quite large. So she didnt think that the fraud team at
Barclays had done anything wrong.
Our investigator knew that Mr C had received a total of £445 in goodwill gestures prior to this
complaint, and had been offered a further £350, including £75 for the costs of his calls. But
she thought Barclays should increase its offer by another £250 to make a total of £600. She
didnt think Barclays had to pay for flights and hotels, as it was Mr Cs decision to travel to
the UK to sort out the issue.
Barclays agreed. But Mr C didnt. He said he had no option but to return to the UK, as he
couldnt make the transfers he needed by phone or by internet. If hed been given correct
information before he left the UK the first time, none of this wouldve been necessary.
Our investigator asked Mr C to supply details of costs, and he sent some further evidence.
She reconsidered. She said she couldnt ask Barclays to pay for Mr Cs first trip back to the
UK, because he couldnt show evidence of those costs. But she thought Barclays should pay
for the second trip. So she said shed ask Barclays to pay £600 in compensation, and
£553.55 in costs.
Barclays agreed to pay that. But Mr C didnt agree. He said he thought that Barclays should
pay all the costs hed told us about, not just those from the second trip. Mr C wanted his
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I can see that Barclays has made a number of mistakes in this case. Mr C left the UK
thinking that he would be able to make a large transfer to his overseas account. He 
wasnt able to do that. Mr C decided to return to the UK to sort this out. He travelled 
back twice.
Our investigator said that Barclays should only pay for the second trip, because Mr C 
didnt have the same sort of direct evidence of the costs of the first trip that he had for 
the second trip. I do think thats important. I think its important because without 
evidence of when this first trip back to the UK was booked, I cant tell if the only 
reason Mr C came back to the UK was to deal with this problem with his bank, or if 
he had other reasons to be here, and had booked this trip a long time ago.But even if Mr C had that evidence for the first trip, I would still say that it wouldnt be 
fair to ask Barclays to pay for this. Thats because I dont think that Mr Cs only option 
at the time was to return to the UK to sort this out. Barclays had suggested he could 
get help at a branch in the capital. Mr C said that was a four-hour drive, which wasnt 
reasonable. But theres also a train service from where he lives to the capital, and the 
journey would still be rather simpler, and considerably less expensive, than a flight 
back to the UK. So I dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to pay for the first 
trip. It hadnt agreed to cover those costs, and it had suggested something cheaper.
But by the time Mr C made his second trip back to the UK, I do think that Barclays 
had realised how Mr C was seeking to resolve problems  by coming back to the 
branch. And I note that Mr Cs bank manager reassured him before he ended his first 
trip that he would be able to use online banking. I think that Barclays does bear more 
responsibility for this  second trip back to the UK, and Im pleased to see that it has 
offered to pay the costs for this that our investigator identified.
Ive reached a very slightly different conclusion on what Barclays should pay, so Ill 
set that out here.
1 October 2019  flight back to UK, £135.82. Transfer, £52.23. (Costs 
evidenced by Mr Cs bank statement.)
1 October 2019  4 October 2019  hotel cost £136.30 (Cost evidenced by Mr 
Cs bank statement.)
5 October 2019  hotel, £97.20 (Costs evidenced by a receipt.)
6 October 2019  flight from UK, £131.99. (Cost evidenced by Mr Cs bank 
statement.)
Mr C said he paid £24 for a transfer on 6 October 2019, but he doesnt have a ticket 
or receipt, and this payment doesnt seem to be included on his bank statement. I 
wouldve expected Mr C to keep his travel receipts, if he was intending to ask 
Barclays to pay his costs, and hes been able to show us other receipts. So, in the 
absence of that receipt, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask Barclays to 
pay this.
Mr C also wanted £30 per day for ten days, to cover food costs. Our investigator 
didnt think Barclays should pay this, because Mr C would have to spend some 
money on food wherever he was. I dont think Barclays should have to pay this for Mr 
Cs first trip, for the same reasons I dont think it should have to pay his travel costs. 
But I do think it should pay something towards Mr Cs costs on the second trip. I think 
Mr C probably pays rather less for food when hes eating at home, than when hes 
away, without access to his own kitchen. So I think its reasonable to add £15 per day 
for each full day that Mr C was away from home (2 October to 5 October inclusive) to 
go towards the extra costs of food. So thats £60 in total.
I think Barclays should pay £600 in compensation, which it has agreed to pay, and a 
slightly larger sum of £613.54 towards Mr Cs costs for the second trip he made back 
to the UK.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr C didnt reply. Barclays sent a short response.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it felt that it had agreed to a substantial amount for this complaint already, 
more than it would have normally for this type of complaint. But it said that due to the very 
individual circumstances it would agree to pay the additional amount set out in the 
Provisional Decision.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr C an additional £600 in 
compensation and £613.54 towards Mr Cs costs for the second trip he made back
to the UK.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman