DRN-3837528
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc blocked a payment he tried to make from 
his account and made payments in error from his account on two occasions. Mr C is also 
unhappy with the service he received from Co-op surrounding these matters.
What happened
Mr C found that Co-op had blocked a payment he was attempting to make to pay for fuel at a 
petrol station. Mr C wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy that Co-op had made 
two unauthorised payments from his account a few months prior which had been marked as 
overseas payments and which had put his account overdrawn. So, he raised a complaint.
Co-op looked at Mr Cs complaint. They explained that the payment to the petrol station had 
been flagged by their automated fraud prevention systems and noted that theyd sent Mr C a 
text message at the time the payment had been stopped which Mr C had quickly replied to 
which allowed the block to be removed from Mr Cs card. As such, Co-op didnt feel theyd 
acted unfairly towards Mr C regarding that aspect of his complaint. 
Co-op also explained that they couldnt find evidence of the two unauthorised payments that 
Mr C referred to in his complaint, and asked Mr c to provide further information about these. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that Co-op had acted 
unfairly in how theyd blocked the payment that had been flagged by their automated fraud 
prevention system, and so didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Cs complaint. 
However, our investigator did note that Co-op had subsequently confirmed that two 
unauthorised payments had been made from Mr Cs account due to human error and felt 
that, while those unauthorised payments had been refunded back to Mr Cs account in a 
timely manner, Mr C had been unfairly troubled and worried by these payments. 
Our investigator therefore said that Co-op should pay £150 compensation to Mr C for what 
had happened. Mr C didnt feel that the recommendation put forwards by our investigator 
went far enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial institutions such as Co-op have an obligation to have systems in place to protect 
their customers accounts, as much as possible, from acts of attempted fraud. To that end, 
automated fraud prevention systems, such as the system that flagged Mr Cs attempted 
payment here, are widely used to flag account activity that may be of concern and to prevent 
usage of an account where theres a possibility that fraud may potentially be occurring. 
 
Additionally, its incumbent on banks to employ these systems with a degree of vigilance  to 
err on the side of caution, as it were  which unfortunately means that there will be instances 
where legitimately authorised transfers are flagged erroneously by the fraud prevention 
systems. And Im satisfied that this is what happened in this instance.
 
I appreciate that Mr C may like an explanation as to why this was the case. But I wouldnt 
expect Co-op to provide such an explanation here, and this is not only because fraud 
prevention systems are being constantly updated by financial institutions in response to new 
information on potential threats, but also because if a bank were to make public how its fraud 
prevention systems work, then this would potentially reduce the effectiveness of those 
systems and leave them open to manipulation.
 
Im not unsympathetic to Mr Cs frustration here. But ultimately, I feel that the necessary 
employment of fraud prevention systems can mean that there are instances where an 
unavoidable degree of inconvenience and frustration can sadly be incurred by account 
holders  and I feel thats whats happened here. And, while I accept that this is unfortunate, 
I dont feel that its unfair.
Additionally, its also notable that in this instance, Co-op sent a text message to Mr C within 
a minute of his account being blocked and that Mr C responded to that text message a few 
minutes later which led to the quick unblocking of his account such that only minimal 
disruption was experienced by Mr C. And so, taking into consideration all the above, I dont 
feel that Co-op did act unfairly by blocking the payment as they did, or regarding the service 
they provided to Mr C surrounding that issue, and so I dont feel Co-op should reasonably be 
asked to compensate Mr C for the blocking of that payment as he may like.
But its clear that Co-op did process two unauthorised payments from Mr Cs account, in 
March and June 2021 respectively. While the Co-op staff member that initially looked at Mr 
Cs complaint didnt find these unauthorised payments, Co-op have subsequently confirmed 
to this service that they did take place and have explained that they were as the result of 
keying errors by individual members of their staff. 
In both instances Co-op appear to have quickly recognised the mistakes and acted quickly to 
reimburse the amounts back to Mr Cs account. And Co-op explained that in the first 
instance they contacted Mr C and made him aware of what had happened and that the error 
was being rectified, and that in the second instance they made three attempts to contact Mr 
C but were unable to do so and so left an explanatory note so that the issue could be 
explained to Mr C if he called Co-op about it.
Mr C doesnt remember ever receiving a call from Co-op about this issue. But I find the 
internal notes provided by Co-op which detail their successful and unsuccessful attempts to 
contact Mr C to be persuasive here, and I therefore feel its more likely than not, on balance 
and in consideration of all the information provided to me by both Mr C and Co-op, that the 
description of events provided by Co-op did take place.
Notably, one of the unauthorised payments put Mr Cs account into an overdrawn position. 
But Co-ops notes confirm they were conscious that Mr C shouldnt incur any fees or charges 
because of their error, and it appears that no such fees or charges were incurred by Mr C.
However, the fact remains that Co-op made, and repeated, the mistake of making a payment 
from Mr Cs account that he hadnt instructed. And I appreciate how this would have been 
both inconvenient and upsetting to Mr C, even if Co-ops errors were resolved reasonably 
quickly in both instances.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator recommended that Co-op should make a payment of £150 to Mr C as compensation for the trouble and worry Mr C incurred 
surrounding these unauthorised payments. And, while I acknowledge that matters of 
compensation can be subjective, and that Mr C may feel that a higher amount of 
compensation should be merited here, this £150 amount does feels fair to me.
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the impact that these unauthorised payments may 
have had on Mr C, especially given that Co-op made the same error twice, and also that  
Co-op acted swiftly to resolve those errors, as explained. Ive also considered the general 
framework within which this service considers compensation amounts for trouble and upset, 
further details of which can be found on this services website, and in consideration of all 
these points Im satisfied that £150 is a fair and reasonable amount for what happened here.
Finally, in his correspondence with this service, Mr C has explained that he doesnt feel that 
an award of £150 provides any deterrence to banks such as Co-op to be more vigilant in not 
making errors. But this service isnt a regulatory body, and as such its not within my remit to 
consider the wider conduct of banks such as Co-op as Mr C suggests  such considerations 
would be for a regulatory body to make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service with a remit based on 
fairness of outcome in consideration of the specific events being complained about. And, 
having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the award of 
£150 compensation to Mr C regarding the two unauthorised payments made by Co-op from 
his account does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs complaint.
It therefore follows that while I will be upholding this complaint in Mr Cs favour, Ill only be 
doing so on the same basis as previously recommended by our investigator, whereby my 
only instruction to Co-op will be that they must make a payment of £150 to Mr C. I realise 
this may not be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given everything 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Co-op must make a payment of £150 to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc on the 
basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman