DRN-2544801
The complaint
Ms P complains that she was mis-sold a term assurance policy by Legal & General 
Partnership Services Limited (L&G) at a difficult time in her life. 
What happened
In 2010 Ms P and her partner took out a mortgage. Sadly, her partner died and in early 
2012, Ms P took out a mortgage in her own name. At the same time, an L&G adviser (the 
adviser) also recommended that Ms P take out a term assurance policy. The policys 
monthly premiums were almost £80 and initial cover  which was payable on death or critical 
illness  was set at £200,000, decreasing over the same term as the repayment mortgage.
In early 2020 Ms P complained to L&G about the sale of the policy. She said the adviser had 
insisted she needed the policy to secure her mortgage. Ms P said the adviser told her if she 
became ill, like her partner, she (Ms P) would lose her home. Ms P feels the adviser took 
advantage of her at a vulnerable time in her life and she felt pressured into buying the policy.
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when Ms P met with its adviser her main aim 
was to be able to repay her mortgage if she became critically ill. L&G noted that Ms P was 
self-employed at the time and was solely responsible for paying the mortgage. So in light of 
Ms Ps aims and needs, it was satisfied the advisers recommendation was suitable.
Our investigator didnt think L&G had done anything wrong as she considered the 
recommendation was suitable for Ms Ps particular circumstances. And she didnt think there 
was sufficient evidence to conclude the adviser had pressured Ms P into buying the policy 
and/ or told her it was a requirement of the mortgage. 
Ms P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted everything Ms P has said, but I wont be addressing every single point 
shes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of 
Ms Ps complaint. Id also like to acknowledge Ms Ps loss. Whilst I sympathise with her 
situation, I cant fairly say L&G has done anything wrong in her case. Ill explain why. 
At the time of the advice in 2012, a Summary of Demands and Needs (D&N) was 
completed along with an application form for the policy. Both were sent to Ms P by post more 
than a month after her meeting with the adviser. I can see these and other point of sale 
documents, show that Ms Ps situation was that she was single, self-employed and solely 
responsible for paying her mortgage. And in terms of her objectives, the D&N said Ms P 
wanted to be able to pass on her property, which had a mortgage of £255,000, with as little 
debt as possible. It was also noted that if she became critically ill and couldnt work, shed be 
unable to pay her mortgage and other bills without suitable cover in place. 
I can see the advisers recommendation matched Ms Ps mortgage in terms of amount, 
duration and type  it was on a decreasing basis, so went down in line with the balance of 
her repayment mortgage. But Ms P didnt fully accept the advisers recommendation, opting 
instead for lower premiums with less cover of £200,000, to better suit her budget.
In light of these facts, I consider the advisers recommendation to take out the policy was 
suitable. If Ms P had become critically ill, shed receive a lump sum payment to enable her to 
meet her mortgage repayments and other bills. I cant see that Ms P had any other suitable 
cover in place to enable her to meet these costs under circumstances where she was too ill 
to work.
Given Ms P was single with no dependents, Ive considered whether the life cover was 
needed. But I can see all of the policy premiums were paid towards providing critical illness 
cover  the life cover was provided at no additional cost. And as Ive said, given the policy 
would have helped Ms P meet her financial needs in the event of her becoming seriously ill, I 
think it was suitable for her. I take on board what shes said about not being advised to take 
out a policy with her partner previously. But looking at her circumstances when she took out 
this policy, I dont think the adviser was acting unreasonably when he recommended it.
I know Ms P thinks the adviser took advantage of her situation. Given the nature of the 
advice, I dont doubt the death of Ms Ps partner and what would happen if she herself 
became seriously ill, was discussed. But, overall, Im satisfied Ms P was given sufficient time 
to consider information about the policy separately from the meeting with the adviser. Ms P 
was sent documents such as the D&N by post and the policy didnt start for more than a 
month after the meeting. All in all, I think this gave Ms P time to reflect on what shed been 
told and to make an informed decision about whether to take the advice or not.
In terms of whether the adviser told Ms P the policy was a requirement of the mortgage 
application, I dont think I can fairly conclude this was said or inferred solely on the basis of 
Ms Ps recollections. The mortgage key features document highlighted to Ms P that buildings 
insurance was the only insurance that was a condition of the mortgage. So while the adviser 
may well have been very positive about the benefits of the cover, Im not persuaded he 
deliberately misled Ms P about it being a requirement of her mortgage.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman