DRN-1928317
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that hes lost out financially because the Pensions Review calculation 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited carried out in 2000 was not carried out properly.
What happened
Mr C was advised in May 1993 to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits 
into a personal pension scheme (PPS). Mr C accepted this advice and transferred his 
pension to a PPS on 13 September 1993. The financial adviser that recommended this was 
an employee of London & Manchester, which is now owned by Aviva. To keep things simple, 
Ill refer to the business as Aviva in the rest of this decision.
In 1994, there was an industry-wide Pension Review. As part of that review, Mr C was asked 
if he wanted his pension transfer reviewed. He opted to do so.
On 14 September 2000, Aviva informed Mr C that it had carried out his review in line with 
the guidelines issued by the regulator, and the calculation showed that he hadnt suffered 
a loss as a result of the transfer.
In October 2019, Mr C complained to Aviva about the outcome of his Pensions Review. 
Aviva didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr C referred his complaint to our service.
Aviva consented to our service dealing with Mr Cs complaint (the complaint having been 
made outside the usual timescales for bringing a complaint to us). It said it had carried 
out the Pension Review in line with its regulators guidance and that in Mr Cs case the 
review showed hed not suffered any financial loss.
Our investigator looked into it. She recommended that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. She said, in summary, it appeared Aviva had acted correctly when it completed 
the loss calculation in 2000, following the regulatory requirements that were relevant at 
that time. So, she said, Aviva couldnt be required to do more.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings and so his complaint has been referred to 
me for a decision. Mr C said, through his representative, in summary, that PPS were not 
provided for free. As Mr Cs calculation didnt include an assumption for policy fees, the 
calculation had not been carried out properly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, in October 1994, the then regulator, the 
Securities and Investment Board (SIB), established an industry-wide review of 
particular pension business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 
1988 and 30 June 1994. This was generally known as the Pension Review. 
The advice Mr C received fell into this category. 
The review was set up due to concerns about unsuitable advice being given by 
businesses during this period, to transfer out of an OPS with guaranteed 
benefits, to a PPS where the benefits were not guaranteed and were dependent 
on investment returns. 
If the advice given was found to be unsuitable, the regulator provided a process, 
known as the Pension Review methodology, which businesses had to follow in 
order to determine whether the consumer had suffered a loss. 
If there was a loss, the methodology also calculated what the business needed 
to do, to put the consumer back into the position they shouldve been in, but for 
the unsuitable advice. The Pension Review was intended to be a one-time only 
assessment. The redress paid wasnt intended to be ongoing or reviewable.
However, not all consumers suffered a loss as a result of the advice to transfer. 
This is what the methodology was designed to ascertain. The methodology
and associated calculations were based on a number of actuarial assumptions. The 
calculations were very complex and were completed by a qualified actuary, using specialist 
software.
Where the methodology found there was no loss, the business didnt have to pay any 
compensation to the consumer. 
From what I can see from Mr Cs calculation, I think it was probably completed correctly in 
2000, in line with the regulators Pension Review rules and requirements, that applied at 
that time. 
Our investigator explained, our role as a service is not to actuarially check the details of 
these calculations. We can check for any obvious errors in approach within the calculations. 
Having looked at a copy of Avivas actuarial calculations, I cant see any obvious errors. I 
dont think the calculation must have been flawed, because it didnt include a policy fee. 
Ive not seen anything to show that SIB, or the regulators that followed, expressed 
concerns about Avivas general approach to these redress calculations. This was an 
exercise carried out on a large scale. The calculations themselves were overseen by 
actuaries. If there was a problem, I think it likely that the relevant regulator, at the time, 
wouldve intervened.
Mr Cs representative asked us to require Aviva to redo Mr Cs calculation, applying the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) (the current regulators), updated pension redress 
methodology from 2017. However, the FCA has said that this updated methodology is 
only to be used where a business didnt previously review the transfer in accordance with 
the regulatory standards or requirements at the time. Here, I have concluded that Aviva 
did carry out its review in line with regulatory standards and requirements in 2000, so it 
would therefore not be fair or reasonable for me to require Aviva to revisit the calculation 
using the 2017 methodology.
Taking all of this into account, I cant fairly require Aviva to revisit Mr Cs loss calculation 
now. I say this because I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong in the way it carried this out 
in 2000. And in those circumstances, I make no award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman