DRN-3160538
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner. She also complains that it didnt calculate a settlement figure for the 
loan fairly.
 
What happened
 Mrs H was given a loan by Everyday Loans. It was for £3000 and was due to be repaid over 
36 months. Mrs H took this loan out in August 2018 and the monthly repayment would be 
£179.17. Mrs H repaid the loan in July 2019.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
Everyday Loans gathered some information from Mrs H before it agreed to lend. It asked 
Mrs H about her income and expenditure. It says it verified her income by checking a payslip 
and used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess her living expenses. It says it 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out her credit commitments. It also asked for 
two months worth of bank statements from Mrs H and checked these also.
Mrs H was entering into a significant commitment with Everyday Loans. She was agreeing to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years for £179.17. This represented a not 
insignificant proportion of Mrs Hs monthly income. So, I think it is right that Everyday Loans 
wanted to gather, and independently check (regarding the bank statements, payslip and 
through the credit search), some detailed information about Mrs Hs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to her. I am minded to think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I 
think on balance its checks were proportionate. It was Mrs Hs first loan with Everyday Loans 
and based on her circumstances at the time, I think it gathered enough information in order 
to inform its decision to lend. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Everyday Loans gathered from Mrs H to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to 
be given the loan.
I can see that Everyday Loans had verified Mrs Hs income to be £1246.31 and this was the 
amount that had been paid into her bank account also, showing on her statements that it 
would have seen. It recorded down that she made no contribution to rent (again I can see 
from the bank statements that it would have had in front of it, that this was most likely the 
case) and after it took into consideration her credit commitments and the loan repayment, it 
could see that her disposable income would be around £219. I havent been able to check 
the credit search results that Everyday Loans carried out. But I can see what it recorded 
down from this search, and these seem to tally with what Mrs H was paying on the bank 
statements she submitted to it. The statements also showed that Mrs H was running her 
personal account well with no missed payments or any transactions that ought to have given 
Everyday Loans concerns. From the information it gathered from its checks, I think it would 
have been apparent to Everyday Loans that the loan was affordable and there was nothing 
that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it Mrs H was struggling to manage 
her finances. Or anything that would have given it concerns that she couldnt repay the loan 
in a sustainable way.
So, overall, I am currently minded to think Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks. 
In addition, with the information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. 
So, I dont think Everyday Loans was wrong to give the loan to Mrs H.
Finally, Mrs H has said she doesnt think the settlement figure provided by Everyday Loans 
was fair. Like our investigator, I also dont think Everyday Loans has done anything wrong 
here.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Both parties did not respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have not responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add, I dont 
see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being 
the case, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman