DRN-3689061
The complaint
Miss V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt help recover money she lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In October 2019, Miss V was introduced to an investment opportunity with Infinox Capital. 
She was told she would see a minimum monthly return of 10% and her account deposit 
would never fall before 90%. Miss V used her Lloyds debit card to deposit £10,000 into her 
trading account with Infinox Capital. In December 2019, she received two credits  £757.00 
and £243.78  into her Lloyds account from Infinox Capital. 
In March 2020, Miss V contacted Lloyds and asked for its assistance in recovering her funds 
as she believed she had been scammed. Lloyds asked Miss V for further information to raise 
a chargeback, but ultimately concluded she was out of time to request it. It paid £50 
compensation for unnecessarily asking her to provide the information, but it refused to 
refund the disputed transaction. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that Lloyds didnt act unfairly by not 
attempting to recover the payment through the chargeback scheme. And while he thought 
that the disputed transaction ought to have flagged as unusual to Lloyds, the investigator 
wasnt persuaded that an intervention would have made a difference to Miss Vs decision-
making. Miss V didnt agree, and the matter was escalated to me for a decision. 
I wrote to Miss V informally and explained that I intended agreeing with the overall outcome 
the investigator had reached, but for slightly different reasons. I wasnt persuaded that 
Infinox Capital could be described as fraudulent, and so I didnt think that Lloydss duty of 
care to protect her from loss due to fraud was triggered. 
In relation to recovery of funds when Miss V subsequently reached out to Lloyds, I explained 
that I didnt think she was outside the chargeback time limits like Lloyds and the investigator 
had suggested. But I didnt think this made a difference as there were only limited grounds 
and limited forms of evidence that the card scheme operator would accept for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. I couldnt see that Miss V had the necessary 
evidence. And even if the required evidence was available, there was no guarantee that the 
chargeback would have been successful  it could have been defended by the merchant 
which had been operating legitimately.
As Miss V remained unhappy, Im issuing a formal decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or has been argued is set out above, Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options, contract for 
difference (CFD) or forex scam is in fact a scam. Some merchants may have used sales and 
promotional methods that could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses 
theyve incurred, but this doesnt always amount to fraud. While customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they dont necessarily meet the 
high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is important 
because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to protect customers 
from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where 
payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Ive considered the official organisations that publish warnings about investment merchants 
that operate in the UK and elsewhere. Ive searched the Investors Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that 
brings together the worlds securities regulators. And the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), the financial services regulator in the UK, also has its own warning list which is in 
place to share alerts and insights about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent. 
I cant see that theres been a scam warning published about Infinox Capital by the FCA or a 
regulator in another jurisdiction (which Id expect to see on the IOSCO website). On the 
other hand, the information Ive seen indicates that Miss Vs dealings were with a legitimate 
company trading from the Bahamas and regulated by the Securities Commission of the 
Bahamas. A scammer is highly unlikely to submit itself to regulatory oversight in any 
jurisdiction, given the real risk of its true purpose being discovered.
Miss V submits that that Infinox Capital is under investigation by the FCA as well as the City 
and Metropolitan police forces. I acknowledge her comments, but an investigation into a firm 
alone isnt conclusive evidence that it has been deemed to be operating fraudulently. I must 
follow the evidence and, essentially, Ive no credible evidence to persuade me with any 
degree of certainty that Infinox Capital was operating a scam and the evidence Ive seen 
suggests that it was indeed regulated  albeit in a different jurisdiction  at the time it offered 
services to Miss V. 
I acknowledge that Miss V thought she was dealing Infinox Capitals FCA-regulated branch 
based in the UK. But given that the merchant she actually paid (i.e., the Bahamian entity) is 
still a legitimate merchant, there would have been no reason for Lloyds to have automatically 
blocked the payment pending further enquiry. Taking everything into consideration, Im not 
persuaded that it can be described as fraudulent. That being the case, Lloydss duty to 
protect its customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud wasnt triggered here.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes 
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator  Visa in this case  
ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. And time limits also apply. 
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
The only grounds for a chargeback claim for an investment opportunity is if the cardholder 
has tried to withdraw an available balance and this isnt processed by the investment firm. 
The rules state that the cardholder must evidence this with confirmation of their available 
balance and evidence of a withdrawal request for equal to or less than this amount, all dated 
to evidence the withdrawal was done at a time when that amount was available. And the 
time limit for raising a chargeback claim for issues pertinent to this case is within 120 days of 
the transaction processing date or within 120 days of the date the goods or services were 
expected to be received (but no later than 540 days from the transaction processing date).
Miss V has said that she wasnt aware it was actually a scam until her funds were stolen in 
January 2020. And she contacted Infinox Capital on numerous occasions throughout 
January and February 2020. From the available information, I can see that she contacted 
Lloyds about this on 9 March 2020. So, when I wrote to Miss V informally, based on that 
information I said I was satisfied that she contacted Lloyds within 120 days of attempting to 
withdraw funds from her investment account (and well within 540 days of the transaction 
processing date). I also said that I hadnt seen anything that led me to conclude she had the 
required evidence (see above) or that she would have been able to obtain it had it been 
requested at that time.  
In response, Miss V said she wasnt informed of the evidence that was needed. She also 
provided a screenshot of a WhatsApp message that she sent to her account manager on 
5 November 2019 asking to cancel the investment deal. I explained that this didnt fully 
meet the requirements for a chargeback claim. The message doesnt show that she tried to 
make a withdrawal, or evidence she had that amount available in her investment account at 
the time. And in any event, Miss V didnt contact Lloyds within 120 days of that date. So, she 
would have already been out of time for a chargeback claim.
Miss V states that she forwarded the screenshot only to serve as evidence that she did 
request for her investment account to be closed and this didnt happen. It wasnt presented 
as evidence to be considered in relation to timeframes for the chargeback. She says that 
disagrees with my latest assessment regarding time limits and says my initial assessment 
was correct, namely that she wasnt out of time because she contacted Lloyds within the 
time frame in relation to when she actually became aware of the scam and when the funds 
were stolen. 
There appears to be some misunderstanding here as awareness of being scammed isnt 
relevant to the time limits under the chargeback scheme rules. As Ive mentioned, the only 
grounds for a chargeback for an investment-related transaction is if the merchant refuses to 
allow the cardholder to withdraw available balances. Looking through the file again, I can 
see that Miss V has previously told us that she made a withdrawal request on 15 November 
2019, but this didnt happen. Given that she was unsuccessful in making a withdrawal at that 
time, and shes now provided further information to serve as evidence that she also tried to 
close her account (and this didnt happen), Im satisfied that under the applicable rules 
Miss V was already out of time to request a chargeback when she contacted Lloyds on 
9 March 2020.
I would add, if only for the sake of completeness, that Ive not seen the required evidential 
screenshots of the investment account and Miss Vs withdrawal request, both dated the 
same day. So, even if I had concluded that Miss V had complied with the required time limits (just to be clear, that isnt my finding here), the evidence that Lloyds would have still needed 
to present a chargeback wasnt available. 
Going further, even if the required evidence was available and the chargeback was 
requested in time, theres still no guarantee that the outcome would have gone in Miss Vs 
favour. The rules give the merchant an opportunity to respond and theres always a 
possibility Infinox Capital would have successfully defended the chargeback. 
I know Miss V has said that other banks presented chargebacks for their customers for the 
same incident, and they were successful. My role is to decide the case before me and in 
doing so Ive considered the facts of this case. It may well be that in the circumstances of the 
other cases that Miss V has referred to, time limits were complied with, and the required 
evidence was available. Or that the banks concerned simply used their discretion to present 
a chargeback without having all the required information (after all, a chargeback is at the 
card issuers discretion and isnt a right). Given the circumstances surrounding Miss Vs 
case, for the reasons Ive given, I cant fairly say that Lloyds was wrong not to pursue a 
chargeback. It has, however, recognised that it asked Miss V for information it didnt need 
and has paid £50. I consider that amount to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss V. Not 
least because shes lost a significant amount of money and this complaint has been ongoing 
for some time. But I dont consider Lloyds to be liable for the loss shes incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman