DRN-3622560
The complaint
Mr W says Nationwide Building Society twice failed to set up a direct debit for the payment 
plan on his loan.  
What happened
Mr W contacted Nationwide in November 2021 as he was having problems making his loan 
repayments. A payment plan was agreed, and a direct debit was set up for £200. Twice this 
failed and repayments were not taken for December 2021, January 2022 and again in March 
2022. Nationwide acknowledged this was its fault, most likely due to a systems error. It paid 
Mr W £150 compensation and agreed to amend his credit file to reflect he had an 
arrangement to pay in place, rather than reporting arrears. At the time of his second 
complaint however Mr W said he could no longer afford a £200 monthly payment plan. 
Nationwide asked him to contact it to complete a revised income and expenditure form in 
order to help. 
Mr W says as Nationwides errors caused him to miss repayments it should cover the cost of 
the arrears on his account. He is unhappy he had to complain twice as the problem recurred. 
This has all impacted his mental health causing a lot of anxiety and stress, as well as taking 
up a lot of his time. He also wants his credit file correcting, compensation and a lower 
monthly repayment to be accepted.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said Nationwide accepted it was its 
error that caused the direct debit to fail, twice, and it had apologised. In response to both 
complaints it had also paid compensation and corrected the data it had reported to the credit 
reference agency(ies). He felt this was a fair outcome, and explained that we would not 
direct Nationwide to cover the cost of the arrears as this was money Mr W had borrowed and 
agreed to repay. 
He noted Mr W was already having problems making his repayments prior to the direct debit 
issues. He said he had asked Mr W for a copy of his credit file so he could see what was 
now being reported, but Mr W had not sent this in. He advised that as Mr W has now said 
the £200 monthly payment is unaffordable he must contact Nationwide. He felt its previous 
actions evidenced it was showing forbearance, as it must in such circumstances. Overall, he 
concluded Nationwide had taken responsibility for its errors and need make no further 
payments to Mr W.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review.  He said it is 
unacceptable Nationwide can make mistakes and there be no repercussions.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Nationwide failed to successfully set up Mr Ws direct debit twice. But 
it accepted this, apologised, paid Mr W £150 compensation and corrected the information it 
had reported to the credit reference agency(ies). However, Mr W feels Nationwide should 
write-off his arrears because of its mistakes.  
I am not persuaded this would be fair. Mr W has had the benefit of the money. And he had 
already fallen behind with his contractual repayments before these errors occurred  he 
agreed to the new £200 direct debit in November 2021 to clear his arrears. His July 2021 
payment had failed, and he had made no repayments from August 2021 onwards. I accept 
the recurrence of the issue in March 2022 will have been frustrating for Mr W, but I dont find 
this means his arrears should be waived either  I do not think the two issues are linked in 
the way Mr W presents them.
Mr W also asked that any adverse data be removed from his credit file. Nationwide had 
agreed to ensure the missed payments from the times it failed to collect his direct debit were 
not reported as arrears. It confirmed it had done this for the December 2021 and January 
2022 payments. Our investigator said if Mr W sent in his credit file he could check that for 
him, but he did not do this, so we have not been able to help in this regard. 
And as Mr W then said he could no longer afford the payment plan in April 2022, Nationwide 
could not confirm what it would report externally in the final response letter it sent after the 
second direct debit failure. Rather it confirmed it would not reset the previous arrangement 
and asked Mr W to get in touch. At the time the Mr W and the business submitted its 
evidence to us Mr W had not been in touch with Nationwide to discuss a way forward. I 
would urge him, if he has not already, to contact the society and complete a revised income 
and expenditure form now that he knows we will not be instructing Nationwide to waive the 
arrears. This will allow both parties to understand what repayment options can be 
considered. We would not instruct Nationwide to accept a lower monthly repayment as it 
needs to first understand Mr Ws current financial position to make sure the repayment 
solution is affordable for him. 
It follows I am not asking Nationwide to take any further compensatory action, only to ensure 
it treats Mr W positively and sympathetically if he remains in financial difficulties. I am sorry 
Mr W has found this very stressful, and note he feels there have been no consequences for 
Nationwide. But our role is not to penalise an organisation if it makes an error, rather it is to 
ensure it has put any error right and paid appropriate compensation. For the reasons set out 
above I am satisfied Nationwide has done that in this case.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman