DRN-4329437
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with how AWP P&C SA handled a claim she made on her travel insurance 
policy.  
What happened
Mrs L claimed on her travel insurance policy. Shes unhappy that it took around 5 months for 
AWP to settle the claim for medical expenses. Mrs L complained to AWP about the delays 
and they offered £50 compensation. 
Mrs L didnt feel this was fair compensation and complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Ls complaint. He 
awarded a total of £100 compensation for the delays. 
AWP accepted the investigators recommendation. Mrs L asked an ombudsman to review 
her complaint as she thought AWP should pay more compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute in this case. Its accepted by AWP that there were delays in 
settling the claim and that Mrs L had to chase this up a number of times. 
There would have always been a period of time where Mrs L was without the money she 
paid out for the medical expenses. Its not uncommon for it to take a few months to 
investigate and settle a claim. So, I wouldnt have expected that Mrs L would have received 
the money as soon as she made the claim. But its clear that it could have been resolved 
sooner than it was.  
Ive considered everything that Mrs L has said about the impact on her. But I think 
compensation of £100 fairly reflects the impact of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays. There were repeated errors and I think this caused Mrs L unnecessary worry 
during the months the claim was unresolved. In reaching this conclusion Ive thought about 
what shes said about experiencing financial hardship and the impact on her family. But, I 
dont think AWP needs to pay Mrs L any further compensation.    
Putting things right
AWP needs to put things right by paying Mrs L £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by delays and poor communication. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint about AWP P&C SA and direct to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman