DRN-2931452
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund a transaction that he disputes 
making.
What happened
Mr W noticed a payment had left his account that he didnt recognise. Mr W notified Barclays 
about the transaction and told them he didnt make it. Mr W said he didnt know the person 
who the money was sent to. Mr W also made a report to Action Fraud about the loss.
Mr W confirmed that no one else had access to his phone, knew the pass codes to his 
phone or the banking app and he still had his debit card in his possession.
Barclays looked into the transfer and told Mr W that they were holding him responsible for 
making the payment. They said that there was no point of compromise. Barclays produced 
evidence that Mr Ws nominated device was used to make the payment, using the correct 
passcode and it was the same one that had been registered with Barclays to make previous 
payments from the account. They also said the Internet Provider (IP) address matched 
previous use by Mr W and that the details from Mr Ws debit card were needed to confirm 
the payment because it was set up as a new payee.
Mr W continued to disagree with Barclays and thought his identity had been hijacked. He 
made a further complaint to Barclays about how theyd dealt with the investigation and 
brought his complaint to our service for an independent review.
One of our investigators looked into the details of the complaint and thought that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr W liable for the transaction. She also referred to an 
incoming payment from another of Mr Ws accounts that funded the outgoing payment.
Mr W disagreed with the outcome and stressed that when hed tried to enter the details of 
the recipient into a different banking app, the details couldnt be confirmed, and Mr W 
thought this was suspicious.
The complaint has now come to me for a final decision. Mr Ws second complaint is a 
continuation of his first and my decision takes that into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint is that he didnt make the transaction and Barclays case is that they think 
he did. The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 
2017. The basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr W liable for the disputed payment if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made it or authorised it.
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Barclays have supplied evidence that 
shows the new payee was set up and the payment authorised using the mobile banking app 
and the passcode. Theyve confirmed that it also required the details from Mr Ws debit card. 
Because Barclays have been able to provide this information, Im satisfied the disputed 
transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Mr W agreed to operate the account to 
allow Barclays to make payments on Mr Ws behalf. For example, Barclays terms and 
conditions set out that if a payment is arranged through mobile/internet banking and the 
account holder uses their security details to confirm the payment, then Barclays accept that 
the instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because the 
passcode and debit card details were used to open the mobile app and confirm the payment- 
Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there 
are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to hold Mr W responsible, for 
example, if the mobile app was used without his permission.
Mr W continued to make the case that he didnt make the transaction. There was a transfer 
into the account just prior to the disputed transaction, which took the account out of the 
agreed overdraft and funded the transaction. Mr W has said it was coincidence the payment 
arrived into his account to pay rent, but I think the timing is very fortuitous because the 
disputed transaction couldnt have happened without this transfer. Mr W thought he was a 
victim of identity theft, but I havent seen any evidence to support that.
Mr W was adamant that no one knew his security details, or the information contained on his 
debit card. All of this information was needed to make the payment and I dont think its likely 
that an unknown third -party could obtain all of this information to make the payment. Also, 
when I consider the timing of the incoming transfer, I think its more likely than not that Mr W 
was responsible for making the payment himself or enabled someone else to do it with his 
knowledge. I say that because the payment from the account wasnt made until it was 
funded with the incoming transfer and its unlikely someone without access to the account 
could have known that it had funds in it.
Mr Ws online records also show that hed accessed his banking app in the days following 
the payment from the account but didnt notify Barclays about the disputed transaction for 
three days after it was made. I dont think its usual for someone who was a victim of a theft 
to fail to notice the payment from the account when it was a substantial part of the balance 
and they were using their banking app. 
Mr W has stressed that when he tried to use the details of the beneficiary account in other 
banking apps, they couldnt confirm the details and he thought this suspicious. At the time of 
the disputed transaction in 2020, the beneficiary bank in question wasnt part of the 
Confirmation of Payee scheme. What this means is that when an attempt is used to confirm 
a new payee whose account is held with a bank thats not part of the system, the return 
message shows that it wasnt possible to confirm the details. This doesnt necessarily mean 
there is anything suspicious about the account, just that the bank isnt signed up to the 
Confirmation of Payee system.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr W was responsible for 
making the transaction or enabling someone else to do it with his knowledge. Im sure Mr W 
will disagree with me, but the evidence Ive considered leads me to that conclusion. Because 
I think it was reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr W liable for the transaction, I wont be 
asking them to do anything.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman