DRN-3491198
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was given unsuitable investment advice in June 2006 and October 
2015 by a representative of a (predecessor) business acquired by Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited in 2019, referred to as Quilter or the business.  
In summary, Mrs Ls unhappy that: 
The 2006 suitability letter didnt make the underlying charges of the bond clear. It 
gave a misleading view of the overall cost of the bond.
The 2006 advice shouldve been geared towards growth and she shouldve been 
advised to invest in her ISA. 
Shes paid underlying tax in relation to the 2006 and 2015 bonds that couldve been 
avoided. 
She couldve used her ISA and Capital Gains Tax (CGT) allowance between 2006 
and 2015. 
She was always likely to be a higher rate taxpayer and now shell have to pay a 
further 20% tax on any gains from the bonds  she already has gains of £100,000. 
In 2006 she was told not to attend a meeting with her previous advisers. 
Mrs L is being assisted by Mr B, her new financial adviser. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it was entirely within 
jurisdiction or that it should be upheld. In summary, he said: 
The complaint relating to the 2006 charges was made too late. Mrs L knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, by 2016, that she had cause for complaint. Thats when 
she received an annual statement from the (new) bond provider detailing the charges 
 including for the period between 7 June 2015 and 6 June 2016 when she was 
charged £2,123  so she wouldve known about the charges associated with the 
bond. 
The complaint relating to the 2006 bond  relating to suitability  was otherwise in 
jurisdiction. Mrs L only knew, or ought reasonably to have known she had cause for 
complaint after speaking to her new advisers in 2019. 
Just because she knew about the charges on the bond doesnt mean that she knew 
or ought reasonably to have known that there was an issue with the suitability of the 
advice regarding possible tax implications. 
On the face of the limited information  namely the portfolio application form and the 
suitability letter  the 2006 advice was suitable. 
At the time, she could only invest a maximum of £7,000 into the ISA. 
The bond allowed a 5% partial surrender without triggering a chargeable event. The 
allowance was cumulative, so after 10 years Mrs L could withdraw up to 50% of her 
initial investment.
The recommendation letter made clear that Mrs L as a higher rate tax payer could be 
subject to a 20% tax which suggests that the issue was discussed. 
Although Quilter initially objected to us considering the situation with the letter from 
Mrs Ls previous advisers inviting her to attend an interview  on the basis that it 
wasnt a regulated activity  it subsequently provided consent. 
It seems to agree that Mrs L was entitled to assume that it was advice, alongside the 
advice she was receiving about the NHS pension scheme. In the circumstances it 
was ancillary to the regulated activity of advising on investments.  
The above notwithstanding, Quilter hasnt acted unreasonably by suggesting that Mrs 
L probably doesnt attend the meeting with her previous advisers  following a review 
about advice it gave in 2004 and 2005  with whom shed cut all ties. Mrs L was told 
it could be a letter from its compliance department  which happens from time to time 
 but as the meeting was with a financial planning specialist it was concerned there 
could be another agenda.  
Overall, Quilter has done nothing wrong by advising Mrs L not to go in for a financial 
review with her previous adviser after the relationship with it was terminated. 
On the face of the limited information available, the 2015 advice to invest £200,000 in 
an Old Mutual Wealth Collective Investment Bond (referred to as the OMW bond or 
the 2015 bond) was suitable for Mrs L as a higher rate tax payer. 
Mrs L was also advised to invest £15,240 (the maximum amount) in a Fidelity Fund 
Network ISA, and £150,000 in a Fidelity Fund Network Unit Trust. 
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, Mr B made the following points on her behalf:
In 2006 Mrs L was aware that charges were being levied but didnt know if these 
were reasonable or not. Shes not an expert and only had her 2004 bond at the time. 
The adviser was aware of Mrs Ls tax position but failed to appreciate a 14-year 
period that she would be a higher rate taxpayer for life. 
The adviser didnt act in Mrs Ls best interest for the following reasons:
oThe 5% tax deferred withdrawals were simply a return of capital. UK investors 
expect income/gains to be taxed not the capital a second time. 
oIn the case of an investment bond, income and gains are automatically 
subject to tax. A higher liability occurs on encashment if an investor is a 
higher rate taxpayer. 
oDue to a high level of guaranteed annuity income, this means it was inevitable 
that Mrs L would pay higher rate tax on all income and gains generated within 
the bond. A reasonable adviser wouldve been aware of this. 
oA competent adviser wouldve also noted that Mrs L wasnt making regular 
use of her ISA and CGT allowance. The adviser couldve also investigated 
whether Mrs L couldve made further pension contributions.   
oThe bonds wouldve also generated higher charges and he doesnt know 
what wouldve been on the advisers mind at the time. 
oHe accepts it wasnt possible to invest the full £100,000 in an ISA in 2006  
the ISA allowance at the time was only £7,000  although in his illustration 
hes shown what couldve been done instead.    
The 2015 bond also wasnt the most suitable for the reasons outlined above in 
relation to the 2006 bond. The money shouldve been invested with Fidelity and Mrs 
L shouldve been advised to increase her pension contribution.   
Whilst bonds could be suitable for some higher rate taxpayers, they werent suitable 
for Mrs L. 
Mrs L shouldve been advised to meet with her previous advisers and/or Quilter 
shouldve contacted it to find out what it really wanted. Instead she may have been 
deprived of compensation. The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Hes got very little evidence to go on. 
On the face of the available evidence, despite what Mr B says, without further 
evidence hes unable to say the 2006 and 2015 bonds were unsuitable. 
In the absence of evidence that Mrs L was looking for ways to minimise the amount 
of CGT liability, hes unable to say the business behaved unreasonably.   
In summary Mr B made the following key points:
His response dated 23 March highlighted the inadequacies of the advice received in 
2006.
Its unacceptable that Quilter has no papers. As a minimum hed expected a 
reputable business to have retained information for six years. Quilters acquisition of 
the predecessor business isnt a valid excuse. 
Mrs L shouldnt be penalised for Quilters failures. 
The adviser is treating Mrs L as an expert in the field despite paying for the services 
of an expert (adviser) to advise her.  
The investigators suggesting that Mrs L needed to ask her IFA to minimise her tax 
liability, but any competent financial adviser should do that automatically. 
The investigator should be giving Mrs L the benefit of any doubt.
The 2015 advice, which wasnt the most suitable, had a different structure to that in 
2006 but that still doesnt cause the investigator to conclude the 2006 advice was 
deficient. 
The adviser failed to understand Mrs Ls financial circumstances over a 14-year 
period. Any competent adviser shouldve realised that her widows pension 
guaranteed that she is very likely to be a higher rate taxpayer for life. Full usage of 
her ISA allowances, pension contributions and CGT allowances are basic financial 
planning. Instead Mrs L was sold an expensive product which generated high levels 
of commission. 
Despite what the investigator says about not having more information, the adviser at 
the time shouldve been aware of the need to provide a tax efficient structure for her 
investments. 
Mrs L had unnecessarily paid tax and will continue to do so because the structure the 
adviser chose in 2006 and 2015 wasnt the most suitable. When the gains are 
withdrawn, she will pay 20% tax, despite Mrs L taking steps to reduce future gains 
from the 2006 and 2015 bonds.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the limited available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, Im 
unable to safely say that the 2006 and 2015 advice was unsuitable for Mrs L. Mr B has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope that Mrs L wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider 
to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B, and Quilter, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I note given the length of time the Quilter is unable to provide more evidence about the sale 
of the 2006 and 2015 bonds. Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely 
therefore I cant say it has done anything wrong by not being able to provide more 
information from the point of sale. Im mindful the 2006 investment was given more than 15 
years ago, and the 2015 advice was given seven years ago. 
I appreciate the acquisition by Quilter of the predecessor business may not be a justification 
in itself, but its an explanation as to why Quilter may not have a copy of the advisers file. Im 
aware that the adviser left the predecessor business in 2018 prior to Quilter taking over in 
2019. So, despite what Mr B thinks, this is the situation I have to deal with and consider the 
case based on the information provided by him on behalf of Mrs L.  
In relation to the 2006 advice, I think the complaint about the charges is out of jurisdiction. 
On the face of the available evidence, I think by 2016 Mrs L knew or ought reasonably to 
have known she had cause for complaint about the charges. I think by this point (or probably 
even sooner, depending on previous statements she may have had access to), coupled with 
the point of sale documentation (that made clear the charges), she knew or ought 
reasonably to have known about the charges and whether or not she was happy with them.  
In my opinion I dont think Mrs L needed an adviser to tell her whether or not the charges 
were reasonable. It came down to whether or not she was happy to pay the fees charged, 
and historically she raised no issues despite having the information to hand. So, by 
complaining in 2020 this complaint has been made late. 
In this instance, I agree with the investigator that this was unlikely to alert Mrs L to any 
issues to do with the advice she received. In other words, just because she ought to have 
known about the charges, doesnt mean she knew or ought reasonably to have known she 
had cause for complaint about the suitability of the advice  in my opinion not until she 
discussed matters with her adviser in 2019 about tax implications, irrespective of whether or 
not there was any merit in her subsequent complaint. In this instance, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think the two issues can be considered separately.  
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the limited information available, Im unable to say 
that the 2006 recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs L. Based on what Mr B says, and with 
the benefit of hindsight, I appreciate that she couldve made a different investment/applied a 
different strategy that mightve been more tax efficient, but on balance Im not persuaded 
that of itself means that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Im not looking at whether or not there was a more suitable alternative, such as making 
greater pension contributions  which Ive seen no evidence of to suggest that she was 
interested in doing so at the time  Im simply looking at whether or not the recommendation 
was suitable notwithstanding the tax implications that Mr B refers to. Ive not seen anything to suggest that tax efficiency was a top priority for Mrs L, and that unless the investment 
minimised her future tax liabilities, it wouldve failed to meet her need/objective. 
Despite the points made by Mr B, I note he accepts that the adviser was aware of Mrs Ls 
tax position, therefore I cant  on the face of the evidence  safely say that the adviser didnt 
have her best interests at heart when making the recommendation or that he sold her the 
bond because it was the most lucrative. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that this was the 
case. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, it could be argued that Mrs L was aware of the 20% 
tax liability but wasnt deterred by it for her own reasons. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Mrs L needed to be an expert to raise an issue about this. I appreciate she wasnt an 
experienced investor however I note that she wasnt without experience either  she had a 
bond from 2004.     
I note the 2006 suitability letter made clear the following:
I have recommended that the investment bond is set up as 20 segments to provide
Flexibility. If you remain a higher rate tax payer at the point in time when the bond is
surrendered the worst case position will be a tax charge at 20% of the total profit.
The fact that an investment does better than expected, such that a greater tax liability arises, 
doesnt mean that the advice is unsuitable. I cant blame Quilter for Mrs Ls bonds doing well 
giving rise to a higher tax liability. Notwithstanding what Mr B says, avoiding tax on any gains 
didnt seem to be a priority for Mrs L.  
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight Mr B mightve advised Mrs L to do things 
differently with regards to tax. Be that as it may, I dont think that renders the 2006 advice 
unsuitable. Given the way the investment was set up it wasnt without tax efficiency, even if it 
wasnt the most tax efficient structure. 
Given that Mr B has raised similar objections for the 2015 bond, its for the same reasons I 
mentioned above that I cant say the 2015 advice was unsuitable. It seems to me Mrs L was 
willing to diversify by investing in the OMW bond as well as the Fidelity ISA, which was likely 
to have a favourable impact on any future tax liabilities. In any case, on balance I cant say 
the recommendation was unsuitable because Mrs L wasnt advised to invest the entire 
£200,000 in Fidelity. By then, Mrs L also had experience of having previously invested in two 
bonds. 
Im mindful that the 2015 bond was also tax deferred so there wasnt any further tax to be 
paid at the time and Mrs L could withdraw 5% a year without any tax to pay. I note Quilter 
also says if income hasnt been taken in previous policy years this can be accumulated when 
capital withdrawal or income is required which I think is reasonable. 
I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable just because there may have been more 
suitable options out there. And, despite what Mr B says, I cant safely say that the 2015 (or 
the 2006) recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs L. In my opinion the bonds arent 
inherently unsuitable for higher rate taxpayers  thats not to say theyre suitable in all 
circumstances for higher rate taxpayers either  Im not persuaded the business did anything 
wrong by advising her to invest in the bonds. 
I appreciate Quilter has given consent for us to consider the point about its previous 
advisers. It is for us to decide whether we can consider a complaint, but I agree with the 
investigator that this point concerns an ancillary activity and as such is something we can 
consider. However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says Im not persuaded that Quilter has done anything wrong by advising Mrs L not to go in for a 
financial review with her previous advisers, after the relationship with it was terminated. 
In my opinion, there was no obligation on Mrs L to do so and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Quilter to say it didnt see any value in her travelling to the predecessor 
business to see what it wanted. I appreciate Mr B disagrees with this and feels Mrs L 
shouldve been advised to attend the meeting or offered to speak to the previous advisers 
(without needing another letter), but I dont agree. 
I note the letter in question said the previous adviser would be very grateful if Mrs L (name 
anonymised) would agree to a meeting with one of our financial planning experts who will 
review the advice given  it didnt say that it finds the advice was unsuitable. But ultimately 
the decision whether or not to contact the business/attend the meeting was with Mrs L, if she 
was curious to find out what the business wanted. Furthermore, even if I thought she should 
have bene advised to attend a meeting there is no way of knowing what the outcome of that 
meeting would have been, so this would have no bearing on the findings I have made on the 
substantive issues raised about the suitability of the advice.
I appreciate Mrs L will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Quilter to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mrs L what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman