DRN-1584842
The complaint
Mr W complains Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr W took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1998 and bought a PPI policy at around the same 
time. 
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim Mr W made.
Mr W says he didnt need the policy and didnt have a choice about taking it out.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt uphold it. Mr W disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mr W he had a choice about PPI and it needed to get his 
agreement to it. I can see Mr W signed a separate application form for the PPI, as well as a 
separate direct debit mandate. I dont know how the PPI was presented to Mr W when he 
bought it. But I think its likely Mr Ws insurance needs were discussed with him and he 
signed the application form and direct debit mandate because he wanted the cover at the 
time. Theres nothing in Mr Ws mortgage loan agreement to suggest the mortgage was 
conditional on taking PPI. So I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint on this point.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr W so it needed to make sure it was right for him 
in his circumstances. I dont know what steps it took to do this. But from what Mr W says of 
his circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I think it was right for him. I say 
this because, based on these things:
Mr W was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by the main things it 
didnt cover, like known health conditions or unusual employment arrangements. So 
there was nothing to stop him claiming the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
I think the PPI gave him useful additional protection, especially bearing in mind a 
mortgage is a significant and long-term financial commitment and your home is at 
risk if you fall behind on your repayments. 
Mr W says he got some sick pay, had some savings and also had another accident, 
sickness and redundancy policy. We asked Mr W about this other policy but he 
wasnt able to give us much information about it. So I dont have enough evidence 
about it to say it made the cover given by the policy Mr W is complaining about here 
unsuitable. This PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each successful claim 
Mr W made  which was longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted (and the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to it). And it wouldve meant the savings Mr W said he 
had  about £2,000  couldve been used for other living expenses if needed.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr W couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr W, Lloyds also had to give Mr W information 
about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. As before, I dont know what steps 
Lloyds took to do this. But, as Ive already said, I think its likely Mr W agreed to the cover 
knowing he didnt have to. And I think it was right for him in his circumstances. So I think 
clearer information, if it had been needed, would only have confirmed this to him. I dont 
think its likely to have changed his decision to go ahead with the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman