DRN-4008735
The complaint
Mr S complains to Gallium Fund Solutions Limited about three bonds he invested into in 
2017. He says he was mis-sold the bonds as he was told they would be secure and invested 
in property, but all the money was lost. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr S made three investments into B&G Plc high yield bonds which compounded annually. 
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising/marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call 
BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium) from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ss investment in the bond
Mr S tells us that he first found the bonds when searching for investments online  hed 
previously invested primarily with building societies and into a mutual investment bond, but 
when interest rates fell his income fell too, so he began to look for something to help regain 
this. 
Mr S says he thought B&Gs bonds were middle of the market in terms of the interest theyd 
pay, and thinking theyd invest into property covering the investment at 1.25x, he thought his 
money would be safe. So in 2017, Mr S made three investments:
in August he invested £15,420 into a three year compounding high yield IFISA bond,
and a further £15,000 later in August, into a four year compounding high yield bond,
then in November, he invested £9,500 into another four year compounding high yield 
bond.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr S 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence relating to Mr Ss applications to invest in 
the bonds in question. Gallium has not provided us with any detail about Mr Ss applications 
in 2017  instead we have been sent a spreadsheet recording information about a fourth 
investment Mr S made in 2018 which isnt relevant to this complaint given it was outside of 
the period of time which Gallium were the appointed representative. 
This said, when Mr S invested in 2018 it appears he applied online and certified himself as 
being a high net worth investor. Given that investment was made only one year later and 
given what Mr S has told us about his finances in 2017, our investigator assumed the 2017 
investments to have been made similarly  in terms of them being made online, with Mr S 
certifying himself as a high net worth investor  and Gallium has not disagreed. 
Mr S told us he completed his applications online and recalls receiving a phone call from 
BG Ltd before completing the questions. We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with some, but they were all service and enquiry calls  importantly, 
none were pertinent to the sales of the investments, so the recordings have not been 
material in my consideration of this complaint.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification  which as I 
said above we can see was high net worth in 2018 and it has not been contested that this 
applied in 2017 too  and the second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for the performance of 
B&G and that it was clear there would be FSCS cover only in certain circumstances. It also 
said Mr S had been given sufficient information and risk warnings about the investment. 
It then made further submissions once Mr Ss complaint was referred to us. I have 
considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its 
position statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints 
about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
In respect of the certification process, from the information gathered about Mr Ss 
circumstances they found it likely he may have qualified as a high net worth 
investor. However, they still felt that in terms of the application process the 
assessment of his appropriateness for the bonds for him was misleading and didnt 
gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr S for the loss he has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ss complaint.It noted Mr S satisfied the high net worth criteria but felt the appropriateness test 
answers and confirmations were enough for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective 
investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the 
risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr S made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with them 
and did not chose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which warned 
of the concentration risk. So, he would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
Mr S has provided information about his circumstances at the time he invested in the 
bonds  this suggests he held sufficient assets to mean he could have qualified as a 
high net worth investor. Though we have limited evidence about his applications in 
2017, it is likely he applied for the bonds online as that would be consistent with 
Galliums general explanation of how investments were made and what we have 
seen in practice regarding other complaints. Mr Ss 2018 investment was made on 
the basis hed certified himself as being a high net worth investor. And in the 
absence of any disagreement by Gallium, it is seems possible, based on the 
information Mr S has provided, he certified as a high net worth investor in 2017 too. 
The wording used by BG Ltd for the high net worth investor category mirrored the
wording set out at 4.12.6R. So although it does not appear BG Ltd followed its 
obligations correctly and ascertained whether he met the certification criteria, had it 
have done so it seems Mr S would have been able to proceed with his applications.
This said, the appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did 
not meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr S as he didnt have the 
relevant knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved when investing 
into the bonds. In the circumstances Mr S would either not have proceeded or, acting 
fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond 
to Mr S.
For these reasons, my decision is that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied 
Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able 
to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And 
so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr S for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr S as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the 
bonds.
I think Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr S's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Gallium should ensure a separate calculation is carried out for each 
investment.Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
It is also clear that Mr S has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the 
loss of his investment. I do not believe Mr S foresaw such a drastic loss and I 
recognise the considerable worry he will have felt when B&G Plc failed. I consider a 
payment of £300 is fair compensation for the upset caused.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Three year 
compounding 
high yield 
IFISA bond 
dated 
August 
2017Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Four year 
compounding 
high yield 
bond dated 
August 
2017Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Four year 
compounding 
high yield 
bond dated 
November
2017Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman