DRN-4119018
The complaint
Miss H has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance failed to 
adequately repair her device, charged her two excesses and provided poor customer 
service.
 
What happened
In November 2022 Miss H contacted West Bay to report a faulty charger port on her iPhone 
and provided all the relevant documents. She paid the excess and sent off the device to the 
approved repairer.
When the phone was returned, the charging port was still faulty and so Miss H contacted 
West Bay about this on 29 November. They asked her to provide evidence and she sent 
photo and video evidence by e mail.
 
It was agreed on 30 November that the device should be returned to the repairer again. 
When they received it, they couldnt replicate the fault, but agreed that sometimes faults are 
intermittent. They offered to swap the internal hardware on the phone, and the phone  was 
shipped back to Miss H. She confirmed on 3 December that it was charging. 
On 19 January Miss H reported further issues with her phone, as the face ID wasnt working 
and the brightness was low. West Bay agreed to take the phone back again and opened a 
new claim. It was sent back to the repairers who advised that there was water damage to the 
phone, completed a repair, and sent it back on 6 February. Miss H paid a second excess for 
this. 
On its return, Miss H again complained that the phone wasnt working and that the parts 
used were flagging as non-genuine. It was sent back to the repairers again and was 
declared beyond economic repair. Miss H was offered a cash settlement for a new phone.  
Miss H complained. West Bay didnt uphold her complaint. They said that they had charged 
two excesses for two separate faults and followed their terms and conditions. Miss H was 
unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
said that whilst it was fair for West Bay to log two claims under the policy as there were two 
different faults, the service provided throughout was below the standard that Miss H should 
have received and so she thought West Bay should pay Miss H £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
West Bay disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
When the phone was first sent off for repair, there was only one fault which was with the 
charging port. I dont think its unreasonable for Miss H to expect that the fault would be 
resolved when she received the phone back. 
Although West Bay have confirmed the phone was working after the repair, it wasnt working 
when Miss H received it, and she has provided video evidence to support that. Even if the 
fault was intermittent as explained by the repairer, I cant accept that the repair was 
adequate if it was intermittent. 
I can see that West Bay did discuss this with Miss H and did their best to resolve it by having 
the phone back again and successfully resolving the issue. However, I can appreciate that 
this caused some inconvenience to Miss H as she uses her phone for work, and was having 
to use an older, temporary device. 
I can see then that the second time the phone was sent for repair it was for a different issue. 
The repairer identified that there was some water damage which had caused the issues and 
Ive seen the photographic evidence of the corrosion caused.  I appreciate that Miss H 
wasnt aware of any water damage having occurred, but this was identified when the phone 
was opened, and Miss H may not have been aware of a small amount of water ingress into 
her phone. It doesnt have to be a lot of water to cause damage to electronic devices. And so  
Im satisfied that this was a separate fault, and West Bay have acted fairly in charging a 
second excess.  
However, again the phone should have been fully functional when Miss H received it back. 
However, the face ID was no longer working, and the Apple store identified that there were 
irregularities on the display and the front camera housing was off centre  which may have 
been causing the issue with the face ID.  They also confirmed non genuine repair parts had 
been used. Although under the terms of the policy, non-genuine parts can be used, it still 
seems to me that this second repair was defective as the phone wasnt fully functioning. 
In the end, I think West Bay have acted fairly in replacing the phone. 
However, in terms of the repair process and the customer service provided, whilst I 
appreciate that West Bay did keep taking the phone back and offering to correct the issues, 
the whole process was very frustrating for Miss H, and to have two separate repairs done in 
a short space of time, both of which are inadequate falls below the level of service she 
should have expected and caused her inconvenience beyond that which I would expect. 
And so I agree with the investigator that an award for the trouble and upset caused is 
appropriate. 
Putting things right
I think that West Bay should pay Miss H £150 in respect of the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc trading as 
Zenith Insurance to put things right as above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman