DRN-2521556
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), in 2000. Mrs B says the 
cover was mis-sold to her because she wasnt told about it and she never agreed to it.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to C&G in my decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs B asked for it to be 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mrs B cant remember discussing MPPI, but of course, the meeting was over 20 years ago. 
On the other hand, Ive seen point of sale evidence that does tend to show MPPI was 
discussed and also that Mrs B agreed to buy it.
For example, on her Mortgage Application, I see there was a section about mortgage 
protection. Mrs Bs form contained a tick against a declaration which said I wish to apply 
for C&G Payment Protection Plus cover and have completed the relevant proposal form 
There was an alternative option to tick if she didnt want the cover and this option box was 
left blank. Mrs B then signed the application form.
It seems Mrs B then went on to complete a second and separate application form specifically 
relating to the MPPI, which she also signed. A separate direct debit instruction was agreed 
to and signed by Mrs B authorising the monthly MPPI fee from her bank account. 
So, I think all this represents strong evidence she asked for this type of cover with her 
mortgage and that she most likely did engage in a discussion about MPPI, even though she 
no longer remembers this. I think the correct consent was obtained.
Its not disputed that the MPPI was recommended as part of an advised sale. This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable. 
I think it was suitable.
I think this because Mrs B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. She was employed and I agree she would 
have probably had some sickness protection with her job. However, Im afraid this doesnt 
necessarily mean the MPPI wasnt of use. The mortgage was secured against Mrs Bs home 
and so the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have been 
serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid the mortgage for up to 
12 months. This would have been in addition to the other means she already had in place. I 
therefore dont think recommending MPPI was unreasonable.
C&G also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm after such a long time what would have been said at the meeting(s) and its possible 
C&G could have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, the 
disclosure of information looks relatively comprehensive. I see she was given a schedule 
explaining the cost, who was covered and what was covered. I therefore think Mrs B had 
enough information on which to make an informed choice about what she wanted to do.
Im sorry to disappoint her, but I dont think the MPPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman