DRN-2581989
The complaint
Mr M complains that, in 2003, Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr M had had a bank account with Barclays since April 1989. This was at first fee free, but in 
2003 it was upgraded to an Additions PBA which, at the time, had a monthly fee of £7.50. 
This came with a number of benefits, including car breakdown cover and an £250 interest-
free overdraft with preferential rate above this; also purchase protection cover, cardholder 
protection, extended warranty, will writing service, and 24-hour legal advice.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr M didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was aware of the fee, but that the benefits were not suitable for his needs, 
and that Barclays didnt carry out its responsibilities to him as a customer. He says he had 
a company car and so didnt need breakdown insurance. He says he didnt make regular 
use of the overdraft. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays 2003 recommendation of the PBA to Mr M was an 
appropriate one, in his circumstances; and whether its likely Mr M had enough 
information to decide to take the PBA.
Barclays says Mr M used an overdraft on 11 days in the 6 months before the PBA started 
in 2003, and on 18 days in the 12 months after it started. So this does suggest that the 
interest free features of the PBA might have been useful to him. And its reasonably 
possible some of the other features of the account could have been potentially useful to 
him.
So I think Barclays recommendation would have been appropriate; and it would then 
have been up to Mr M to decide if he wanted to accept the recommendation and upgrade 
to the PBA. 
I think its important to note that Mr M had had a fee-free account for many years before 
the PBA started in 2003, and that hes said he was aware of the fee for the PBA. So hed 
have known that he could have continued with his normal fee-free account. And I think its 
likely hed only have chosen to start paying a fee if he thought the benefits, and the 
convenience of the packaged account, were worth the cost. 
Even if some of the benefits were of little interest to Mr M, its unlikely hed have decided 
to start paying a fee unless there was something of value to him. It would have been up to 
him, and not Barclays, to decide whether the benefits and convenience of the packaged 
account was worth the cost. As with any purchase, different people might reach a different 
decision on whether something was worth the price to them personally. 
Similarly, it would have been Mr Ms responsibility to decide whether it continued to be of 
value to him, in the years that followed. I dont see that, in the circumstances, Barclays 
had a responsibility to check with Mr M whether he still wanted the PBA, or to suggest he 
shop around for alternative accounts  it would have been up to Mr M to research the 
market and also to cancel the arrangement.
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman