DRN-3929594
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I are unhappy with the premiums and excess set by AXA Insurance UK plc 
following a subsidence claim.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr and Mrs I got in touch with AXA in November 2020 to make a claim for 
subsidence damage to their home.
AXA accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs I had the work carried out and a cash 
settlement was agreed. The payment was made in November 2022.
Mr and Mrs I told AXA about further damage and a second subsidence claim was 
recorded in March 2022. AXA began investigating it.
At the April 2021 and 2022 policy renewals, AXA increased the premiums and 
subsidence excess. Mr and Mrs I didnt think this was fair and complained.
AXA didnt respond to that complaint. But it later provided this Service with an 
explanation. In short, it said it had based the excess increases on its underwriting 
criteria and the claim reserve  the amounts spent and expected to be spent on the 
claim  at the time of each renewal. And it provided detailed premium calculations.
Our investigator was satisfied the premium increases were correct. But she didnt 
think the excess increase was and asked AXA to reduce it.
AXA provided further underwriting comments to challenge what our investigator had 
said. But our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A separate complaint has considered the way AXA handled the subsidence claim, 
including the cash settlement. So I wont be considering that again. Nor will I be 
considering the way AXA handled the second claim.
Ill focus on the increases to the premiums and excess after the first claim. At the 
time the complaint was submitted to this Service, that included the April 2021 and 
2022 renewals only.
I understand AXA hasnt offered to renew the policy this year. As our investigator has 
explained, this issue is outside the scope of this complaint. Mr and Mrs I are entitled 
to raise it with AXA and, if its not resolved to their satisfaction, they may be able to 
refer it to this Service for review.
Once a property has suffered subsidence, its usually significantly more difficult to 
insure on normal terms. Generally, consumers are likely to find insurers dont offer 
cover at all. Or, if they do, only at a considerably increased premium and/or excess. 
As a result, it can be very difficult for consumers in these circumstances to find home 
insurance which provides subsidence cover at an affordable price.
Thats why the Association of British Insurers (ABI) provides guidance to insurers 
within the home insurance industry about this. In summary, if an insurer deals with a 
subsidence claim for a policyholder, the guidance says its usually good practice for 
the insurer to offer continuous home insurance, including subsidence cover, on 
reasonable terms. But it notes that all decisions on pricing and terms and conditions 
remain at the discretion of individual insurers. And there may be situations in which 
an insurer wouldnt be expected to offer continued cover  although this is rare.
The crux of this dispute is whether the premium and excess increases imposed by 
AXA amount to reasonable terms, bearing in mind AXAs own approach to premium 
and excess setting in these circumstances.
Excess
Prior to the claim, the subsidence excess was £1,000. At the 2021 renewal, AXA 
increased it to £10,000 based on the reserve for the first claim. It maintained it at this 
amount at the 2022 renewal based on the reserve for the first and second claims.
Taking into account the claim values and AXAs own underwriting criteria, Im 
satisfied the subsidence excess ought to have been £5,000 at each renewal. That 
would fairly reflect the risk to AXA, bearing in mind accurate claim values.
Mr and Mrs I have accepted that, and AXA hasnt challenged it.
This doesnt impact the value of the separate, voluntary excess.
Premiums
The overall policy premium was around £550 in 2020, prior to the claim. In 2021 that 
increased to around £1,050 and in 2022 to around £1,900.
AXA has sent detailed premium information to this Service. Its clear these premium 
values were automatically calculated according to AXAs own underwriting criteria. 
Because of that, Im satisfied theyre correct.
The ABI guidance means the premiums should be reasonable, not merely correct.
The premium information shows the more significant increase in 2022 was only 
partially as a result of the buildings insurance premium. Given a second subsidence 
claim had been recorded at that point, a premium increase doesnt seem 
unreasonable. Other factors, unrelated to subsidence, also contributed to the 
increase to a similar degree.
Overall, Im satisfied the premium increases were fair in the circumstances.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK plc to:
Reduce the subsidence excess at the 2021 and 2022 renewals to £5,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman