DRN-3968147
The complaint
Mr S complains that his loan account was defaulted when it should not have been. Mr S 
holds Metro Bank Plc (Metro Bank) responsible for this.
What happened
In late 2021 Mr S was having some money troubles, as a result of this Mr S was having 
difficulties making repayments to his loan account that is administered by Metro Bank. 
Therefore, Mr S contacted Metro Bank to see what it could do to help him.  According to Mr 
S, Metro Bank agreed to put his account on hold until the end of March 2022. During this 
period Mr S by agreement with Metro Bank was not making repayments on his loan. But he 
expected to catch up on his repayments once his money troubles were over.
However, without any warning Metro Bank defaulted his account. Mr S tells us Metro Bank 
says it tried to contact him several times, before it defaulted his account, but he only has one 
missed call/voicemail from Metro Bank, and these were received on the date the account 
was defaulted.
Once the account was defaulted it was passed to a debt collection agency. Mr S tells us 
Metro Bank has not been willing to discuss a repayment plan with him. Moreover, Metro 
Banks actions have caused him to experience significant levels of anxiety.
To put things right Mr S wants Metro Bank to reinstate his account and agree a repayment 
plan with him.
Mr S complained to Metro Bank about its treatment of him.
Metro Bank saw things very differently to Mr S. It did not accept that theyd agreed between 
them that Mr Ss account would be put on hold until the end of March 2022. Rather it had an 
alternative timeline of events which goes as follows. 
In December 2021 Mr S contacted Metro Bank to let it know he was experiencing temporary 
financial difficulties. Hed already missed his repayment for November 2021. But Mr S 
explained that he was about to start a new job in a few weeks time but until he started that 
role and got paid hed not be able to make his repayments. He said hed not get paid until 
the end of January 2022, but hed make a repayment then and also catch up on his arrears. 
Therefore, Metro Bank agreed to put Mr Ss account on hold until 1 February 2022. It told 
him it would get in touch with him then. Metro Bank tried to contact Mr S on 1 February, but it 
got no response.
By 2 February no payment had been received, and Mr Ss account was no longer on hold. 
Metro Bank issued a default notice at this point. The notice was sent by post. In response to 
this default notice Mr S contacted Metro Bank by phone. Mr S and Metro Bank discussed Mr 
Ss account. Mr S told Metro Bank he was not able yet to start making his repayments again 
and pay off his arrears, but he would be soon. Specifically, Mr S said he was going to be 
paid now at the end of February. So it was agreed that Mr Ss account would again be put on 
hold until 4 March. But because of the level of arrears on Mr Ss account Metro Bank sent a 
second default notice to Mr S on 14 February 2022, again by post.
However, by 4th March 2022, Metro Bank had not received any payment, so it again 
removed the hold from Mr Ss account. Metro Bank tried to contact Mr S on 4 March by text, 
but I did not receive a response. It indicates it wanted to give Mr S one last opportunity to 
bring his repayments up-to-date, so it held off from defaulting the account for a further ten 
days. However, it defaulted the account on 14 March 2022 when it had heard nothing further 
from Mr S.
During the period between December 2022 and 14 March 2022 Metro Bank tells us it sent 
text messages, voice mails and emails to encourage Mr S to contact it.  It indicates it made it 
clear in its communications what might happen to Mr Ss account if the arrears were not 
cleared and if repayments did not start again once the holding period was over.
Metro Bank does not agree it has acted unfairly and declines to reinstate Mr Ss account and 
agree to a repayment plan. 
Dissatisfied with Metro Banks response Mr S complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
We received no response from Metro Bank to our investigators recommendation, but Mr S 
let us know he rejected it. Mr S repeated his previous stance and told us that Metro Banks 
decision to default his account had had an adverse impact on his previously good credit 
rating.
Mr S asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
There is no disagreement between the parties that Metro Bank agreed it would put Mr Ss 
account on hold. Where they do disagree is about how long that hold was meant to last and 
how, if at all, Metro Bank communicated with Mr S. They also disagree about whether Metro 
Bank gave Mr S enough information so that he ought reasonably to have been aware what 
would most likely happen if his account was not brought up to date when the holding period 
ended. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr S was experiencing financial difficulties in a situation like this Metro Bank is expected to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration. However, this is a two-way process and both 
parties need to co-operate and play their part. With the cooperation of the customer, 
showing forbearance and due consideration may include developing repayment plans or 
accepting reduced payments, freezing/refunding interest, or even writing off all or part of the 
debt. But no individual lender is obliged to do any of these things, even if other institutions 
have taken such a course of action. Rather it simply means that Metro Bank should have 
tried to work with Mr S to help him manage his money.
What type of help might be appropriate depends on the circumstances. However, in this 
situation it is not entirely clear if Mr Ss financial difficulties were short term or longer lasting. 
Mr S talks of a repayment plan which suggests he is and was not in a position to make his full monthly repayments, so putting the account on hold temporarily wasnt going to help in 
the long run. Whereas Metro Banks records show Mr S told it his money problems would be 
resolved shortly once he started his new job and got paid. In the circumstances, I dont find it 
likely that Metro Banks records would be inaccurate about what Mr S told it
Moreover, Mr S has not said that Metro Banks account of giving him breathing space due 
to his job situation, in December 2021 and again in January 2022 is incorrect. Therefore, in 
that context putting the account of hold while Mr S got back on his feet financially does seem 
a reasonable approach. 
But one of the key issues here is how long was this breathing space meant to last? I note 
on each of the occasions it seems that the hold on the account was agreed for one month in 
order to fit in with Mr Ss anticipated pay day for his new role. Metro Banks records indicate 
that it spoke to Mr S on 2 February 2022. Its records indicate it agreed to keep Mr Ss 
account on hold for one further month. But Mr Ss position is that he was given almost two 
months that is from 2 February until 31 March. This would have been a change from the 
previous pattern.  It would also most likely have meant that the account would have accrued 
one extra month of arrears. I find it unlikely given the arrears on the account already that 
Metro Bank would have wanted to let the arrears mount up like this. In all the circumstances, 
I find it likely that Metro Bank agreed to place the account on hold until the 2 March 2022 not 
until the end of March as Mr S tells us. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr S 
contacted Metro Bank at this point or made a payment.
That said, Mr S also complains that Metro Bank did not give him any notice before his 
account was terminated or explain that this was a possibility beforehand. However, Metro 
Banks records show it contacted Mr S via voicemail, text message, email and post I dont 
find it likely that its contact records are inaccurate. The content of those messages I think 
gave Mr S sufficient information about what might happen to his account if the arrears 
continued to accrue and repayments did not restart, once the holding period was over. Also, 
I dont find it likely that all of these various different contact methods all failed to reach him. 
According to Metro Banks contact records, it appears Mr S had conversations with Metro 
Bank where he discusses at least one letter he had received telling him about the arrears 
and the possible actions that could be taken if he does not make up the arrears. And each 
time a hold on the account was agreed it seems the parties also went over what could 
happen should the account not be brought up to date. 
Further, it seems Mr S and Metro Bank both agree that there were more than three months 
of arrears on the account. Which is sufficient arrears according to relevant guidance and 
under the terms of the loan agreement for an account to be defaulted.
For all of these reasons, I dont find that Metro Bank acted unfairly in terminating Mr Ss 
account when and how it did. It follows I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman