DRN-2888538
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car supplied to him by Oodle Financial Services Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr O took a car from Oodle under a five-year hire purchase arrangement. 
The agreement recorded that the car had been first registered in September 2013 and that 
its price was just under £17,000. It had covered some 45,000 miles. The sales invoice also 
recorded that Mr O traded in his existing car for £13,000 and that it had outstanding finance 
of just under £16,000. Once this was taken into account, Oodle provided finance of a little 
under £20,000.
Soon afterwards Mr O says that he noticed faults with the car. These included poor 
paintwork, a flickering interior light, a ripped seat and a broken drivers door handle. He 
contacted the dealership which said he should have repairs done under warranty. Mr O says 
that he was unable to arrange this and that his relationship with the dealership has broken 
down.
When Mr O was unable to get assistance from the dealership, he contacted Oodle. He 
provided Oodle with inspection reports outlining the problems with the car. He also provided 
photographs of it. After further discussion with the dealership, Oodle said that it was not 
responsible for cosmetic issues. Other matters could be referred to the warranty provider.
Mr O referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered the 
complaint. She agreed with Mr O that the car had not been of satisfactory quality and that he 
should be able to reject it. Oodle did not accept that view. It said that most of the issues with 
the car were cosmetic only. The problem with the interior light was likely to be down to wear 
and tear. The only mechanical issue was a reported knocking from the front suspension; 
there was however no information about what might be causing it and the indications were 
that it was not present at delivery. Oodle asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said that most of the issues about 
which Mr O had complained were cosmetic in nature and were matters which ought to have 
been apparent when Mr O inspected the car. Other issues appeared to be matters of wear 
and tear  that is, they were the type of issue that might have been expected in a car of the 
age and mileage of the car in this case. I was not persuaded that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at delivery. 
Mr O did not accept my provisional findings. He said that as it had been raining when he 
collected the car he had not had a proper chance to inspect the paintwork and that it had got 
progressively worse. He noted too that an inspection had reported brake fluid contamination 
and oil leaks.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 9 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mr Os contract with Oodle was to be 
treated as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. Goods are of 
satisfactory quality if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, taking into account all the circumstances (subsection 2). The quality of goods 
includes in appropriate circumstances appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and durability (subsection 3). Where a consumer examines goods before the contract is 
made, it does not cover anything which that examination ought to reveal (subsection 4). 
There is no real doubt that the car was not perfect in some respects. That does not mean 
however that it did not conform to the contractual requirement that it be of satisfactory 
quality. It was a used car and around six years old when Mr O acquired it. A reasonable 
person would not have expected it to be entirely free of faults in the same way as a new car. 
I note what Mr O has said about the weather when he collected the car and how this affected 
his ability to carry out a proper inspection. Nevertheless, I do not believe that it would be fair 
to hold Oodle liable for matters which an inspection ought to have revealed. In my view that 
inspection ought to have revealed the poor paintwork which has been reported, as well as 
the defective door handle. 
As I have indicated, I must take into account the cars age and mileage when considering 
whether it conformed to the requirement that it be of satisfactory quality. I indicated in my 
provisional decision that I thought that some matters  a knocking from the suspension, worn 
tyres and a split wiper blade  were matters of wear and tear. I cannot fairly conclude that 
they meant the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr O raised the issue of brake fluid and engine oil. 
There is mention of low fluid levels and an oil leak in inspection reports. There is however no 
indication of how or when those issues might have developed. Oodle had suggested that Mr 
O look to the cars warranty provider to deal with the issues with it, but Mr O appears to have 
been unwilling to take that step. I do not however believe that there is sufficient evidence for 
me to conclude either that these issues were present or developing at the point of supply of 
the car or that they meant that it was not of satisfactory quality.               
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to do anything further to resolve Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 
30 July 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman