DRN-3564345
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMWFS) terminated a finance agreement he had with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C and I sympathise with the very difficult time hes clearly been 
through but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Were BMWFS reasonable when they terminated the agreement?
The finance agreement required Mr C to insure the car comprehensively and in his own 
name. Mr C couldnt get insurance or drive the car himself after he surrendered his license 
due to illness. So, there was a breach of contract in that respect that BMWFS could have 
terminated the contract for.
The finance agreement also explained that if Mr C didnt keep up with payments BMWFS 
may be entitled to terminate the agreement. By the time the agreement was terminated Mr C 
was over £3,000 in arrears and thered been a history of missed payments on the account. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. Mr C was more than 
three months behind, so I think BMWFS were reasonable when applying a default.
Was the default fairly served?
I understand that Mr C had told BMWFS hed been unreasonably evicted but he hadnt 
provided an alternative address and BMWFS couldnt amend his address until he had one. 
Whilst they did respond to Mr Cs situation by sending emails instead of letters they were 
compelled to send a letter to confirm the default. Mr C understandably says he didnt receive 
that letter, but he was clearly aware the account was about to be defaulted and BMWFS did 
speak to him a couple of weeks later. Im persuaded at least at that point that Mr C was 
aware of the default and its implications as he discussed the potential to sell the car with the 
business. 
Did BMWFS show forbearance?
Id expect BMWFS to show forbearance and be sympathetic and supportive once they were 
made aware of Mr Cs financial circumstances and his ill health. But I think they were. Thats 
because I can see they tried for several months to obtain details of Mr Cs insurance and his 
license to drive and they also allowed some arrears to build up when they could have 
terminated the account earlier. I wouldnt expect the business to allow arrears to build up too 
much on the account as this would put undue pressure on Mr C to meet financial 
commitments he clearly couldnt meet in the long term.
Overall, Im afraid I dont think BMWFS have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman