DRN-2675495
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Standard Life Assurance Limited (SLAL). They say
that it authorised a payment from their self-invested personal pension (SIPP) without their
consent in 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a SIPP with SLAL, funds from the SIPP were used to lease a commercial
property. Mr and Mrs S are partners in a business which is a tenant of the property.
Mr and Mrs S say that an unauthorised payment was made from their SIPP in February
2018 when service charges for the property were paid by SLALs agent. They say that the
service charges had been disputed for some time, that some of the charges were unlawful
and some of the amounts required to be paid were statute barred. Efforts to recover the
sums paid werent successful.
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint in March 2019.
SLAL didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the property is owned by Standard Life Trustee
Company (SLTC) and the charges relating to the property were payable by SLTC from the
SIPP. The charges had been paid by its managing agent, but it had agreed that no further
charges would be paid until the dispute about the services was resolved.
SLAL said that its managing agent hadnt been aware of any dispute about the charges
when it made the payment. It would put payments on hold but begin to pay them again if
there was a threat of legal action.
The complaint was referred to this service where it was considered by an investigator. She
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She decided that SLAL acted reasonably by
authorising the payment of the service charges. It was acting in line with the terms of the
SIPP and the property lease agreement.
She said the December 2009 lease agreement and the October 2016 counterpart lease
agreement stated the landlord as SLTC and the tenant as Mr and Mrs S (on the 2016 lease).
The SIPP terms and conditions said, the trustee will own all of the investments held for
[them] under the scheme.
Clause 50.2 of the 2016 lease confirmed that Standard Life holds the property as a trustee
of the scheme for the members funds
So, she was satisfied that the property held in Mr and Mrs Ss SIPP is owned by SLTC, as
per the SIPP terms. And the SIPP booklet clearly stated SLTCs role with regards to
properties which include an element of landlord liability, there are occasions where
responsibility for parts of the property remains with Standard Life as landlord.. Examples of
this included common areas.
The investigator noted that the booklet stated that SLALs management tasks included
paying any invoices charged to the SIPP and that:
All invoices for payment should be addressed to Standard Life Trustee Company Limited
and sent to our Property Manager. who must confirm that it is appropriate for the invoice to
be paid..
The management company in charge of the property sent an invoice to the property
manager which was addressed to SLTC in February 2018. This apparently related to the
service charges due on the property. The invoice was paid.
The investigator concluded that;
there is no evidence to suggest that SLTC/SLAL were required to consult with Mr and 
Mrs S before paying the service charge. According to the SIPP booklet, SLTC only 
had to liaise with its agent about the invoice it received.
the evidence shows that the service charge was deemed lawful by the agent, and so 
it was acting reasonably when it paid it.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said that the property is held on trust and so clearly SLAL
owe a duty of care. The SIPP has suffered a loss and there is no recourse. Some of the
demands were over six years old and statute barred.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments and made a provisional decision. I 
said:
I agree with the investigator although some of my reasoning is slightly different, and so Ive
made this provisional decision.
Although Mr and Mrs S are the SIPP holders, the property is owned by SLAL. SLALs
ownership of the property included the authority (and obligation) for it, and its agent, to pay
invoices relating to the property. It wasnt under any obligation to consult with Mr and Mrs S
about every payment it made. Although it may owe a duty of care and a fiduciary duty, I think
that would extend to making payments promptly and so avoiding the risk of penalties for late
payment, debt, or litigation.
So far as Im aware, theres no suggestion that SLAL was aware of any dispute about the
service charges when it made the payment (through its agent). Therefore, I dont think it was
acting unreasonably when it did so.
Mr and Mrs S say there is a loss to the SIPP. That may be true, but my understanding is that
the tenants of the property are obliged to reimburse SLAL for the service charges. There
would be no loss to the SIPP if the charges are recovered from the tenants.
Mr and Mrs S seem to dispute that the service charges were payable and seem to question
the validity of the charges. But essentially any question of the validity of the service charges
is a matter to be resolved between SLAL, the management company, and Mr and Mrs S in
their capacity as tenants of the property (and not in their capacity as SIPP holders). This
service has no remit to make any assessment of the validity of the service charges. That is,
effectively, a landlord/tenant issue and doesnt relate to the provision of financial services,
such as managing the SIPP.
If there had been some determination that the service charges werent valid, or shouldnt be
paid, then SLAL could be criticised for paying them, and may have been acting outside itsauthority when it did so. But so far as Im aware, no determination like this has been made.
And as Ive said, its not a determination this service can or will make.
Any loss to the SIPP will be avoided if the service charges are recovered from the tenants. If
the service charges werent payable that needs to be resolved between the tenants, SLAL
and the management company that raised the charges. Its not an issue for this service.
Im not satisfied that SLAL was acting unreasonably, unfairly, or beyond its authority when it
paid the service charges.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said, in summary:
The comment that SLAL wasnt under any obligation to consult with Mr and Mrs S 
about every payment it made was the nub of the matter. The invoices forwarded to 
SLAL were all of some age and no such previous invoices had ever been rendered to 
SLAL since its acquisition of the property.
At the very least SLAL should have made enquiry as to why they had only been 
rendered to it years after the invoice dates.
The tenants have not been requested by SLAL to reimburse the SIPP for the service 
charges paid. The tenants will not do so because the sums are not lawfully due. They 
were in part statute barred and largely not payable because the works for which the 
charges were made were not within the ambit of the responsibilities of the entity 
which sought and procured payment. 
The tenants have no contractual relationship with the management company.
SLAL stated that once the property managers became aware that there was a dispute about 
the service charges payments had been stopped. Any loss to the SIPP was temporary until 
the tenants paid the service charges. Concerns had been raised about issues like 
maintenance of common areas including landscaping, but only after these charges were 
paid. The managing agents didnt inspect the premises.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision which Ive summarised above. 
Although these responses have been summarised, Ive read and considered everything. 
Having done so, Ive not changed my provisional conclusions.
I agree with Mr and Mrs S that the nub of this matter is whether SLAL was under any 
obligation to consult with them before it made the payments. Im not satisfied that it was.  
SLALs ownership of the property included the authority (and obligation) for it, and its agent, 
to pay invoices relating to the property. It wasnt under any obligation to consult with Mr and 
Mrs S about every payment it made. Theres no evidence that SLAL or its agents were 
aware of any dispute about the service charges when the payments were made. There is no 
evidence that any of the tenants had raised concerns before the payments were made. 
Whilst some enquiry could have been made, I dont think SLAL (or its agents) were acting 
unreasonably or outside the scope of its discretion when it made the payments without doing 
so. I think that was a judgement it was entitled to make.
For these reasons, and for those set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman