DRN-3977864
The complaint
Mr D complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with his claim when he was involved 
in an accident. 
What happened
Mr D has insurance for his car with AXA. In May 2022 he was involved in an accident and 
made a claim on his policy. AXA have told us that Mr D registered his claim with them on 13 
May 2022. They wrote to him on 14 May 2022 advising him that they were arranging for his 
car to be taken to storage and it would then be inspected. 
AXA say Mr D then told them hed decided to claim through a case management company 
and withdrew his complaint. So they wrote to him on 23 May 2022 advising him theyd 
closed his claim, as hed told them he wasnt making a claim for the damage to his car.
He contacted them again on 15 June 2022 saying that he wished to reopen his claim. Mr D 
was unhappy about long delays in getting through to AXA when he called them. They 
apologised for this and paid him £50 compensation. When he got through Mr D was advised 
that his car had been inspected and deemed a total loss by AXAs agents. On 16 June 2022 
Mr D contacted AXA as he was unhappy that his car had been written off. And he wanted 
confirmation that the car wouldnt be scrapped.
Mr D also told AXA that he believed the other driver was responsible for the accident but 
wouldnt admit fault as this would increase their insurance premium.
AXA told Mr D that their agents had carried out a desktop inspection, based of images 
provided of his car, and they were satisfied that based on the damage, and the cars age, it 
was a Category N total loss. So if he wanted to keep the car he could, but their agents hadnt 
been able to reach a settlement with him, as he felt his £450 policy excess shouldnt be 
applied. 
AXA told Mr D as hed made a claim his policy excess was chargeable but might be 
recoverable from the other drivers insurers if liability was admitted.
Mr D contacted AXA in July 2022 saying that he thought his car was repairable and wanted 
their engineers to call him. He was advised that this wasnt the process and as his car had 
been deemed a total loss, he need to obtain his own estimate and send it to them, for their 
engineers to review.
Mr D hasnt obtained his own estimate and the car remains in his possession.
Mr D raised a complaint about the deduction of his policy excess which AXA didnt uphold. 
They said his claim was being handled correctly and as hed made a claim his policy excess 
was applicable. They also said their liability team was chasing the other drivers insurers and 
would contact him once they heard from them.
On 17 August 2022 AXA wrote to Mr D advising him that they were unable to dispute liability 
for the accident. They said he was in the wrong lane for his intended exit, and as he had a 
duty to ensure it was safe for him to take his exit, he would be found responsible for the 
accident. And they said they intended to settle the other drivers claim on the best possible 
terms. 
Mr D wasnt happy with AXAs response to his complaint and complained to our service.
Mr D then raised a further complaint with AXA as he didnt accept the decision theyd made 
on liability. He maintained that the other driver was responsible for the accident as theyd cut 
across the path of his vehicle.
AXA issued a further final response letter to Mr D on 3 November 2022. In this they said that 
while they understood he was unhappy with their decision to accept liability for the accident, 
the evidence hed provided wasnt enough for them to defend the case if it went to court. 
They said his car was in the wrong lane for his intended exit, he had a duty of care to ensure 
that it was safe to exit the roundabout, and the other driver was in the correct lane for their 
intended exit, so he would be found responsible for the accident.
They also reminded Mr D that they reserved the right to settle the claim as they saw fit and 
they followed the correct procedure. Mr D had questioned the amount AXA had settled the 
other drivers claim for. They provided a breakdown of the amounts theyd paid but didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. He didnt think AXA 
had acted unfairly in not defending liability for the accident. And he thought AXA had acted 
fairly in deeming Mr Ds car a total loss and in telling him that his policy excess was payable.
He said AXA had considered evidence from the other driver and their agents, whod 
assessed the vehicle damage, in reaching their liability decision and our investigator thought 
this was fair. And Mr Ds policy gave them authority, once a claim had been made, to take 
over the claim and defend or settle it as they saw fit.
He also reviewed the evidence AXA had considered before deeming Mr Ds vehicle a total 
loss and said this had been done correctly. Mr D wanted to keep the car but didnt want to 
pay his policy excess which our investigator said was correctly due under the terms of Mr 
Ds policy.
Our investigator said Mr B had faced long wait times in calling AXA on 15 June 2022 to 
advise them he wanted to proceed with his claim. But AXA had apologised for this and paid 
him £50 compensation, which our investigator considered fair.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Communication/Delay
AXA have accepted that Mr D faced a long delay when he called to speak to them on 15 
June 2022. Theyve apologised for this and paid Mr D £50 compensation which I consider to 
be fair. 
Mr D is unhappy that his claim for his car is still outstanding. AXA have told Mr D that they consider the car to be a total loss. They also confirmed that if he wanted to keep the car he 
could do so, as it was a category N total loss. But it hasnt been possible to reach agreement 
with him as he wont accept that his £450 policy excess needs to be taken into account in 
any settlement.
Mr Ds policy clearly sets out that if a claim is made AXA may choose to repair or pay an 
amount equal to the loss. And We will not pay and more than the market value of your car 
at the time of the loss less any excesses. Mr Ds policy excess of £450 is clearly set out on 
his policy schedule. So he should have been aware that if he made a claim his excess would 
either by payable by him or would be deducted from any settlement. 
While Mr D has told AXA that he believes his car is repairable, he hasnt provided them with 
any engineering evidence to confirm this. Even though they told him was required for their 
decision that his car was a total loss to be reconsidered. 
Because of this I dont think that AXA are responsible for the delay in settling Mr Ds claim. 
And I cant see any reason why AXA should agree to waive Mr Ds policy excess.
Liability 
Its not my role to decide who was responsible for an accident. What I have to consider is 
whether AXA carried out a reasonable investigation of the accident circumstances before 
reaching their decision on liability.
Its also important to note that Mr Ds policy gives AXA authority to take over a claim and 
settle or defend it as they see fit. Mr D agreed to this when he took out his policy.
The accident happened on a roundabout. Mr D told AXA that the other driver was in the 
outside lane, the wrong lane for the exit she intended to take, and collided with his car as 
she cut across his path to take the exit she wanted. 
The other drivers insurers told AXA that this wasnt correct. They said their driver was in the 
left-hand lane and Mr D was in the right-hand lane. The diagram of the accident Mr D 
provided to AXA confirms that these were the positions of the vehicles prior to the accident. 
The other drivers insurers say that Mr D collided with their drivers vehicle when he cut 
across her path to take his intended exit. And that the damage to both vehicles confirms this. 
AXA considered photographs of the damage to both vehicles and concluded that these 
confirmed the other drivers account of the accident. Looking at those photographs the 
damage to Mr Ds vehicle is to the passenger side. And the damage to the other vehicle is to 
the drivers door. So I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to say that this confirmed the 
other drivers account of the accident, especially as Mr Ds diagram shows her vehicle in the 
left-hand lane.
AXA considered what Mr D said about the lane markings and said that before he took his 
intended exit, he needed to ensure it was safe to do so, which he hadnt done as he collided 
with the other vehicle.
I think AXA reviewed all the available evidence before reaching their decision on liability. 
Which is what Id expect them to do. So Im not persuaded that they did anything wrong in 
accepting liability for the accident.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman