DRN-3390999
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the delay Highway insurance Company Limited caused and the 
cash settlement offer it made when he made a claim under his specialist vehicle insurance 
policy.
All reference to the insurer Highway in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B damaged his motorhome and made a claim to his insurer, Highway in April 2021. 
Highway arranged for Mr Bs motorhome to be inspected by an engineer. Highway accepted 
Mr Bs claim and said Mr B could arrange for his motorhome to be repaired. Mr B told 
Highway that the parts required to repair his motorhome were no longer available as they 
were no longer being made. Highway couldnt find the parts to repair Mr Bs motorhome. So 
it wasnt possible for Mr Bs motorhome to be repaired. 
In July 2021 Mr B asked for an update on his claim, but Highway didnt respond until 
December 2021. In January 2022 Highway made a cash in lieu (CIL) offer to Mr B for the 
estimated costs of the repairs which came to £2,870.  
In February 2022 Highway upheld Mr Bs complaint for failing to provide him with any 
updates on his claim between July 2021 and December 2021. For the delay it caused, it 
offered Mr B £450 compensation.  
Our Investigator thought Highway should indemnify Mr B. He didnt think that providing a CIL 
payment for the costs of the repairs  when it wasnt possible to repair Mr Bs motorhome 
without the parts  was enough. So as it wasnt possible to repair Mr Bs motorhome, the 
Investigator recommended Highway pay the market value for Mr Bs motorhome. This was 
based on a valuation provided by an engineer who inspected Mr Bs motorhome and valued 
it at £22,000.
Highway didnt agree. It said its terms and conditions are clear that it will settle as a CIL 
payment where it is unable to carry out the repairs. 
So as Highway didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Highway caused a significant delay in its handling of Mr Bs claim,. 
Its claim notes show that Mr B made it aware that parts were unavailable for his motorhome 
in July 2021. But Highway didnt take any action until December 2021. I think the 
compensation Highway offered for its delay of £450 is reasonable and in line with awards we 
make for similar cases. 
The purpose of Mr Bs insurance policy is to provide indemnity in the event of a claim. 
Highway accepted Mr Bs claim to repair his motorhome. 
The key sections of Mr Bs policy with Highway says:
Claims
How We may pay Your claim
We may:
pay for the damage to be repaired; or
give You an amount to replace the lost or damaged vehicle or item; or
replace Your Vehicle or any item.
If Your policy is not Agreed Value the most We will pay will be:
i) the market value of Your Vehicle just before the loss or damage (including its
accessories and spare parts); or
ii) the cost of repairing Your Vehicle but not exceeding the market value
and;
Unavailable Parts or accessories
If any lost or damaged part or accessory is no longer available, the most We will
pay will be the cost shown in the manufacturers last price list, and the reasonable
cost of fitting.
We will not pay for the whole cost of any repair or replacement that leaves Your
Vehicle in a better condition that it was before the loss or damage. If this happens
You will have to pay part of the cost of repair or replacement.
Ive looked at the engineers assessment of Mr Bs motorhome. They wrote that the 
motorhome wasnt roadworthy. 
Even though Highways policy has a term for unavailable parts - I dont think in this case that 
its fair for Highway to apply it  as it leaves Mr B in a worse position. I dont think its a fair or 
reasonable outcome for Mr B to be left with an unroadworthy motorhome that isnt possible 
to repair when he has a valid claim.  
So in this case I think the only reasonable alternative is for Highway to indemnify Mr B by 
paying him the market value for his motorhome  based on the engineers valuation  of 
£22,000 , minus any settlement offer its already paid if Mr B has cashed such settlement. Mr 
Bs motorhome will then become the property of Highway. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
settle Mr Bs claim by paying the market value of £22,000 minus any cash in lieu 
settlement already paid and cashed by Mr B. 
pay interest on the settlement sum at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the 
date of the claim to the date it pays Mr B.
pay Mr B a total of £450 compensation (if it hasnt already paid it) for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its poor service and delay. 
Highway Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Highway Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman