DRN-2101956
The complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card which was taken out during a 
phone call in October 2000. The PPI covered Mrs P if she couldnt work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that AXA 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Ps attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
AXA didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt think Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. I set out my reasons as follows:
AXA had to make Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. The PPI was taken out during a phone call after Mrs D had successfully 
applied for the card in store. So she must reasonably have known she didnt have to 
have PPI. Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that the optionality of the product 
wasnt made clear. So, overall, I think AXA made Mrs P aware that the PPI was 
optional and she chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide 
if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But if Mrs P had been given clearer information, I think she would 
still have taken the policy.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Mrs 
P told us shed been diagnosed with a condition around 17 years before she was 
sold the policy. We asked Mrs P to tell us a bit more about this. Not surprisingly, she 
cant remember the exact circumstances of her diagnosis. But shes told us her 
condition is successfully controlled by medication. Mrs P would have been able to 
claim for other conditions, so I dont think her diagnosis would have stopped her 
taking the policy if the exclusion terms had been brought to her attention.
Mrs P wasnt affected by any of the other conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self employed people. So I think it unlikely she 
needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mrs P cant remember her exact circumstances when the policy was taken including 
what sick pay she may have received from her employer if she couldn't work due to 
sickness or an accident. The PPI would have covered her card payments if she was 
unable to work due to sickness or an accident until she returned to work. This would 
have been in addition to any sick pay she received. It also covered her if she'd 
become unemployed. So I think, in all likelihood, she must have thought the PPI 
could be of use to her.
Overall, I dont think Mrs P has lost out because of anything that AXA might have 
done wrong.
AXA said it had no further information or comment in response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs Ps representative did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman