DRN-3322416
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with her medical insurance 
policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs M has had private medical insurance for some years. The 
policy relevant in this complaint started in October 2019 and renews annually.     
Mrs M contacted AXA in order to make a claim. I understand that Mrs M had 
physiotherapy, acupuncture and osteopathy treatment and saw an orthopaedic surgeon.  
It was recommended that Mrs M have spinal injections and in March 2020, AXA 
authorised that treatment. The treatment was planned to take place in April 2020.
The orthopaedic surgeon cancelled the planned treatment because the hospital had 
been taken over by the NHS as part of the response to Covid-19. Mrs M told AXA about 
that and asked for a suspension of her payments due to her difficult financial position 
following Covid-19s impact on her business. In April 2020, AXA offered Mrs M a 
payment holiday for two months. 
The hospital offered Mrs M treatment in July 2020 but that wasnt convenient for Mrs M, 
so she didnt proceed with the treatment then.
In September 2020, Mrs M received notification of an increased premium on renewal. 
She wasnt in a financial position to pay the increased amount. So, she didnt renew her 
policy.  
Mrs M says that AXA has raised her premium by an excessive amount such that she can 
no longer afford to pay it. That means that as she didnt renew her policy, she cant 
access the treatment authorised in March 2020. Mrs M says that the premium increase 
is unfair and unreasonable. She says that AXA told her that its based on her making a 
claim in 2020, but she hasnt in fact received that treatment.  She wants AXA to pay for 
the treatment it authorised and to review her premium, taking into account her long 
history with AXA.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mrs M unfairly. Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in summary:
Its unfair that the closure of the private hospital due to Covid-19 resulted in the 
cancellation of her treatment. 
The alternative treatment date in July 2020 she was offered was inconvenient 
and one of the reasons for choosing private health care is being able to choose 
convenient treatment dates. 
AXA authorised her treatment and its using Covid-19 and a significant rise in the 
premium to deny her that treatment. That isnt fair. 
Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
 
It is important that you pay your subscription when it is due. If you miss a payment, we will 
cancel your membership and we will not pay any claim for any treatment that you had after 
the payment was due.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly. I say that because:
the premium increase
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of 
factors. AXA has said that those factors include a range of statistical factors, volume 
and value of claims, treatment costs, age, and no claims discount. Its not for me to 
tell AXA what factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go 
about its assessment. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement and not 
something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
AXA has provided me with business sensitive information to explain how it calculated 
the renewal quote it sent to Mrs M in September 2020. Im afraid I cant share that 
information with Mrs M, but Ive considered it carefully. Im satisfied the premium   
Mrs M was quoted in 2020 was calculated correctly and that all of AXAs customers 
in Mrs Ms position will have been charged a similar premium. So, I dont think that 
AXA treated Mrs M unfairly in quoting that premium.
I can quite understand why the renewal quotation wasnt acceptable to Mrs M. It was 
open to Mrs M to decline the renewal quote, which is what she did. 
the delay in the treatment authorised in March 2020
In March 2020, when AXA authorised the treatment, it said:
We'll cover this as long as [] you are still a member when you have the treatment.
Thats in accordance with the policy term which Ive set out above.
Theres no term in Mrs Ms contract with AXA that requires AXA to pay for treatment 
that takes place after the policy has ended, even when its been difficult to access 
private treatment. Theres no basis on which I could fairly direct AXA to pay for the treatment it authorised in March 2020 now, when the policy is no longer in force.  
Thats because I wouldnt expect an insurer to effectively extend cover if treatment 
was unavailable due to circumstances outside its control  which was what happened 
here. And I understand that AXA has treated all of its members in the same way, so I 
dont think that it singled Mrs M out unfairly. 
Mrs Ms treatment was cancelled then an alternative date was offered which wasnt 
acceptable to Mrs M. I think that in the unprecedented circumstances arising out of 
Covid-19 some disruption in provision was inevitable but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think that means that AXA is required to pay for the treatment it 
authorised in March 2020 after Mrs Ms policy has ended. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman