complaint
Ms Rs complaint is about a payday loan she took with Ferratum UK Ltd. Ms R says this loan 
was unaffordable.
background
Ms R took out one loan with Ferratum in April 2013 as detailed below.
Our adjudicator thought Ferratum hadnt done anything wrong when providing Ms R with her 
loan. She explained that Ferratum gathered adequate information and there wasnt anything 
within that information that was cause for concern. Ms R disagreed and thought Ferratum 
shouldve asked for her bank statements. She says if it had done this and conducted a more 
thorough review it wouldve seen this loan was not affordable for her. 
Ferratum made a goodwill offer to Ms R in its final response letter to her. Ferratum has 
confirmed to this service that this offer is no longer available for Ms R to accept. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I dont think Ferratum has treated Ms R unfairly or 
that it should pay her compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms R and 
Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Ms R was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So 
Ferratum needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Ferratum needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Ms R before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be Loan Date Taken Date Rep
aidMonthl
y 
InstalmentsAmount Repayment
1 05/04/2013 outstanding 1 £240 £318.
92
DRN-1569677less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In her complaint Ms R says that Ferratum didnt lend to her responsibly because it didnt 
check her statements to see if she could afford the loan. Ms R has sent us her statements to 
show the state of her finances. On these I can see Ms R was in her over draft and using 
loans from other short-term lenders. Ferratum says that it carried out adequate checks  by 
gathering details of Ms Rs income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. And 
based on this Ferratum says it didnt see anything to alert it to any sustainability or 
affordability issues for the loan it gave Ms R.
Its important to note that when Ms R took out her loan with Ferratum it doesnt seem that 
she had an existing relationship with them. The loan of was to be repaid in one payment of 
roughly £318. Ms R had told Ferratum his monthly income was around £3,000. I cant see 
anything to suggest that Ferratum had reason to question the information it had about Ms R 
or verify it. Looking at the repayment its difficult for me to conclude that Ferratum was wrong 
to decide that the repayment would be affordable sustainably for Ms R.
Ferratum also carried out a credit check on Ms R. I understand Ms R has provided bank 
statements which shows she had other short-term loans. But the use of other short-term 
loans isnt reason alone not to lend. The credit check carried out by Ferratum didnt reveal 
anything of concern, and as explained above as this was Ms Rs first loan with Ferratum we 
wouldnt expect statements to be requested at this stage. So although Ms Rs statements 
show she was having issues managing her finances I wouldnt have expected Ferratum to 
have been aware of this. I think Ferratum acted reasonably by carrying out the checks that it 
did and based on the information it gathered at the time I cant see that there is enough to 
alert it to any financial issues for Ms R.
I appreciate Mr Rs comments about the impact this loan had on her, and I am sorry to hear 
about her health issues. But I havent seen anything to make me think Ferratum acted 
irresponsibly in the circumstances of her case.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman