DRN-4465424
Complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a 
conditional-sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable for her. 
Background
In May 2021, Moneybarn provided Miss M with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,095.00. Miss M didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 60-month conditional 
sale agreement with Moneybarn for the entire purchase price of £6,095.00. The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £4,939.77 and the total amount to be repaid of £11,034.77 
was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £187.03. 
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Miss M unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Miss Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss M could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend 
to her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider 
what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Miss M. During this assessment, Miss M provided details of her monthly 
income which it cross checked against it obtained on the amount of funds Miss Ms account 
was receiving each month. 
Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Miss M which showed no significant 
adverse information in the form of defaults or County Court Judgments (CCJ) recorded 
against her. Miss M did have some active existing regular credit commitments but these 
werent excessive.
Furthermore, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Miss M already owed plus a 
reasonable amount for Miss Ms living expenses was deducted from her monthly income the 
monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Miss M says she was already 
struggling at the time and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Miss M and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I think that Moneybarn should probably done a bit more 
before concluding that this agreement was affordable for Miss M. In my view, bearing in 
mind the amount being lent, the term and total cost of the agreement, Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn needed to take further steps to ascertain Miss Ms actual living costs, rather than 
assuming Miss Ms living expenses in order for its checks to have been reasonable here. 
As Moneybarn should have done more, Ive gone on to decide what I think Moneybarn is 
more likely than not to have seen had it done that here. Given the circumstances here, I 
would have expected Moneybarn to have had a reasonable understanding about Miss Ms 
regular living expenses as well as her income and existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Miss M has provided us with. Having done so, this 
information appears to show that when Miss Ms committed regular living expenses are 
combined with what the credit checks showed and are deducted from the income going into 
her account at the time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
Indeed the monthly payments for this agreement were significantly less than what Miss M 
was paying to hire vehicles in the period leading up to this purchase, which she wouldnt 
have to pay going forward. Miss M has said she required a vehicle going forward and has 
explained the reasons for this. So I think its fair to say that entering into this agreement 
would have seen Miss Ms outgoings reduce as she would have saved on hire costs.
I accept that the information Miss M has now provided  in the form of bank statements - 
does provide some indication of why she did find it more difficult to make her payments than 
the information obtained showed. But it might also help to explain that what Im required to 
think about here in order to determine whether Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss M, is whether Moneybarn would have lent had it done what I think it should 
have. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Moneybarn is unlikely to have found out 
about what is in Miss Ms bank statements even if it had carried out further checks. I say this 
as obtaining bank statements were not the only way for Moneybarn to find out more about 
Miss Ms regular living costs. It could have instead asked for copies of bills, or other 
evidence of payments. In my view, any further checks carried out are likely to have led to 
Moneybarn concluding that Miss M had sufficient funds for the monthly payments to this 
agreement to be made in a sustainable manner. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with  Miss M did go far enough, Im satisfied that doing more wont have prevented Moneybarn from providing these funds, 
or entering into this agreement with her. 
Overall Im therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Miss M when it lent 
to her and Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint, I would remind Moneybarn of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration (bearing in mind what it is now aware of) in the 
event that it intends to collect the outstanding balance remaining and Miss M is experiencing 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman