DRN-4110543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin
Money) handling of their attempts to open a joint account.
What happened
Virgin Money looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about not being able to open a joint
account and the issues they experienced and offered Mr and Mrs G £50.00 in compensation
for the additional time spent on the online application due to their technical problems and
travel Mr and Mrs G made to its branch when Virgin Money were unable to assist.
Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to our service as they felt the offer did not adequately
compensate them for the interest they lost whilst trying to open a joint account.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he thought that Virgin Moneys offer
was reasonable. As Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the matter
was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2023, explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it forms a 
part of this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im currently minded to recommend that Virgin Money 
pay Mr and Mrs G more compensation than the £50 it has already offered. I will 
explain why.
From the outset, it is clear that all that Mr and Mrs G wanted to do was to open a joint
account. This should be a fairly straightforward request for a bank to deal with and 
yet it took months of toing and froing for a joint account to be opened, and even then, 
Mr G was registered as both of the account holders. Although I should add at this 
point that I dont think that Virgin Money can necessarily be blamed for all of the trials 
and tribulations that Mr and Mrs G have had to face.
Nevertheless, when looking through what Mr and Mrs G have told us, I dont think 
Virgin Money had made it clear enough to them that the initial forms that they 
completed in June and July 2022 would not result in Mr Gs account becoming a joint 
account.
Indeed, all that was achieved was that Mrs G was given third-party access to Mr Gs
account, leaving Mr and Mrs G essentially in the same position as they were before.
However, although Ive no doubt that these forms were provided in an attempt to help
Mr and Mrs G, I dont think that issuing third party mandate forms for Mr Gs sole 
accounts helped matters in this case - as Virgin Money says that an existing sole 
account cant be converted into a joint account and instead a new account would 
need to be opened. Indeed, Mr and Mrs G wanted to ensure that the funds in the 
account would be vested to the other account holder, rather than go through probate. 
But adding Mrs G as a third-party authority would not achieve this aim.
As such, I think a large part of the difficulties Mr and Mrs G faced was caused by 
Virgin Money providing Mr and Mrs G with the wrong set of forms (or at least not 
providing the correct forms) from the outset. Had Virgin Money instead provided the 
application forms for a joint account and explained what ID they needed to provide, 
then I doubt that Mr and Mrs G wouldve faced the difficulties that they did, and I think 
that a joint account (in the correct names) wouldve been setup much quicker too.
I can see that Mr and Mrs G have had to make a few trips to Virgin Money branches. 
And whilst a visit to branch is not usually too much of an inconvenience for many, in 
this case I can see that Mr and Mrs G had a two hour round trip on three occasions. 
Again, had the correct forms been required, I dont think Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
needed to have made as many trips as they did.
I understand that when Mr and Mrs G attended the second Virgin Money branch, 
unfortunately Mrs G did not have the correct ID with her, so the joint account 
application could not proceed.
Although I realise that this wouldve been highly frustrating for Mr and Mrs G, Virgin 
Money can only reasonably be expected to be able to accept certain types of ID, to 
ensure they comply with the various regulations. And although Mr and Mrs G say Mrs 
G was an existing customer, from what I understand she wasnt and only had third 
party access to the existing account (which is not the same as being an account 
holder  as Mr G has come to realise in the course of this complaint). Virgin Money 
did suggest they visit their other bank to obtain the necessary documentation, so at 
this stage, I think that Virgin Money did try and assist Mr and Mrs G to get the joint 
account set up to avoid them a wasted journey.
After the failed attempts to open a joint account, Mr and Mrs G then asked their 
daughter to try online. I understand that this ultimately led to a joint account being set 
up, but rather bizarrely, this somehow ended up with Mr G being both of the account 
holders.
There seems to be some dispute as to who is to blame for this. For example, Virgin 
Money say that this occurred because Mr Gs details were entered in twice. 
Conversely, Mr and Mrs G say that their daughter tried to enter Mrs Gs details on the 
application form, but an error message kept appearing, and that when she called 
Virgin Money for help, she was told it was due to a technical problem. But whoever 
was at fault for this (failed) further attempt to open a joint account, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs G wouldve experienced this additional frustration had things gone as they 
shouldve in the first place.
So, when considering everything that has happened, and the impact that this matter 
has had on Mr and Mrs G, I currently think that Virgin Money should pay Mr and Mrs 
G £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. When reaching this figure, I have 
taken into account Mr and Mrs Gs specific circumstances; the journeys theyve 
taken; the amount of time its taken; and the inconvenience caused to them in that 
time to try and get matters resolved.And whilst I recognise that Mr and Mrs G asked for lost interest rather than 
compensation, I note that they were still able to hold the funds in a savings account 
and were able to transfer their funds to their other bank, where they presumably were 
still able to earn some interest.
So, I think a lump sum to reflect the difficulties they have faced is reasonable redress 
in the circumstances.
Putting matters right
As such, I currently think that Virgin Money should pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £300 
(i.e. pay a further £250 if it has already paid the £50 previously offered) for the 
distress and inconvenience that was caused to them in this matter.
Im also planning on instructing Virgin Money to reach out to Mr G to assist him in 
taking the necessary steps to get the joint account changed into his and Mrs Gs 
name, if it has not done so already. If Virgin Money does this, Mrs G should be aware 
that she will likely be required to provide specific types of ID to get it approved.
Both Mr and Mrs G and Virgin Money responded to the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs G agreed with my provisional decision, but added that they felt it was extreme 
and inconsiderate that Virgin Money asked that they go out into the rain to obtain a bank 
statement from their other bank, especially given Mrs Gs mobility issues and when Mr and 
Mrs G already had a lot of documentation with them.
Virgin Money also agreed with the decision to pay Mr and Mrs G additional compensation. 
Virgin Money asked for the bank details of the account that Mr and Mrs G would like the 
money to be paid into, and also asked if Mr and Mrs G are still happy to open a joint 
account, whether theyre happy to be contacted by the branch to arrange an appointment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason why I should 
change the outcome I reached.
I note that Mr and Mrs G say that it was extreme and inconsiderate that Virgin Money 
suggested that they go to their other bank branch to obtain a bank statement, despite Mrs 
Gs poor mobility and it pouring with rain at the time.
On this point, I have to say that I dont think Virgin Moneys suggestion was extreme or 
inconsiderate. On the contrary, I think that Virgin Money was simply trying to be helpful to 
save Mr and Mrs G a wasted journey. 
In summary, when Mr and Mrs G attended the appointment in question, they didnt have two 
valid forms of ID needed for Mrs G. This meant they could not proceed with the application. 
So the only choices they had were to either go home and try another time, or the next best 
option was to be able to obtain a bank statement from a branch of the their other bank. 
Therefore, although it mayve been difficult or inconvenient for Mr and Mrs G, I think that 
Virgin Moneys suggestion was a reasonable attempt to try and resolve matters there and 
then. And of course, it was only a suggestion. Mr and Mrs G were not obliged to go to a branch of their other bank if they didnt want to, or if it wouldve been too difficult for them to 
do so.  
As outlined above, Virgin Money has agreed to contact Mr and Mrs G (only if they are happy 
to be contacted) to arrange an appointment so that they can apply for a joint account again.
Given that the troubles Mr and Mrs G have faced seem to largely revolve around them 
having invalid ID when applying for an account, if Virgin Money does contact Mr and Mrs G, 
it will need to explain what forms of ID (and how many of them are required) would be 
accepted as valid to open the joint account - in advance of any appointment that may be 
arranged. 
At the same time, Id also like to remind Mr and Mrs G that Virgin Money cant reasonably be 
expected to accept documents not on the list. So, it is imperative that they only provide valid 
forms of ID (and the correct amount for each person), to ensure the joint account application 
can proceed correctly.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Virgin Money should pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £300 (i.e. pay
a further £250 if it has already paid the £50 previously offered) for the distress and
inconvenience that was caused to them in this matter.
I also require Virgin Money to reach out to Mr and Mrs G (providing Mr and Mrs G are happy 
to be contacted) to assist them in taking the necessary steps so that they can have a joint 
account in Mr and Mrs Gs names. If Virgin Money does this, Mr and Mrs G should be aware 
that they will be required to provide very specific types of ID to get their application 
approved.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I require Clydesdale 
Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman