DRN-4248268
The complaint
Mr G complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (t/a Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions) (NVS) applied when he returned a car at the end of his hire agreement.
What happened
Mr G entered into a 3-year hire agreement with NVS. He says he doesnt accept the damage 
charges that NVS applied when he returned the car because it was in immaculate condition. 
Mr G told us:
at the end of the three-year lease, he took the car to a valeting company to have it 
cleaned before returning the car to NVS in immaculate condition;
NVS is seeking payment from him for things that he considers to be fair wear and 
tear;
the minor scratches could have been repaired using a well-known product; 
the charges total £575.
NVS rejected Mr Gs complaint. It said under the terms of Mr Gs agreement, he needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained that it had 
reviewed the photographs and the report provided by its collection agent, and it was satisfied 
that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
and identified issues in a number of areas:
1. Front alloy wheel R  corrosion/rust £65.00
2. Front alloy L  rim damage £65.00
3. Front bumper  scuffed £75.00
4. Rear bumper  scratched £175.00
5. B Post L  dent £60.00
6. B Post R  dent £60.00
7. Front door R  scratched £75.00
It said the charges had been levied correctly, and Mr G owed it £575.00 in respect of end of 
contract damages.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by NVS were fair and reasonable.
She explained shed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that there 
was sufficient evidence to show that the damage identified exceeded BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidance, and that the charges had been applied fairly.
Mr G disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the third-party 
photographs exaggerate the condition of the car and they dont really do justice to the 
inspection. He says there was really very little damage, and what there was, couldve been 
more easily remedied. And he asked that I inspect the car in person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr G must keep the vehicle in good 
condition and repair. It goes on to say, You will be responsible to us for any damage 
caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as 
indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). 
So, Im satisfied that Mr G was responsible for returning the car in good condition, and that 
the cars condition would be assessed against the guidelines issued by BVRLA. But the 
question is whether all the charges applied by NVS are fair and reasonable. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for NVS to charge Mr G. 
NVS claims there are seven areas of damage that it deems to be outside fair wear and tear: 
1. Front alloy wheel R  corrosion/rust £65.00
2. Front alloy L  rim damage £65.00
3. Front bumper  scuffed £75.00
4. Rear bumper  scratched £175.00
5. B Post L  dent £60.00
6. B Post R  dent £60.00
7. Front door R  scratched £75.00
Alloys
The BVRLA standard says Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim 
and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub 
of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy 
wheels. 
Ive looked carefully at the two photographs provided by NVS and the damage identified by 
the third-party collection agent is as described. Theres corrosion evident on the front right 
alloy, and the front left alloy has rim damage that exceeds the standard. So, Im satisfied that 
the charges NVS asked Mr G to pay in respect of the alloys were applied fairly and in line 
with relevant industry guidance.
Front and rear bumper
The BVRLA guidance says Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare 
metal is not showing are acceptable provided they can be polished outIve looked very carefully at the evidence that NVS provided, and Im satisfied that the 
damage highlighted by it is indeed present; put simply, theres scratches on both bumpers in 
excess of 25mm. So, I think the charges in respect of the front and rear bumpers have been 
applied fairly and in accordance with the industry guidelines.
B Post L and R
The BVRLA guidance says that Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
NVS third-party inspection agent provided photographs of both left and right posts, and I can 
see they used the industry recognised approach  zebra boards  to highlight areas of 
damage. Where theres no damage, the zebra boards reflect straight, solid and parallel lines. 
But in this case, theres evidence of damage; the lines are no longer parallel highlighting 
where the where dents are present.
In these photographs, its clear that the size and number of dents exceeds the BVRLA 
standards, and so Im satisfied that these two charges were applied fairly and reasonably.
Front door R
The BVRLA guidance says that Scratches of 25mm or lessare acceptable. But the 
photograph provided by NVS shows several scratches present, all significantly larger than 
25mm. Again, Im satisfied that its fair for NVS to levy a charge for this damage, and the 
charge of £75 is reasonable.
Ive considered what Mr G says about the viability of scratches being repaired by a well-
known high street product. I think his inference is that this wouldve been cheaper. But its 
not for this Service to tell NVS how to go about making repairs in a situation like this, indeed 
NVS doesnt have to make any repairs at all. The charges that NVS makes covers the cost 
of the repairs or, alternatively, they compensate it for any loss in value that it might suffer 
due to the damage on the car.
Moreover, the BVRLA guidelines say that Mr G couldve arranged to repair areas of 
damagebefore the vehicle is returned, ensuring that any work is carried out to a 
professional standard by a repairer who can provide a transferable warranty for the work. 
So, I think that Mr G had ample opportunity to familiarise himself with the fair wear and tear 
expectations and this provided him with the opportunity to have any repairs carried out prior 
to any inspection.
Finally, Mr G suggested that I should consider undertaking an independent inspection of the 
car myself. But I have to tell him that this isnt how this Service works. We operate a two-
stage case handling process. The first stage is for an investigator to try and resolve the case 
informally. They review and interpret all the information available to them, and then when 
they feel ready, they issue their opinion of the case based upon what they consider to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. That opinion is a matter for the investigators own 
personal judgement, its based on the information provided by both parties, and it must be 
based upon their own impartial view.
Ive based my decision on all the available evidence and arguments put to me by both 
parties to decide a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. The informal nature of 
our service means that Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of an issue. Our rules 
allow me to do that, so I might not undertake every line of enquiry Mr G might wish me to. 
But its my role to exercise my independent judgment to reach a decision that I think is fair 
and reasonable - and explain why. And thats what Ive done in tis case.I recognise that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope he understands how 
Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman