DRN-3626165
The complaint
Miss B complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com didnt treat her 
fairly when she was in financial difficulties. 
What happened
Miss B referred two complaints to our service. The first concerning the sale of a loan and the 
second about Everyday Lendings treatment of her when she began to experience issues 
making repayments with that loan. Our service has issued a jurisdiction decision on this 
complaint, which set out that we only have the power to consider Miss Bs concerns 
regarding Everyday Lendings treatment of her when she began to experience issues with 
her repayments.
Miss Bs complaint is that Everyday Lending did not treat her fairly when she experienced 
financial difficulties. She says she entered into a debt management plan; and that Everyday 
Lending shouldve done more to help her. She also says Everyday Lending harassed her via 
numerous communications. Miss B says she wants Everyday Lending to respond to her 
situation in a similar manner to other lenders, who she says have been more positive and 
sympathetic to her.
Everyday Lending responded to this aspect of Miss Bs complaint by saying it had treated 
her fairly when she experienced financial difficulties. It said it offered to reschedule Miss Bs 
repayments and entered into a suitable repayment plan with her. It explained that as Miss B 
had been making reduced payments, she would continue to receive communications from it 
regarding the status of her loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend this complaint be upheld. He explained that whilst other 
lenders mayve offered different forbearance measures, he felt Everyday Lending had acted 
reasonably in the steps it had taken. He also did not find sufficient information which 
demonstrated that Everyday Lending had been unreasonable in its communications with 
Miss B. 
Miss B disagreed with this outcome and maintained that Everyday Lending had not acted 
fairly in this instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not satisfied this complaint should be upheld. This is for broadly the 
same reasons that our investigator set out to Miss B. I appreciate this outcome will come as 
a disappointment to her.
I can see that Miss B began to experience issues with her loan repayments not long after it 
was taken out. I can see she notified Everyday Lending of these issues; and that ultimately it 
led to her entering into a debt management plan.
During these communications with Everyday Lending I can see that Miss B had asked for 
Everyday Lending to act with suitable forbearance; and she has since asked for Everyday 
Lending to remove the interest which is applicable to the account. 
As our investigator has explained to Miss B, we expect Everyday Lending to follow the 
relevant rules and guidelines when it comes to the exercising of forbearance. The relevant 
rules and industry practice do not set out a mandatory list of actions a lender must complete, 
but wed expect a lender to act proactively, offering sufficient sympathetic support to those 
borrowers who are experiencing financial hardship. Ive considered if Everyday Lending has 
done this in this instance.
Having done so Im satisfied that Everyday Lending has acted reasonably in this instance. 
That is not the same as saying it couldnt have done more, or that it has acted in the same 
way as other lenders. However, that is not the relevant consideration here. The relevant 
consideration is whether it has acted fairly and reasonably in this instance when considering 
the relevant rules and guidance.
In this instance Everyday Lending has demonstrated that when it became aware of Miss Bs 
situation it agreed to accept affordable reduced repayments from her. It also worked with 
Miss B once the debt management plan was entered into. This has inevitably meant that 
Miss B will be repaying the loan over a longer period of time than the original agreement. 
Everyday Lending has confirmed that it will not be adding any further interest to the loan 
(capping the loan at the agreed total repayment under the original loan agreement). 
So whilst I appreciate Miss Bs point of view that Everyday Lending has not acted as 
sympathetically as other lenders, I dont agree that it has acted unreasonably when 
considering her financial hardship. And considering the overall actions it has taken, as well 
as the type of loan Miss B had with Everyday Lending, Im satisfied it has exercised sufficient 
forbearance in this instance; and as such Im satisfied it has acted reasonably in this 
instance.
Miss B also complains that Everyday Lending caused further distress as it continued to send 
communications to her after she had explained her financial difficulties to it. Ive considered 
these communications, and whilst I appreciate this was (and still is) a difficult time for Miss 
B, Im not satisfied the communications are unreasonable. As Everyday Lending has 
explained, due to the forbearance measures it has offered Miss B, she is making reduced 
repayments to the loan. This means she is technically in arrears with the loan, and this is 
prompting the communications she is receiving. Im not persuaded these communications 
are excessive, and whilst they concern a sensitive issue, Im satisfied they are reasonable 
and in line with the types of communications I would expect to see in similar circumstances. 
So, it follows that I do not think Everyday Lending has acted unfairly in relation to this aspect 
of Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B has asked that Everyday Lending write off the remaining interest on her account to 
further help her repayments. Whilst Everyday Lending is not required to do so, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I would remind Everyday Lending of its continued obligation to 
exercise forbearance and to work with Miss B whilst this account is still open.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman