Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mr S says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading at the time as Egg, mis-
sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Egg had to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr S says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional and he wouldnt have 
bought it if it had been.
Eggs record of Mr Ss application for the credit card shows it was done by post. And Egg 
has sent us an example of what it says the postal application form wouldve looked like at 
the time. This included a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked to show 
whether the customer wanted to take it out.
Based on this, I think its likely that Egg did make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about 
the PPI. And that Mr S chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Egg gave Mr S any personalised advice about the PPI. So 
I dont think it recommended it to him. This means Egg didnt have to check if the PPI was 
right for Mr S. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid 
out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve 
meant he didnt need to rely on any savings or other means he had to make his repayments 
if he wasnt earning.
So the PPI would have been useful for him if something went wrong and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr S off taking it out.
DRN-1055988My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman