DRN-2540375
The complaint
 Mr R has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (trading as Mutual)
gave him unaffordable loans. Mr R says Mutual knew he was struggling but it kept offering
him larger loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Mutual disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partly uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr R took three loans from Mutual between October 2017 and October 2018. A summary of
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mutual, can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedWeekly Repayment
1 28/10/2017 02/05/2018 26 £300.00 £15.00
2 05/05/2018 24/10/2018 26 £500.00 £25.00
3 27/10/2018 outstanding* 26 £1,000.00 £50.00
The most recent correspondence received from Mutual shows there is an outstanding
balance due on Mr Rs last loan.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint. She thought Mutual hadnt made an
error when it approved the first loan. But the adjudicator thought the repayment for loans 2
and 3 represented a large portion of Mr Rs declared income. So, the adjudicator didnt think
Mutual should have approved loans 2 and 3 as there was a risk that Mr R couldnt sustain
the repayments.
It appears that Mr R agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual disagreed and provided a detailed document as to why it didnt agree, but Ive
summarised the key comments below:
These loans are not high interest or expensive.
There are important differences in a home credit loan compared to high cost credit or
payday loans, which the adjudicator hadnt taken into consideration.
Mr R had problems repaying the final loan, but this was due to a change in
circumstances after the loan was approved.
Mutual isnt sure why the adjudicator didnt review additional information (such as
bank statements) to decide what different checks would have shown.
Mr Rs credit report obtained on 19 October 2018 which was used to assess loan 3
shows no signs of financial difficulties. Mr R maintained repayments to other lenders
and was up to date with his payments.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to these types of
complaints and the what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of
this type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend
to go into detail on that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mutual was required to establish
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meetthe repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. And having done so Im intending
to partly uphold the complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr R.
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to Mutual on
these issues in detail through other final decisions and the published decisions on our
website. So, Im not going deal with these points again here. But I will address the points
raised specifically about Mr Rs circumstances and the borrowing he took from the lender.
Loan 1
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Mutual to have provided Mr Rs first loan. Mr R
appears to have accepted our adjudicators findings about this loan. Mutual also appears to
have accepted the adjudicators findings  albeit it did provide some further comments
around the checks that it carried out before this loan was approved.
But, taking into account what Mutual knew about Mr R at the time of his loan application, and
the fact it was early on in the lending relationship with Mr R, I dont think Mutual was wrong
to have approved this loan.
Loan 2
Mutual has told us it relied on the information Mr R told it about his weekly income and
expenditure. At the time of the loan application, Mr R declared he had a weekly income of
£240.
Mr R told Mutual that he was living at home with his parents. Mr R declared he had weekly
expenditure of £20 for rent, £13 for essential expenses, and £36 for credit commitments. So,
what he declared about his expenditure seemed reasonable given what he had told Mutual
about his circumstances. So, based on what Mutual gathered from Mr R, it wouldve thought
hed be able to afford the weekly repayment of £25.
I acknowledge that our adjudicator said the weekly repayment for loan 2 was equal to a
significant portion of Mr Rs weekly income. In other circumstances, this could be a reason to
conclude that the repayment would have been significant enough to have caused repayment
issues and a review of Mr Rs bank statements may have been needed in those
circumstances.
But in Mr Rs circumstances, loan 2 was taken out early on in the lending relationship and he
had told Mutual he didnt have a large number of outgoings due to him living with his
parents.
So, having considered all of the information Mutual knew about Mr R, and the weekly
repayments he was due to make, I cant conclude that the repayment was significant enough
to have caused further problems for Mr R going forwards. So, unlike the adjudicator, I dont
think Mutual was wrong to approve Mr Rs second loan.
Loan 3
When Mr R applied for what turned out to be his final loan, he declared that hiscircumstances hadnt significantly changed compared to his previous application.
Mr R was still living with his parents at this point and was receiving a weekly income of £240.
His expenditure was roughly the same as what he declared for his previous loan with the
exception that he was paying his other credit commitments of £36 on a monthly basis rather
than weekly. Mutual noted his weekly expenses as £41.40.
Whilst Mr R appeared on face value to have enough disposable income to meet the
repayments, I think Mutual should have had concerns over how Mr R would be able to
sustain them. The loan repayments were £50 a week and in my view this repayment
represented a significant portion of Mr Rs declared income.
Theres clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Mutual
to have lent, but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual
complaint. And whilst a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that
something has gone wrong, there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader
circumstances. In this case, the percentage of income coupled with what Mutual knew about
Mr Rs credit commitments ought to have led it to not have provided this loan.
Mutual completed a credit check with a credit reference agency. The results of the credit
check showed Mr R had three outstanding loans with other lenders at the time. He had
outstanding loan balances totalling £2,457 and the combined weekly repayments for these
loans were around £110 a week. Mr R also had had credit card balances totalling £1,074
and it seems he was over his credit card limit of £1,050.
So, the information that Mutual gathered showed Mr R was borrowing from other lenders
and he would have been paying around £110 a week towards these loans. Had Mutual
approved loan 3, Mr R would have been paying £160 a week towards loans which is around
2/3 of his monthly income on servicing debt repayments. So, the information Mutual received
from its credit check was very different to the information Mr R had declared about his credit
commitments. Mutual would have known that Mr R also had credit card repayments on top
of this, meaning further expenses.
So, I think Mutual ought to have concluded that it was unlikely that Mr R would be able to
sustainably repay this loan without having to borrow again. Because of these factors, I dont
think that Mutual shouldve provided Mr Rs last loan.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mutual, in response to the provisional decision told us it didnt have anything new for this 
Service to consider. So, it appears that Mutual accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr R responded to my provisional decision and provided further comments for me to 
consider which Ive summarised below:
When Mr R took out his loans, the agent knew he had defaults on two credit cards 
and 
Mr Rs agent kept asking if he wanted a top up his loans.Mr R has provided screenshots of his credit report. These screenshots show two credit card 
accounts in default. It appears that the credit cards were either taken out in May 2015 and 
July 2018 respectively or defaulted at this time.
 
Mr R took out his first two loans prior to July 2018, so Mutual would not have been aware of 
this credit card being opened, or if it had defaulted at this point. So, I have not considered 
this information further. 
The credit card dated July 2018 may have potentially affected the level of checks the 
business ought to have completed for Mr Rs third loan - as the loan was taken out after this 
date. But in my provisional decision, I explained that Mutual completed a credit check at the 
time Mr R applied for this third loan. And that the information it gathered suggested that it 
was unlikely that Mr R would be able to sustainably repay this loan without having to borrow 
again. So, I have already concluded that loan 3 should not have been approved.
I have considered the information Mr R has provided about his credit card in May 2015. I 
think its important to note that this type of credit is available for consumers who may not 
have a perfect credit file. This means that we often see consumers who have defaulted 
accounts or arrears applying for this credit. And it doesnt automatically follow that the lender 
should not have approved a loan. 
In the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, Mutual did not complete a credit check for Mr Rs 
first two loans. So, I am unable to conclude that Mutual would have seen this information or 
that it would have made a difference as to whether loans 1 and 2 were approved or not.
I acknowledge that Mr R says his agent kept asking him if he wanted a top-up loan. It 
appears that Mr R repaid his loans in full, before applying for a further loan. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for an agent to ask a customer if they would like to top up their loan. But 
ultimately, the lender needed to complete proportionate checks to understand if any new 
loan was affordable and sustainable. In the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, I think 
Mutuals checks were proportionate for loans 1 and 2. But Mutual should not have approved 
loan 3.
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided Mr R with loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr R in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If the debt has been sold to a third party, Mutual should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
Remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding loan balance on
loan 3.
Mutual should rework loan 3 so that Mr R only has to repay the principal borrowed.
And it should treat any repayments made by Mr R (and to the third party if applicable)
as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr R had repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding balance remains due, Mutual
should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr R to repay the balance.
But Id remind Mutual of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Mutual should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file about
loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should give
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Rs 
complaint in part.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman