DRN-3491094
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the replacement phone hes been sent by American International 
Group UK Limited (AIG) after he made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ns mobile phone was replaced by AIG following a claim under his insurance policy, 
which is attached to his bank account. Hes unhappy with the colour of the replacement 
phone as it is different to his original handset. Hes also unhappy that its scratched, and the 
battery capacity is 89%.
Mr N raised a complaint with AIG. They initially offered £10 compensation, which they later 
increased to £160. Mr N believes AIG should refund his excess along with all the premiums 
paid. So, he approached this service.
After approaching this service, AIG reconsidered things and increased the compensation 
offer to a total of £250, along with confirming theyd replace the phone. 
Our investigator thought this was fair. She also said the terms said a replacement phone 
wasnt guaranteed to be the same colour, the battery capacity was reasonable, and that 
replacement phones wouldnt be brand new - and thats in line with the policy terms. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damaged phone
Mr N has provided images of the phone hes received which show cosmetic damage to it. He 
says the replacement phone he was given in a previous claim was also damaged. However, 
Mr Ns not complained to AIG about the original phone he received in the first claim, so I 
cant consider that here. Instead I can only consider the complaint about the recent claim 
and phone replacement, which has already been addressed by AIG.
AIG first offered Mr N £10 compensation after he reported the phone he received was 
damaged. AIG later increased this to £160. And since the complaint came to this service, 
AIG increased the amount to £250, and offered to replace the phone.
Receiving a cosmetically damaged phone wouldve been inconvenient. But I think the offers 
made by AIG, to provide £250 compensation and replace the phone, are fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask them to pay more than this.
Colour of the replacement phone
Mr N is unhappy with the colour of the replacement phone hes been sent as it is different to 
the original handset he had. Ive looked at the terms of Mr Ns policy, these say:
will do its best to replace Your Device with the same colour as Your claimed 
Device, however, there is no guarantee this will happen.
Whilst I recognise Mr N is unhappy the replacement device is a different colour to his original 
handset, AIG has replaced the phone with the same make and model (aside from the colour) 
and thats in line with the policy terms, so I dont think AIG acted unreasonably in the 
circumstances. 
Battery capacity
Mr N is unhappy the replacement phone has a battery capacity of 89%. He says the phone 
must have been used previously, rather than being brand new. 
The policy terms say:
Replacement Devices:
If (AIGs agent) replaces the Device, the replacement Device will be the same 
make, model and condition of the Device immediately prior to the incident giving 
rise to the claim.
Where (AIGs agent) replaces the Device, the replacement will likely be a 
remanufactured  not brand new  Device. Remanufactured Devices may contain 
non-original, third party, or unbranded parts.
IMPORTANT: Please note that (AIGs agent) obligations under this Policy are to provide 
You with a replacement Device that is of the same kind, quality, and condition as Your 
existing Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim. (AIGs agent) is 
under no obligation to provide You with a new replacement Device, and there is no 
guarantee that You will receive a new replacement Device.
Therefore, the policy terms explain that a refurbished phone may be provided, so I dont 
think AIG acted unreasonably by not providing a brand-new phone.
In addition, AIG has explained that any replacement handset has a battery of 80% or above 
which is deemed fully functional by the manufacturer. As AIG are following the guidance 
from the manufacturer of the handset, I dont think they acted unreasonably by providing a 
refurbished phone with a battery with 89% capacity. And in any event, AIG has also offered 
to replace the phone.
Refund of premiums and claim excess
Mr N would like AIG to refund the claim excess and premiums paid since 2018. However, 
Mr N has had the benefit of cover under his policy. Hes been able to claim successfully. And 
the policy terms say an excess will be payable in the event of a claim. So, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for me to direct AIG to refund the premiums and claim excess. 
I accept that it would have been inconvenient to receive a replacement phone which has 
cosmetic damage, but AIG has offered £250 compensation, along with replacing the phone. I 
think thats a fair and reasonable resolution in all the circumstances of the case so Im not 
going to direct them to do any more.
My final decisionAmerican International Group UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 
compensation, and replace the handset, and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that American International Group UK Limited should pay £250 
compensation (less any amounts already paid) and replace Mr Ns phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman