DRN-3041344
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the service theyve received from St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc, referred to as the business. 
Theyre concerned that in 2018 thered been fraudulent activity on their unit trust account, in 
which £50,000 had gone missing, resulting in a loss of 35.5% on their plan. 
They also believe that theres been some other fraudulent activity by the business resulting 
in a loss of £1,500. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business made clear thats its not had an opportunity to investigate all the 
issues raised by Mr and Mrs G in their letter of complaint to our service, dated 3 
December 2020:
oWhen Mr and Mrs G first complained to the business, it was only about the 
missing funds issue. They were also concerned that the adviser had taken 
£1,500 without informing them. 
oQuestions about charges, growth rates and enterprise investment scheme 
(EIS) charges have already been dealt with by the business. 
oAdditional questions, regarding the EIS and the venture capital trust (VCT) 
werent addressed because the business regarded this as data gathering. 
The business has undertaken to fully address the additional points raised as 
complaint points. If Mr M and Mrs G are unhappy with the business response in due 
course, theyre welcome to refer the complaint to our service for consideration.  
In terms of the complaint about the £50,000 that Mr and Mrs G thought had 
disappeared from their unit trust account resulting in a loss of 35.5% in 2018, the 
business accepts that there was an error during a fund switch. In summary:
oThe business wrote to Mr and Mrs G and confirmed that it had made errors, 
and that it was adjusting, to correct it.
oThe business explained that whilst the corrections were being made, a 
withdrawal request for £50,000 was made in October 2018. 
oBecause the corrections hadnt been completed by that point, the business 
had to reverse the withdrawal, and put it through the system when the 
account was in the correct position.  
oThe business confirmed that the adjustment was done manually. Instead of 
replacing the £50,000 withdrawal, and amending the unit position, the 
business made a manual adjustment. In other words, it manually removed 
units to the value of what the £50,000 wouldve sold for at the time. Because 
of this methodology, the £50,000 showed on the report as a drop-in-value.  
oThe business accepts that this caused Mr and Mrs G to think they were 
missing the money. It also offered to pay them £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this and the service provided.  
oDespite what the report showed Mr and Mrs G hadnt suffered a £50,000 loss. 
The business offer of compensation is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
oIn terms of Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about the missing £1,500 he was 
unable to find that this had been deducted from the account or 
misappropriated by the adviser.  
Our service is unable to comment upon fund performance, unless theres evidence 
that Mr and Mrs G were given any guarantees. 
In terms of the fees and charges, hes satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were made aware 
of the charges and fees.   
Overall, hes satisfied that although the business did make an error during the fund 
switch in April 2018, which led to Mr and Mr G thinking their money had gone 
missing, they havent suffered a financial loss, and the payment for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In short, Mr G said:
He was surprised by the investigators view, on a number of levels. Not least of which 
the investigator didnt respond to all/majority of his complaint points. 
He feels the investigators response falls far short of the standard he could expect. 
Given that the investigators view has taken almost a year to produce, he is at a loss 
as to the handling of this case. He would like to understand why the response is so 
inadequate and doesnt deal with the complaint points he raised.     
The investigator having considered Mr Gs response wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs G say, Im unable to 
safely say that the business behaved unreasonably. I also think the redress offered by the 
business for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Gs strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the 
length of time it has taken to get to this stage of the decision-making process. 
Mr and Mrs G have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the relevant and central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
Unlike a court or tribunal, the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs G and the business, 
and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, what  on a balance of probabilities  is more likely than not to have happened. Its 
not for me to determine if a fraud has taken place  Im mindful that Mr and Mr G have 
already reported the matter to the police. 
I note Mr and Mrs Gs very helpful 23-page complaint letter to our service, with exhibits. But, 
apart from the complaint points mentioned at the top of this decision, I understand the 
business hasnt had an opportunity to consider Mr and Mrs Gs wider grievances as a 
complaint. Im aware that Mr and Mrs G have raised numerous additional points since their 
initial complaint to the business and theres been much correspondence. 
So, whilst I appreciate their frustration with our service, Im unable to consider the additional 
complaint points  for example, relating to VCT, the EIS and the rates of return, and tax 
issues  until the business has first had an opportunity to consider them fully and respond to 
Mr and Mrs G in kind. 
I understand from the investigator that the business is in the process of considering the 
additional points and will respond, if it hasnt done so already. 
If, subsequently Mr and Mrs G agree with the business response and resolution, they dont 
need to refer their further complaint to our service. However, if Mr and Mrs G dont agree, or 
the business fails to respond within eight weeks of receiving their full complaint, theyre 
entitled to refer their complaint to our service for consideration. 
Its not entirely clear why the complaint letter to us wasnt immediately sent to the business 
for consideration whilst our service considered the missing money and related issues. But I 
understand a decision has been made to deal with the complaints separately. 
I think that all the pertinent points that could be made, have been made by the parties in 
relation to the current complaint points, so I dont intend to repeat them again. 
In terms of the £50,000, I cant say that the business has appropriated or lost this money. I 
understand that in relation this issue the business wrote to Mr and Mrs G to notify them that 
it had made an error, during a fund switch, and that it was undertaking measures to remedy 
this. 
It was during this period, and prior to the matters being resolved, that in October 2018 the 
business received a request to withdraw £50,000. I understand the business took the 
decision to reverse the request at the point  unintentionally making it look like the money 
had gone missing  before putting it through the account once the error(s) had been rectified 
and the account was in the correct position. 
I understand that the adjustment had to be made manually, and instead of replacing the 
£50,000 withdrawal and then amending the unit position, a manual adjustment was made to 
remove the units to the value of what the £50,000 wouldve sold for.   
I note the business said:
Having spoken with the Team Leader of the Error Corrections team, she has confirmed that
whilst work was still being done on your plan, a withdrawal request was made for £50,000 so
they had to reverse this and then replace the trade once your account was in the correct unit
position. She confirmed that this is where the issue then occurred, as when they went to
replace the £50,000 they encountered a system issue which meant having to complete a
further manual adjustment.Unfortunately, the way in which they replaced the £50,000 withdrawal does not pull through
to our reporting system correctly, as the system cannot correlate the removal of the units 
with a legitimate trade so it shows on your Investor Return report as a drop in Portfolio Value
(blue) without showing the corresponding drop in Total Investments less Total Withdrawals
(red) as shown below. It is this drop which then makes it appear as though there was a
35.5% loss during 2018 when this is not the case.
On balance, it seems to me that the business did what it felt was necessary to ensure that 
Mr and Mrs G didnt lose out financially and carry out their instructions. Unfortunately for 
them, due to the way the business carried out the withdrawal request, the £50,000 showed 
up on the report as a drop in the value. 
I also note an earlier response from Mr and Mrs Gs adviser dated 23 May 2020, in which he 
said:
I have no desire to underplay this extremely serious issue, hence why I have spent so much 
time on it. This is the error which is being looked into. But may I reiterate, there is no money 
missing. There is nothing fraudulent on your account and your investment values are 
correct.
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs G say about their thoughts and feelings about the adviser, and 
the overall concern about the advice they received from him over the years. Im also mindful 
of how concerned they were that this wasnt picked up by him and consequently theyve 
made a request for information under the Data Protection Act 1998. But based on what the 
business said, it seems to me that the issue wasnt initially clear to their adviser either, 
because the true position was reflected on documentation that he had access to. 
Nevertheless, Im aware that Mr and Mrs G were so worried that they reported the matter to 
the police  they believed there was a material risk to their investment.   
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G would like a refund of their fees for this period. In terms of 
fees and charges, our general position is that if they were made reasonably clear to 
consumers before they decided to go ahead with the investments, the business hasnt 
behaved unreasonably. And if consumers dont read the relevant documentation about fees 
and charges (relating to the different investments) a business cant be held responsible for 
consumers not knowing what they were. 
This issue, in respect of which Mr and Mrs G have been offered compensation for distress 
and inconvenience suffered, isnt a reasonable basis for requesting a refund of the fees. Im 
mindful that despite what they believe may (or may not) have happened in the future, theyve 
not suffered a financial loss. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about how much fees theyve paid. But Im mindful 
that a business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, 
to set its own fees. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs, and certainly not the 
level of fees that it should apply. 
Overall, and on balance, I think the £500 compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I cant agree with 
Mr and Mrs G that theyve paid fees just to be defrauded. 
Im mindful of Mr and Mrs Gs comment about the £1,500 they say was taken or has gone 
missing. But like the investigator, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant safely 
say that the money has gone missing and/or has been taken by the business. I note the business said:
With regard to your concern about an amount of £1,500 being taken from a payment without 
your knowledge, we cannot see this was the case. During 2018, you paid in a lump sum of 
£32,500 in January 2018 and a lump sum of £100,000 in December 2018, both paid directly 
by you by bank transfer. You then also paid in £6,000 per month from February 2018, 
totalling £198,500. All payments were invested with no Initial Advice Charge (IAC) being 
applied, as confirmed in the illustrations provided to you by (the adviser name anonymised) 
prior to each investment being made and the investment certificates sent to you from the 
Administration Centre (copies enclosed).
There was a further £100,000 investment made in December 2018, but this was not paid into
an account held in your name.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G might disagree with the business response, but I dont think 
its unreasonable in terms of there being no persuasive evidence of this missing money. I 
note they havent raised any further points specific to this matter after the investigators view 
and conclusion.   
Im aware that Mr and Mrs G are also concerned about what they consider to be 
discrepancies in the rates of return  in terms of what they were told and what they saw 
online. This is an issue that the business again will need to be given an opportunity to 
consider as a complaint and respond to in due course. 
It may be helpful to point out in general terms at this stage that fund performance isnt an 
issue that our service would generally look at in isolation  Im mindful this is important to Mr 
and Mrs G as they were considering investing more money with the business in the lead up 
to their complaint.  
But, unless a guarantee on returns was given by the business, regardless of any assumption 
Mr and Mrs G may have made, its not something that the business couldve predicted or 
had control over. It was subject to numerous factors outside of the business control. Despite 
what they say, poor performance isnt generally evidence of unreasonable behaviour. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will likely be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. Im sorry that it has taken 
this long to get to the decision stage and that Mr and Mr G havent had all of their complaint 
points dealt with as they thought would happen, but for the reasons Ive explained, its not 
something I can do at this stage. 
Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything in 
relation to the complaint points considered in this decision.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr and Mrs G what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman