DRN-3052937
The complaint
Mrs C complains Equifax Limited havent updated her credit file to correct information 
recorded by two different companies.
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs C had cleared outstanding arrears with two companies, but these 
werent showing on Equifaxs reports. The two debts were with companies Ill call E and J. 
Mrs C said after speaking to E and J, they both agreed the balance with them was zero, but 
Equifax were refusing to update her credit file to reflect this. Mrs C said this caused her 
issues when trying to get credit.
Mrs C also said shed asked Equifax to add a Notice of Correction (NOC) on to her file on 
multiple occasions, but this hadnt been done. A NOC is information an individual can add to 
their own credit file for potential lenders to see  and is usually used when the individual 
wants to highlight information they believe to be wrong.
Equifax said the information they hold is provided by a number of reliable sources  such as 
local authorities and lenders. They said the information is stored as supplied  and although 
they hold the information, its still owned by the relevant institution. Equifax explained when 
theres a dispute over the information provided, theyll query it with the institution. On Mrs Cs 
behalf, they queried the information E had recorded on her credit report  and E replied to 
say Mrs C needed to get in touch with them. And, they also queried the information J had 
recorded on her credit report  and J didnt give permission to remove the data. Because of 
that, Equifax said they couldnt do anything further, as they dont own the data. They passed 
on information from E and J, which asked Mrs C to get in touch with the respective 
companies. And regarding the NOC, Equifax said they wouldnt add one unless they were 
asked to but explained how to do so.
Unhappy with this, Mrs C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so and 
found Equifax hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs C didnt accept this, saying shed proven Equifax had made errors on multiple 
occasions. She asked the complaint to be escalated, and said she thought it unfair her wife 
hadnt been included in this complaint. So, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain credit reports arent a joint product like current 
accounts with banks can be for example. A credit report is information on an individuals 
financial standing  and although associations can be created by having a product in joint 
names / living at the same address, wed still treat each credit report as something for that 
singular person. So, although Ive noted Mrs Cs comments about her wifes credit report, 
Ive not commented on that further. As I can see our Investigator has explained, if Mrs Cs 
wife wishes us to consider her case, we can set that up for her.
Information Equifax have recorded by E and J
I think its helpful to explain what Equifax have told Mrs C about what they can and cant do 
with the data is correct. Equifax have explained they store the data but arent responsible for 
the accuracy of it. Clearly, if theres a dispute there has to be a mechanism in place to query 
that. So, because Equifax dont generally update data without the institutions permission, I 
cant instruct them to do that. Instead, Ill be looking carefully at whether theyve followed 
their process to dispute the information Mrs C said was wrong.
I can see from the file Equifax have provided on both occasions they contacted E and J on 
two separate occasions each.
Dealing with E first the initial response to Equifaxs contact was (addressed to Mrs C):
Thank you for your email. I have looked in to your account today and I can see that you 
have contacted us directly and are currently dealing with our Complaints Team. Please 
contact your Resolution manager to discuss this matter further.
And, after Mrs C remained unhappy, Equifax contacted E again. The notes recorded of this 
contact is dispute raised and lender responded. no change, they will update account in next 
3 months to show as settled.
For J, when Equifax first got in touch, they replied and said:
Can the customer contact our Customer Services Department to discuss this further 
onlines are open between 8am to 8pm. The account has a zero balance
And, again Equifax contacted J a second time, and the notes recorded say:
no change, contact lender
Mrs C has suggested Equifax didnt get in touch with E or J. But Ive not seen any reason to 
dispute these entries, and there isnt anything obviously wrong or suspect meaning I dont 
think I should rely on them. So, Im satisfied Equifax did dispute the entries, on two 
occasions with each institution.
Unless Equifax had been directly asked by either E or J to update the information, then I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong. Thats because, as I mentioned above, its correct 
Equifax dont own the data  they just store it. And, theyve fulfilled their requirement by 
disputing the entries when Mrs C raised concerns  and they passed that information on.
Ive not ignored the other evidence Mrs C has provided. Ive noted shes provided emails that 
might suggest the entries could be updated  but as Ive explained above that instruction has 
to come from either E or J. And, as E and J didnt tell Equifax to do this when they got in 
touch, I cant say theyve done anything wrong. 
Adding the NOC
Ive noted Mrs C has said shes asked for a NOC to be added to her file on multiple 
occasions, and it hasnt been.Ive not seen anything to show Mrs C has applied for a NOC and its not been added to her 
credit file. This is something Mrs C has said shes asked for on the phone on multiple 
occasions, but its a process completed online.
I can see Equifax have explained how Mrs C can do this, so I dont require them to take any 
further action. If after following Equifaxs process shes got further concerns, she can raise a 
new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman