DRN-3658273
The complaint
Ms J and Mr J are unhappy that TSB Bank plc processed a payment from their account 
without their permission. 
What happened
Ms J and Mr J made a payment of £520.96 to a merchant. However, when they later 
reviewed their account, they saw that the payment for £520.96 had been made to the 
merchant again a few weeks later, then reimbursed back to their account the following day. 
Ms J and Mr J spoke with the merchant, who assured them that they hadnt requested the 
payment for the second time. Ms J and Mr J contacted TSB who confirmed that an error on 
their part had led to the payment being credited to the merchant twice, and that theyd 
quickly recognised this and recalled the payment back to Ms J and Mr Js account. Ms J and 
Mr J werent happy that this had happened, so they raised a complaint.
TSB acknowledged Ms J and Mr Js complaint and confirmed it was their error that had led 
to the payment being credited incorrectly for the second time. TSB apologised to Ms J and 
Mr J for what had happened and made a payment of £6 to them to cover any costs, such as 
telephone costs, they may have incurred trying to understand what had happened, and a 
further £30 as compensation for any trouble and upset they may have incurred. Ms J and Mr 
J werent satisfied with TSBs response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the response that TSB had 
issued to Ms J and Mr Js complaint  including the explanation, the apology, and the 
payments totalling £36  already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to that 
complaint. Ms J and Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear Ms J and Mr J feel strongly about this complaint and that theyd like 
some reassurance that TSB wont repeat their mistake, as well as a more detailed response 
from TSB in regard to this complaint, which Ms J and Mr J didnt consent to being closed.
It must be noted immediately that this service has a limited remit in regard to what we can 
consdier, and that were neither a regulatory body nor a Court of Law. Rather, this service is 
an informal dispute resolution service, with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome. This 
means that what I can consider here is limited to whether TSBs actions or inactions led to 
an unfair outcome for Ms J and Mr J.
TSB dont dispute that they made an error here, and consequently they also dont dispute 
that an unfair event occurred  the unauthorised second payment of £520.96 that was made 
to the merchant. What this service would generally expect in such circumstances, where a 
business has made an error, would be that the business would as quickly as possible take 
the corrective steps necessary to put its affected customer back into the position they should 
be in, had the error never occurred. 
Im satisfied that TSB have done that here. This is because TSB recognised their error and 
took the steps needed to recall the payment of £520.96 back to Ms J and Mr Js account. 
Also, TSB took these steps the day after the payment had been mistakenly made, which I 
feel is indicative that TSB corrected their error as quickly as possible.
It would also generally be expected by this service that TSB would acknowledge their error, 
apologise for it, and pay reasonable compensation if warranted for what had happened. 
Again, Im satisfied that TSB did that here. One reason for this is because the telephone 
note that details the initial complaint conversation between Ms J and Mr J, and TSB, 
includes that TSBs agent verbally apologised to Ms J and Mr J for what had happened. And 
while a recording of that telephone call unfortunately isnt available, I feel that its more likely 
than not, on balance, that a trained complaint handler would apologise to a complaining 
customer for a known business error.
Additionally, I also feel that the payment of £30 compensation and £6 costs does provide fair 
financial restitution to Ms J and Mr J for what happened here. And, I note that Ms J herself 
has confirmed in her correspondence with this service that she has no issue with the 
compensation amount received. 
Ms J has also explained to this service that shes unhappy with TSBs response to the 
complaint, and that she expects further action from TSB in regards to it. However, I feel the 
information TSB have provided to this service confirms they did respond to the complaint 
verbally during a conversation with Ms J, and I note that TSBs complaint response letter 
refers to the conversation that took place. 
I can appreciate that Ms J and Mr J might not be satisfied with TSBs letter or with their 
overall handling of their continuing complaint. But given that Im satisfied that TSB have 
issued a reasonable response to their complaint  albeit one which Ms J and Mr J are 
unsatisfied with  Im unable to comment on TSBs handling of their complaint further. 
There are two reasons for this. The first is that how a business chooses to handle a 
complaint  even a complaint about a financial matter  is outside the remit of what this 
service is permitted to consider. And the second is that after this complaint was referred to 
this service, TSB would no longer be expected to correspond directly with Ms J and Mr J 
about this complaint, given that this service is now officially involved. 
Ms J and Mr J have also stated that they want reassurances that TSB wont make the same 
error again, and also explanations from TSB about certain aspects of their complaint, 
including why they didnt receive a text message advising them of the mistaken payment, but 
had to discover it themselves.
TSB have provided a detailed explanation of the error that occurred to Ms J and Mr J to try 
to reassure them that the issue has been completely resolved. Im not sure what more TSB 
can reasonably do to provide further reassurance here, and so I wont be instructing them to 
do any more. I also wont be instructing TSB to provide the further explanations that Ms J 
and Mr J are requesting. This is because there may be many reasons why, for example, Ms 
J and Mr J didnt receive a text message, including that the error may have been resolved 
before any message could be sent, and because I feel that the actions TSB did take in 
response to their error did result in Ms J and Mr Js account being restored to the financial 
position it should have been in, without any detriment to Ms J and Mr J, in a reasonable time.Finally, I note that Ms J has expressed her concerns that, had the balance of the account 
being lower, the account might have been put into an overdrawn position and incurred 
charges because of it. Id like to reassure Ms J and Mr J that if these hypothetical issues had 
occurred, it would be expected that TSB would have corrected those issues in line with how 
Ive previously described, namely, by putting Ms J and Mr J back into the financial position 
they would have been in, had the error never occurred. And this includes reimbursing any 
unfair charges and correcting any unfair credit file reporting.
All of which means that Im satisfied that TSBs response to Ms J and Mr Js complaint, 
including the verbal apology, the explanation of what happened, and the payments totalling 
£36, already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to whats happened here.
I realise this might not be the outcome Ms J and Mr J were wanting, but it follows from the 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action. I 
hope theyll understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman