DRN-2094636
The complaint
Mr M complains that HW Financial Services Limited (HWFS) failed to provide him with 
appropriate advice, or information, about his future pension savings in 1993.  
What happened
Mr M held a personal pension plan to which he was making regular contributions. In 1993 he 
became eligible to join his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS). Under the 
relevant legislation at that time, joining the OPS meant that Mr M could not continue to hold 
the personal pension plan. So he sought assistance from HWFS in assessing the options 
that were available to him. 
HWFS contacted the provider of Mr Ms personal pension to understand the options that 
were open to him. The letter from HWFS told the provider that Mr M was interested in 
converting his pension plan into a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) 
plan. The provider wrote to HWFS explaining that such a conversion would be possible 
allowing further contributions to continue, or that Mr M could simply make his existing plan 
paid up and so his contributions would cease.
Mr M agreed to join the FSAVC plan offered by the provider, and continued to make monthly 
contributions until May 2003.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She had seen no evidence 
that HWFS had adequately informed Mr M about his ability to pay additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) to the OPS. So she didnt think HWFS had treated Mr M fairly and 
asked the firm to pay him some compensation.
HWFS didnt agree with that assessment. It said that it hadnt seen any evidence that Mr M 
had suffered a loss as a result of the advice, or information, it had provided to him. So, as 
the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by HWFS. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The activities that form the basis of Mr Ms complaint happened almost 30 years ago. So it 
isnt surprising that the records from the time are limited. But that doesnt help me in 
understanding what was discussed between Mr M and HWFS, and indeed whether Mr M 
was provided with advice, or just information, by the firm. But I dont think that latter point is 
something that I need to resolve here. I think, even on the basis that Mr M was just provided 
with information, HWFS most likely fell short of its obligations to Mr M.
In 1993, when Mr M was eligible to join the OPS, HWFS was regulated by FIMBRA 
(Financial Intermediaries, Managers And Brokers Regulatory Association). Generally it 
would have expected an advisor to help consumers understand the differences between 
AVC and FSAVC options, providing an explicit comparison between the two schemes. So 
I would expect HWFS, as a minimum, to have made Mr M aware that the OPS offered an 
AVC option and provided him with information about that scheme in addition to the questions 
it posed to the provider of his personal pension plan.
In May 1996 the PIA (Personal Investment Authority) provided further information about the 
comparisons between a FSAVC and AVC scheme. I accept that information was issued after 
the decision that Mr M made. But I think it important to note that the PIA guidance was 
simply reiterating what was expected by FIMBRA  these were things that financial advisors 
should have been taking into account before that date.
In particular the PIA update (RU20) noted that lower charges were usually available on 
in-house AVC schemes when compared to a FSAVC scheme. It said, 
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client.
The information about the AVC scheme offered by the OPS is limited. I have seen 
documentary evidence that an AVC scheme was in place in 1995. But between April 1998 
and April 2006 all OPSs were required by legislation to offer an AVC scheme. So I am 
satisfied that an AVC scheme would have been available to Mr M from his OPS in 1993.
The letter that HWFS sent to Mr Ms pension plan provider said that he was particularly 
interested in transferring his contributions to a FSAVC. So I think it reasonable to conclude 
that the future pension contributions were something that had been discussed between Mr M 
and HWFS, and he received, at the very least, information about the FSAVC scheme from 
the firm. Whilst the pension providers response was sent directly to Mr M I think it unlikely 
he would have acted on its contents without further discussions with HWFS.
I havent seen anything to suggest that HWFS did meet its regulatory obligations to Mr M in 
terms of providing him with information about the AVC scheme offered by the OPS. As 
I explained earlier an AVC scheme would in most cases be more attractive to a consumer 
than a FSAVC scheme  the contributions being made would receive the same taxation 
treatment, but would benefit from lower charges and so generate a higher pension income at 
retirement. There is nothing I have seen in Mr Ms circumstances that might suggest the 
FSAVC scheme would have been more beneficial for him.So on balance I think it most likely that HWFS failed to make Mr M aware that he could pay 
additional pension contributions to the OPS in the form of AVCs, rather than to the FSAVC 
scheme. I think had Mr M been given that information hed have most likely chosen to make 
his monthly contributions to the AVC scheme. Mr M continued to make additional 
contributions until 2003 so I think he has most likely lost out as a result of HWFSs failings. 
So HWFS needs to put things right for Mr M.
I havent however seen anything that confirms Mr M would have been able to transfer his 
previous pension savings into the AVC scheme provided by the OPS. Doing that might have 
been possible, but despite their best efforts the current administrators of the OPS have failed 
to identify any relevant information about such transfers. So I must reasonably conclude that 
Mr M would most likely have made his existing pension plan paid up in 1993, and so its 
value shouldnt form part of the compensation I am directing below.
Putting things right
HWFS should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.  
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. The guidance also provides information about assumed 
levels of charges if the actual rates arent available from the OPS.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, HWFS should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
It is clear that resolving these issues will have had an impact of Mr Ms retirement planning 
activities. So HWFS should pay Mr M a further sum of £150 to reflect the trouble and upset 
he has been caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct HW Financial Services Limited 
to put things right as detailed above. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman