DRN-3983128
The complaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank PLC trading as Barclaycard has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a payment he made on his credit card to purchase some land.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 7 February 2023 in which I set out the 
background and explained my findings to both parties, so I will summarise the surrounding 
circumstances only briefly:
Mr F used his Barclays credit card in January 2021 to pay £10,000 to an auction 
company (FP), covering a £7,000 deposit for a plot of land hed agreed to buy for 
£70,000, and a £3,000 admin fee. The vendor of the land was not FP.
The property had been advertised for sale with an incorrect title plan which showed 
the area of land as being larger than it actually was, or had been intended to be 
offered for sale. This came to light during the process of completing the purchase 
and Mr F was given the option by the vendor of pulling out of the sale and getting his 
deposit back, or proceeding. Mr F chose to pull out.
FP had been holding the deposit but didnt return it. When Mr F asked it to refund the 
money it apparently just told him it was non-refundable.
Mr F sought to dispute the £10,000 payment with Barclays in late February 2021. 
The bank asked him to provide more information, which he did. He also received a 
letter which said interest was being suspended. A few months later he was told by 
Barclays that it couldnt help him because his purchase wasnt covered by Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) because of the price of the property hed 
been trying to buy.
In my provisional decision I noted that Mr F had, while his case had been with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, received a refund of the £10,000 from FP. He said hes incurred legal 
costs in recovering the money and he wanted Barclays to reimburse him for this. I went on to 
make the following provisional findings:
That when a person pays for goods or services using a credit card and something 
goes wrong with the purchase, their card issuer may have an obligation to consider 
either a claim under the relevant sections of the CCA, or they may be able to help via 
the interbank dispute resolution scheme operated by the card scheme 
(chargeback). I noted that chargebacks were not a way of determining a persons 
legal rights, and were just a way of resolving disputes according to the rules of the 
relevant card scheme.
That, on the balance of probabilities, it had been the vendor who had been 
responsible for the incorrect title plan being used to advertise the land. This was 
firstly because although the vendor claimed FP had failed to use an updated title plan 
when marketing the plot, this title plan was dated after the sale had been made. And 
secondly, as FP was the vendors agent its possible the vendor would have been 
considered legally responsible for FP providing incorrect information in any event.
Mr F wasnt able to make a valid claim against Barclays under the relevant sections 
of the CCA (sections 56 and 75) because to do so he needed to have a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the company hed paid using his 
credit card. Mr F had paid FP, but his potential claim was against the vendor, 
meaning he couldnt have a valid claim against Barclays.
As a matter of good practice, Id have expected Barclays to attempt a chargeback 
where this would have had a reasonable prospect of succeeding. I had read the 
relevant rules and guidance issued by the card scheme (Visa) and these indicated 
Mr F had provided enough information for Barclays to attempt a chargeback on the 
grounds that what Mr F had purchased was not as described.
I noted chargebacks were not guaranteed to succeed and from what we knew of FPs 
attitude to providing a refund, it would probably have tried to fight the chargeback on 
the grounds that the money paid was non-refundable. However, guidance from the 
card scheme suggested that reliance on a refund policy was no defence to a 
chargeback brought on the grounds that something was not as described. So I 
thought it would have been difficult for FP to mount a valid defence.
While Barclays had sought to argue that in its experience a chargeback in this 
situation wouldnt have been successful, I thought this was too vague an argument to 
be persuasive. I thought there was a reasonable prospect of success so Barclays 
should have attempted a chargeback. 
This meant Mr F had been denied the opportunity of obtaining a refund via a 
chargeback. He would not have had to pay interest on the £10,000 for as long had 
the bank attempted a chargeback and it had been successful. I thought it would be 
fair and reasonable that Barclays refunded any interest, fees or charges associated 
with the £10,000 transaction, dating back to the date Mr F initially disputed the 
amount with the bank.
I did not think it was reasonable for Barclays to cover Mr Fs legal costs. Ultimately, 
the underlying dispute had been between Mr F, the vendor and FP. Mr Fs costs 
arose from the positions taken by the parties to that dispute (which didnt involve 
Barclays). Had the bank carried out a successful chargeback it wouldnt necessarily 
have extinguished the underlying dispute. Mr F could have found himself pursued by 
FP or the vendor had they felt he legally owed them money which had been wrongly 
(in their eyes) refunded via a chargeback. And so he might have been put to further 
expense anyway.
I asked both parties to the complaint to provide any further submissions by 21 February 
2023. 
Mr F said he would accept the direction Id made in the decision for Barclays to refund 
interest, and provided details of interest he had been charged on his account, which he said 
came to about £630. Barclays hasnt responded specifically to the provisional decision, but it 
did email our investigator with an explanation of how it deals with suspensions of interest 
when a customer wants to dispute a transaction.
As the deadline for further submissions has passed the case has been returned to me to 
review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to the complaint has submitted further arguments for me to consider, so it 
follows that I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings as summarised above. 
This means I will be upholding Mr Fs complaint on the grounds that Barclays should have 
attempted a chargeback but did not, and this deprived Mr F of an opportunity to receive a 
refund of the £10,000 payment far sooner. To put things right, it will need to refund all 
interest, fees and charges associated with the transaction dating back to when Mr F first 
raised the dispute over it. 
Because Mr F will be getting a substantial refund of interest anyway, I dont consider there is 
a need for me to determine whether or not the bank promised to suspend interest on the 
transaction (or on what terms or for how long). Mr F has helpfully summarised interest that 
hes paid on the credit card, but Barclays will be in a position to verify the exact amounts 
charged on the transaction, so I will leave it up to the bank to implement my directions 
accurately. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in the summary of my provisional findings, I uphold 
Mr Fs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to:
A) Refund all interest, fees and charges associated with the £10,000 payment Mr F 
made to FP in January 2021, dated from the date Mr F notified the bank that he was 
looking to dispute the payment, to the date this complaint is settled.
B) If, after providing the refund in A), Mr F would be left with a credit balance on his 
credit card, Barclays must arrange for that credit balance to be transferred to a 
current account in Mr Fs name. 
C) If, after providing the refund in A), Mr F has a debit balance, some or all of which 
relates to the original £10,000 payment, then for the avoidance of doubt Barclays can 
continue to charge interest on this in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. My direction to refund interest applies only up to the date the complaint is 
settled, it is not an ongoing waiver.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman