DRN-3900276
The complaint
Mrs S complains an appointed representative of Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter) gave her 
unsuitable advice to move her pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest 
in high-risk investments.
What happened
Mrs S had a financial adviser, Mr W. Mrs Ss husband, Mr S, had been corresponding with 
Mr W about moving Mrs Ss three pensions to a SIPP to invest in a Jatropha Green Oil 
Investment. Ive been provided with emails between Mr W and Mr S on 14 July 2009. In 
response to a question about whether a SIPP provider would accept the Biofuels 
investment theyd been discussing, Mr W replied:
Ive just chased them up and spoke tothe SIPP department who have said no they 
wont do it sadly. Their official answer is that it is not an investment wrapper but an 
investment in trees.
To which Mr S replied:
Id rather invest in trees than wrappers any day !!!
The way Id like to go:-
For me
Transferinto the Life Time SIPP to invest in the Jatropha Green Oil Investment  
nursery program
For [Mrs S]
Transferinto Lifetime SIPP
LifeTime SIPP into the Jatropha Green Oil Investment  Nursery program.
It seems Mr W did a number of fact finds and financial review documents for Mr and Mrs S 
around this time  some before this email conversation and some after. And one of Mrs Ss 
previous pension providers corresponded with Mr W on 14 August 2009.
Its not clear how Mrs S was then passed to Mr M of Chartered Financial Solutions Ltd 
(Chartered). Mr M says Mr W asked me to help. Mrs S hasnt referred to Mr Ws 
involvement and has simply said it was Mr M that advised her to move her pensions to a 
SIPP to make the three unsuitable investments that were then made.
But what is certain is that Mr M became involved at that point. Ive been provided with a copy 
of an undated letter to the SIPP provider on Chartered branded paper. This read:
Please find enclosed the application and transfer forms for my client, [Mrs S].
I am a little concerned that there is nowhere on the form for my details. I am part of 
Mint Network. I have spoken to you previously with regards to this and have 
forwarded the agreement to Mint for completion. Can you please confirm that this has 
been received or if not please advise?
The new SIPP checklist included Mint Financial Services (Mint) and Chartered in the adviser 
section and a money laundering check that was done referred to the introducer as 
Chartered.
It does seem as though Mr W still had some involvement at that point though as he sent a 
letter to the SIPP provider and certified a copy of Mrs Ss passport on 15 September 2009.
The only investment documentation Ive been given is an application form for Carbon Credit 
Farming. That made no mention of either Mr W or Mr M and instead listed a completely 
different business in the adviser section. I havent been given any documentation that relates 
to the other investments that were made.
From Mrs Ss SIPP statements, I can see that:
The SIPP was opened on 17 September 2009.
£3,322.09 was received from a previous pension on 16 October 2009.
£30,518.43 was received from a previous pension on 23 October 2009.
£15,000 was invested in Carbon Credit Farming on 28 October 2009.
£18,000 was invested in a Rowan Dartington portfolio on 5 November 2009.
£1,290.35 was received from a previous pension on 25 January 2010.
£13,600 was invested in Citadel on 16 September 2011.
Various returns totalling just over £17,000 were received between November 2010 
and November 2011.
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr M was at Chartered 
between 7 July 2008 and 14 May 2021 and that business was an appointed representative 
of Quilter between 8 May 2009 and 14 May 2021 (its name at the time of the events 
complained about here was Mint but for ease Ill refer to it as Quilter in this decision). Mrs S 
therefore complained to Quilter.
Quilter issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. In summary, it said there 
was no evidence advice had been given as Quilter. It said the business hadnt been 
submitted to it, it received no renumeration and it didnt have a business relationship with 
any of the investment providers. It said, even if Mr M had been acting as Quilter, this would 
have been outside the authority itd given him. And it said the complaint had been made 
outside the time limits in any event.
An investigator initially said the complaint was one we could consider and that it should be 
upheld. However, Mr M then sent the emails of 14 July 2009 referred to above as well as 
various fact finds and paperwork that documented Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time. 
Mr M said:See the attached emails between [Mr S] (who was driving this along from the start) 
and the adviser who asked me to help, the emails show the lengths he had gone to 
research the bio fuel investment he wanted to make even contacting the company 
and getting a discount on the initial charge.
The only investment ever mentioned to me was the one [Mr S] wanted and spoke 
about in his email. I have no idea where the other two came from. In [Mr Ss] email, 
he details what he wants to happen, where to transfer the funds and then into the 
Jatropha investment, no others were mentioned so this is completely wrong to bring 
these others into it
I was told at the time that [Mr S] had already invested or was about to invest into this 
fund, hence getting a reduction on the charges from the provider of the investment. 
This was something he was determined to invest in whatever. I never completed any 
paperwork for any investment, this was all completed between [Mr S] and the SIPP 
provider
I had never heard of Lifetime SIPP and it was because [Mr S] knew they accepted 
this investment (see his email) that I contacted them and then used them, but this 
was just to facilitate what he or they wanted to do and invest in
I had never done any business like this before and spoke to the then compliance 
person at Mintwho confirmed what I had to do and also checked the case.
The investment risk profiler and fact finds provided suggest that although Mrs S wasnt 
employed, she was receiving £1,500 a month in rental income (as was Mr S) from a number 
of overseas properties they owned which were worth a considerable amount. A net asset 
summary showed them as having £65,000 in savings and investments and almost £2.5 
million in property. And some of the documents suggested Mrs S had investment experience 
and a speculative attitude to risk.
The investigator revisited his opinion in light of this new information and said that although 
his opinion on whether we could consider the complaint hadnt changed, his view on the 
merits of the complaint had and he was now satisfied the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He 
said it was clear Mr S had been driving things and that even if Mr M had done everything he 
should have, Mrs S still would have gone ahead and moved her pensions to the SIPP to 
make the investments. As part of this view, he said he assumed the Carbon Credit Farming 
investment Mrs S made was the biofuel investment thatd been referred to in the emails.
Mrs S didnt contradict the investigators assumption that the Carbon Credit Farming 
investment was the one that had been discussed in the emails provided. But she didnt 
agree with the outcome the investigator had reached. Ive read and considered everything 
her representative has said. In summary, it said:
The information Mr M provided in response to the investigators first view should 
have been provided much earlier in the complaint process. Its also only extracts of 
what happened and Mr M should be asked for his full file.
The financial review document, fact find and investment risk profile werent signed by 
Mrs S and theres no evidence they were completed in her presence.
On one of the documents, a risk assessment of balanced had been crossed out and 
speculative inserted and theres nothing to suggest Mrs S knew about that change.Mr M took a fee of £1,353.62 for advice and he should have given suitable impactful 
advice for a fee of that magnitude.
Theres no evidence that Mrs S expressed an opinion about investment choices for 
her pension.
Its not a reasonable defence to say Mr M should have made the arrangements on an 
execution-only basis.
It was obviously a high-risk investment, and the fact Mr S was looking to make the 
same investment doubled their exposure.
Mrs S had no employment income and wouldnt have been able to readily make up 
any losses.
Theres no verification that the risk tolerance information from Mr W was genuine.
We cant base what Mrs S would have done on emails Mr S sent. Theres no 
evidence Mrs S was an insistent client or someone who was prepared to ignore 
professional advice.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
The events complained about here were in September 2009. Mrs S complained to Quilter on 
20 September 2019. So, the complaint is outside the first part of the time limit  i.e. it was 
made more than six years after the events complained about.The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the 
second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Mrs S 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, she had cause for complaint.
Mrs S says she didnt know she had cause for complaint until 2017 when she contacted the 
SIPP provider to disinvest and was told she couldnt as the investments were illiquid.
Quilter says she would have been aware of the decrease in value of her SIPP from the 
annual statements shed have been sent.
Unfortunately, the SIPP provider hasnt been able to provide any annual statements that 
were sent to Mrs S and Mrs S says she never received any. Mrs S says the only thing she 
received were fee notifications and these didnt give her any reason to think there was an 
issue. Without being able to see what Mrs S was sent and when, I cant say that it ought 
reasonably to have made her aware of cause for complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that it seems a £420 payment was made to a claims 
management company on 28 June 2012 but unfortunately Mrs S has no recollection of this 
payment and hasnt been able to find any documentation relating to it. Without further 
information about what prompted that payment, I cant reasonably conclude that Mrs S was 
aware of cause for complaint.
Taking everything into account, Ive not seen anything that satisfies me Mrs S ought 
reasonably to have known of cause for complaint more than three years before she 
complained. Im therefore satisfied she made her complaint within the time limits.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Chartered (and therefore Mr M) wasnt 
directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an 
authorised firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities 
including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore 
consider complaints about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed 
representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. The 
starting point for deciding whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr M here is to 
consider the terms of the contract between Quilter and Chartered.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mrs S has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mrs S has complained about?
Mrs S complains Mr M gave her unsuitable advice to move her pensions to a SIPP to invest 
in high-risk investments.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
arranging deals in investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
It's clear that Mr M carried out at least one regulated activity here as he was involved in 
making the arrangements for Mrs S to move her pensions to a SIPP.
I havent been provided with any evidence that satisfies me its most likely Mr M advised 
Mrs S in relation to any of the investments in the SIPP, or made arrangements for them. 
Although Mrs S says Mr M advised her, shes made no mention of Mr W in her recollections despite it being clear that it was Mr W who was carrying out fact finds and emailing Mr S 
about the biofuel investment. Mr M says the only investment that was ever mentioned to him 
was the biofuel investment which he says was being pushed by Mr S. He also says he 
wasnt involved in arranging any of the investments. Mr M wasnt named as the adviser on 
the application for the Carbon Credit Farming investment and I havent been provided with 
the documentation for the other investments.
Its also not clear to me that Mr M gave Mrs S any advice on moving her pensions to a SIPP, 
but I havent addressed this in this decision because even if Im satisfied he did give advice 
on moving her pensions to a SIPP, I dont think this affects the outcome. Ive explained my 
reasons for this below.
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr M acting for?
To answer whether Quilter accepted responsibility for the acts complained of, the first 
question I need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr M was acting for Quilter when carrying out 
any of the acts.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied he was. I say this because he used Chartered 
branded paper when sending the application and transfer forms to the SIPP provider which 
had a footer which read:
Chartered Financial Solutions Limited is an appointed representative of Mint 
Financial Services Ltd
And the new SIPP checklist listed both Chartered and Mint (now Quilter) as the adviser. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr M held himself out as representing any other 
businesses for these events. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Quilter accepted 
responsibility for the acts complained about under the agreement it had with Chartered.
The agreement with Chartered
The appointed representative agreement between Quilter and Chartered said:
The provisions of Section 39(1) of FSMA shall apply to this Agreement so the 
Appointed Representative shall only carry on the Permitted Activities set out in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Appointed Representative shallOnly advise and arrange deals in respect of 
Permitted Activities for which it is authorised
Permitted Activities was defined as:
The activities regulated by the FSA for which the Appointed Representative is 
expressly authorised under Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
And Schedule 1 said:
The Appointed Representative is appointed and authorised to provide advice and 
make recommendations in respect of the following:
Protection products (excluding Long Term Care Insurance)Investments & Pensions (excluding occupational pension transfers)
Occupational Pension Transfers and Pension Opt Outs
Long Term Care Insurance
The above details those areas of business for which the Appointed Representative 
is authorised. Details of the areas for which each individual adviser is authorised will 
be communicated separately upon appointment.
Some things Chartered wasnt authorised to do were listed but these arent relevant in the 
circumstances here.
So, Im satisfied Quilter accepted responsibility for Mr M making arrangements for Mrs S to 
move her pensions to a SIPP (and advising her on this if he did do this). Im therefore 
satisfied Mrs Ss complaint is one we can consider.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mrs S that whether Mr M advised her or simply arranged the pension switch, it 
seems there may have been shortcomings in his actions. But the key question is what likely 
would have happened if everything had happened as it should have  whether that be that 
suitable advice was given or that a warning was given.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely Mrs S would have gone ahead 
and moved her pensions and made the investments even if Mr M had done everything he 
should have. In other words, shed have been an insistent client. I say this because:
I havent been given any information about the other investments that were made or 
the circumstances behind them. Mr M says they were never mentioned to him, and I 
note one was made approximately two years after the SIPP was set up. It seems to 
me that at the time the SIPP was set up, the biofuel investment is what was driving 
the decision to move to a SIPP. 
Whilst Mrs S may not have expressed a preference for investment choices in her 
pension, its clear that Mr S felt strongly about the biofuel investment. Another SIPP 
provider had said it wouldnt accept it and it seemed Mr S had gone away and 
researched whether there were any that would. Specifically, he said Id rather invest 
in trees than wrappers any day !!! Whilst I accept this email was from Mr S rather 
than Mrs S, I note that Mrs Ss representative told us Mr S has more knowledge of 
the pension transfer and its clear from the emails at the time that it was Mr S driving 
things.
The relationship with Mr M seems to have been a new one  he wasnt a long-
standing adviser whod built up trust over time. Given that Mr and Mrs S knew lots of 
SIPP providers had considerable reservations over one of the investments Mrs S 
was planning to make and proceeded, I dont have any reason to think suitable 
advice or a warning from Mr M would have changed Mrs Ss mind.Although Mrs S didnt have an income from employment, it seems she was receiving 
regular rental income. And although she may not have held any pensions other than 
those that were moved to the SIPP, she and Mr S had some savings and 
investments and held a considerable property portfolio between them. Whilst the 
money she had in her pensions was not an insignificant amount, when taken as a 
proportion of the total assets she and Mr S held, it seems likely it wasnt integral to 
her future plans.
For the avoidance of doubt, I havent placed weight on the risk assessment conclusions Ive 
been provided with because, as Mrs Ss representative pointed out, these arent signed by 
Mrs S and its not clear that she was aware of them and had agreed they were accurate. I 
agree with Mrs Ss representative that the information Mr M provided should have been 
shared with it far earlier in the complaint, but that doesnt change my decision. And Im 
satisfied I have enough evidence to reach that decision.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied Mrs Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Quilter Wealth Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman