DRN-4211549
The complaint
Mr P complains about the repairs that esure Insurance Limited made to his car following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was involved in a collision with an animal, and he made a claim on his policy. esure 
took the car for repairs, but when it was returned a warning light came on. esure said this 
wasnt accident-related but due to wear and tear. Mr P had the fault repaired under warranty. 
He thought it was related to the previous repairs. Mr P said the stress of dealing with this 
matter harmed his health and he was unable to use his car for long journeys. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
hadnt sufficiently investigated the matter before rejecting the fault as non-accident related. 
He thought Mr P had shown that the fault was more likely than not related to the accident. 
And so he thought esure should pay Mr P £400 compensation for his trouble and upset and 
consider evidence of the alternative travel costs hed incurred. 
esure replied that it thought there was no evidence to support that the issue was accident-
related. It thought it was due to an anomaly with the car. It questioned what evidence there 
was to show that Mr Ps health had been affected. And it reiterated its offer of £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill to resolve the complaint. But Mr P remained unhappy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P was adamant that the overheating warning light wasnt on before the accident and the 
subsequent repairs. And I have no reason to doubt his account. But esure was adamant that 
this wasnt accident related. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Ive looked at the evidence that esure had to consider: 
The initial repairs report said that the cooling system was flushed out and the coolant 
replaced. 
Mr P returned the car to the esures approved repairer after a warning light came on. He 
said a roadside recovery agent had said the light was due to a faulty sensor and the car 
wasnt overheating. The repairer thought there may be an airlock. It bled the system, 
topped up coolant and checked the sensors. It tested the coolant system and couldnt 
find any faults with this or the electrics. But the problem recurred when the car was 
returned to Mr P. It thought the error may be due to a previously replaced engine. 
esure instructed a dealers garage to inspect the car to decide whether this was due to 
wear and tear or faulty due to the impact damage. esure told Mr P that the dealer had 
said the fault was a sticking water pump that wasnt related to the accident. It said the 
dealer advised to replace the water pump and cam belt. esures engineer considered this 
and decided that the fault wasnt accident related. 
Mr P obtained the dealers reports. These said the that the water pump may be sticking, 
and this was a good place to start the diagnosis. 
Mr P then took the car to the same dealers garage. Mr P said the garage couldnt 
confirm whether the fault was accident related. Mr P said it told him that there may be an 
airlock and flushing and re-filling the cooling system should be considered.
Mr P took the car back to esures garage under a warranty claim and it again flushed and 
refilled the cooling system, and the problem was resolved. The garage stated in an email 
to Mr P:
We carried out a full coolant system flush and pressure refill to eliminate any 
possibilities of air locks and/or coolant leaks. (we also originally did this when the vehicle 
first arrived on site for the insurance claim)
Once the coolant system was completely refilled we carried out a road test long enough 
to get the vehicle to reach running temperature.
No faults were present when we had the vehicle
esure maintained that the fault could have been mechanical and there was no evidence that 
it was related to the accident.
But the warning appeared not long after Mr P started reusing the car after the repairs. A 
significant part of the repairs related to the cooling system. The repairer resolved the 
problem by repeating work that it had previously done under the claim. There was evidently 
no wear and tear issue with the water pump. The dealer made no comment on whether or 
not the fault was accident-related. And esure did not follow-up its suggestion of investigating 
the problem by starting with the water pump.
I cant say whether or not the fault was or wasnt accident-related. But Im not satisfied that 
esure justified its decision that the fault wasnt accident-related. I think it should have further 
investigated the fault after the dealers inspection before dismissing responsibility for it. It 
was only when Mr P pressed the dealers garage further that the problem was identified and 
resolved.  
When a business makes a mistake, as I think esure has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
Mr P didnt incur any costs in having the fault rectified. And his car is now reportedly in good 
working order. But he did have to pursue this matter over several months and was without 
the full use of his car during this time. Mr P has described the effect this had on his 
commuting to work as he had to rely on public transport. He incurred extra costs for these 
journeys. And he told esure at the time when he made his complaint about the stress the 
matter was causing him and the effect it was having on his mental health.  Our Investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr P £400 compensation for the 
trouble and upset its handling of the repairs caused him. I think this is in keeping with our 
published guidance where there has been a significant impact over several months. And so I 
think thats fair and reasonable. And I also think esure should reasonably consider travel 
expenses incurred by Mr P whilst he was unable to use his car, upon receipt of evidence for 
these. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim and to consider his alternative travel costs 
upon receipt of evidence for these.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman