DRN-4263292
The complaint
Mr As complained about First Rate Exchange Services Ltds handling of his pre-paid travel 
money card account.
What happened
Mr A was on holiday abroad when he had trouble making transactions using his travel 
money card. He called First Rate to report the problem and believed his card would start 
working again the next day. After having to report further problems, he complained to First 
Rate.
First Rate considered the complaint and found that it wasnt at fault for the transactions not 
being processed. But First Rate accepted that it had inadvertently mis-informed Mr A over 
the phone as to the reasons why certain transactions may not have gone through. It 
apologised for that and offered to pay Mr A £30 as compensation. It also offered redeem the 
funds in the account and move them to his bank account at the same rate at which hed 
transferred them.
Unhappy with First Rates response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter and ultimately recommended that First Rate should 
increase its offer of compensation to £155 in total. 
While First Rate accepted the investigators recommendation, Mr A didnt confirm if he was 
willing to accept it. So, the complaint was passed to me review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr A experienced problems in using his First Rate account while 
abroad. I realise this must have been very frustrating for him. In response to the 
investigators final assessment, First Rates agreed to increase its initial offer of 
compensation of £30 to £155.
I need to decide whether the increased offer represents fair compensation for Mr A in the 
circumstances. In doing that, Ive thought very carefully about what Mr As told us about how 
First Rates actions impacted on his family holiday and the trouble he was put to as a result. 
For example, in having to borrow money from friends to spend while abroad.
While I dont doubt that Mr As holiday was affected by the issues he experienced, its 
important to draw a distinction between the events First Rate was responsible for and those 
it wasnt. Thats because this complaints against First Rate and not any other party or 
financial business. 
It seems that Mr A was able to use his account card at the very start of the holiday before 
encountering problems. I cant be certain as to why that was the case  the video evidence 
Mr A provided doesnt, in my view, shed significant light on that aspect  but Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest First Rate had blocked the card or account. First Rate claims the 
problems in carrying out the intended transactions were due to errors by the merchants that 
processed the payments, rather than by First Rate itself. I gather First Rate did indicate to 
Mr A at one stage that it had experienced technical problems which may have affected him. 
But it later clarified in its final response letter that this was for a short time one day in early 
September 2022 and that these hadnt in fact affected the transactions Mr A had attempted 
to make. 
Overall, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to find that First Rate was at fault for 
the problems Mr A encountered while abroad. Or that it should compensate him for the cost 
of his holiday. That said, I realise it must have been confusing for Mr A to have been told 
initially that he may have been affected by the wider technical issues First Rate had 
experienced, only to be told later that that wasnt the case. And I think First Rate could have 
handled Mr As subsequent complaint more quickly than it did. 
Taking everything into account, I believe that it would be fair for First Rate to pay Mr A £155 
in total as compensation for the poor service its provided him with. That total includes any 
amounts its previously offered or paid.
Its open for Mr A to provide his bank name, sort code and account number to First Rate so it 
can return his funds to him at the same rate as at the time of the initial transfer.
Putting things right
First Rate should pay Mr A £155 in total as compensation for the confusion and 
inconvenience its caused him if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint in part. I require First Rate Exchange 
Services Ltd to put things right for Mr A as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman