DRN-4325619
The complaint
Mr R complains about the installation of solar panels that he funded using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to pay for solar 
panels to be installed. The supplier didnt though install the panels or the overall system 
correctly and this damaged Mr Rs roof. 
Mr R raised a claim to BPF under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) 
for underperformance of the solar panels and their poor installation. BPF upheld both claims. 
They offered Mr R just over £3,500 to make the solar panels self-funding which he 
accepted. BPF arranged for an independent contractor Ill call Q to inspect the installation 
as the supplier had ceased to trade. And they subsequently asked Q to arrange for the 
required remedial works to be completed. 
Mr R said the remedial works werent satisfactory. He said: 
There were still areas of the roof with misaligned tiles as there was insufficient 
remaining batten to fit the tiles straight.
The tiles used by the repairer were a metric size where the existing ones were 
imperial. This meant the smaller metric tiles didnt span the battens correctly which 
caused a gap under the tiles and led them to slip.
The timber holding on to the tiles had been significantly damaged by the initial 
installation and the subsequent repair attempts. This led to water ingress.
The batten holding the tiles had been split and damaged which prevented the 
replacement tiles being fitted in a neat row and overall left the roof in a fragile state.
BPF didnt initially uphold Mr Rs complaint as they felt Q had shown their repairs were 
satisfactory. So, Mr R referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked Mr R for further evidence to support his complaint which he then sent 
on to BPF. BPF then arranged for a surveyor to inspect Mr Rs roof. The surveyor attended 
Mr Rs property in November 2022 and compiled a report in which he summarised his 
conclusions as follows:
The roof appears to have been extensively altered with numerous repairs evident 
throughout the rear roof covering. Some slates have been incorrectly fitted resulting in gaps 
to the underside of some slates where they have lifted. Modern slates have been fitted to the 
roof which are a slightly different size to the original slates, resulting in wide gaps of 20mm 
or so between some areas of re-fitted slates. 
He went on to say:
It is my view that the extent of repairs, the quality of repairs and the poor fitting of the solar 
panels and cabling is not acceptable. It is my view that the solar panels should be removed 
and set aside. The rear roof slope stripped and re-slated with new support brackets installed 
at appropriate locations and the solar panels re-fitted, with a drip loop to the cable. 
BPF asked Q to provide a quote for remediation works in line with the surveyors report. Q 
quoted £11,400 but said they werent able to send anyone out to complete the required 
work. So BPF offered to pay Mr R £12,000 to allow him to contact his own roofing expert to 
complete the works. This offer included a £500 increase to Qs quote and £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr R had been caused.
Mr R arranged to get a couple of quotes so he could understand if BPFs offer covered the 
required remedial works. The first was for £15,400 and the second was for around £23,250.  
The second quote included a cost for disposal of suspected or confirmed asbestos waste. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
no dispute there had been a breach of contract and that BPF should arrange to put things 
right. Initially, he felt the quote for £15,400 was a reasonable basis to establish the cost that 
Mr R would incur if he was to arrange for and pay for the remedial work to be completed. He 
said BPF should either arrange for an alternative contractor to complete the work (bearing in 
mind Q said they couldnt now do so), or to cover the costs of the quote for £15,400. 
Mr R didnt feel the recommendation was fair bearing in mind the second quote mentioned 
potential asbestos and the cost involved in removing this (if it were to be found). Our 
investigator subsequently recommended that BPF should cover this cost if that work was 
needed. And he felt that BPFs offer of £100 for distress and inconvenience was fair. 
BPF agreed with our investigators recommendation, but Mr R mentioned he would be liable 
for the cost if the panels then failed following the works. 
As agreement ultimately couldnt be reached between the parties, Mr Rs complaint has 
been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr R to hold BPF responsible for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded here. There are certain technical criteria that must be met for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These 
criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction, or the way 
the payment was made. 
I am satisfied the criteria is in place for Section 75 to apply to this transaction. So, given     
Mr Rs issue, for me to find that BPF needs to act in respect of his complaint, Id need to be 
satisfied there has been a breach of contract by the supplier. 
I note that Mr R made two claims to BPF. The first of these related to the performance of the 
solar panels and representations made about this. BPF made an offer to Mr R, and this was 
accepted by him. Its not clear to me whether Mr R still disputes this part of his complaint. 
But, as he accepted BPFs offer, and his more recent correspondence has been around the 
damage to his roof, I have decided that I wont be looking at this aspect any further. 
It seems to me that the breach of contract relating to the installation of the solar panels 
which has caused damage to Mr Rs roof isnt disputed. I say this because BPF has 
accepted that the installation of the solar panels wasnt done correctly and caused damage 
to Mr Rs roof. The offers they have made since reflect that. For the avoidance of any doubt 
though, I find there was a breach of contract by the supplier. The inspections that have been 
carried out and the photographs Mr R has sent in as evidence confirm that. And, as Ive 
mentioned, BPF can be held liable for the suppliers breach of contract.  
The outstanding issue is how BPF should put things right for Mr R. It seems that BPF are 
agreeable to Mr R arranging a suitable third party to carry out the required remedial works, 
as their preferred contractor in Q wont currently arrange this. Ive seen the quotes that Mr R 
has provided and agree with our investigator that the first quote provided for £15,400 looks 
to be comparable with the quote Q initially gave. So, I think its fair to use that as a basis for 
what BPF need to cover financially. 
I also find that BPF should cover the cost of any asbestos removal and disposal that the 
second quote set out. Its unclear whether this is needed or whether the company who 
provided the quote put that in to cover this if its needed. Nevertheless, if this is needed, BPF 
should cover that cost and in good time so that the overall necessary remedial work is 
carried out without delay.
BPF may still wish to arrange for their own preferred contractor to carry out the necessary 
works. If so, that should be done at no cost to Mr R. 
I note that Mr R is concerned that he will have to cover any cost if the solar panels fail as a 
result of the required remedial works. I understand Mr Rs concerns, but this isnt something 
that is guaranteed to happen. If it does, and it can be shown that this has happened because 
of the remedial works, he should refer the matter back to BPF so they can consider this. I 
cant though make an award based on this currently as it is a hypothetical situation at 
present. Id just add that BPF has been amenable to ensuring Mr Rs complaint is resolved 
to his satisfaction and they should ensure that they continue to be so.
I find that Mr R has been caused distress and inconvenience and find that a payment of 
£100 is warranted for this from BPF. Putting things right
BPF should do one of the following:
Arrange for a contractor to complete the required remedial works, as set out in the 
inspection from November 2022;
Cover the costs of a comparable quote for those works to be completed, as provided 
by Mr R.
BPF should also pay Mr R for the cost of removal and disposal of asbestos if this is required 
and upon suitable evidence of this from him. 
BPF should pay Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by this 
matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to carry out what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman