DRN-3688342
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her account and registered a 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss R says she gave her account number and sort code to a friend at school who wanted to 
receive money while waiting for their own bank card. And that he must have obtained her 
security details from her phone when she left the classroom and so could use her online 
banking. He also sent several false emails from her email account about the source of a 
payment. Mis R says she wrote to NatWest about this and had no response.
NatWest said it hadnt made any mistake. A payment of £735 was received on 4 December 
2020 into Miss Rs account and the money was quickly sent on using online banking. The 
payment has been reported as fraudulently obtained. And it had spoken to Miss R on 2 
December 2020 about a new device on her account which she confirmed as genuine, and 
her account was unblocked. So, it had registered the marker and closed her account.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There is a high bar for a 
CIFAS marker. Hed listened to the call recording NatWest had provided. And seen its 
contact notes about Miss R telling it that this payment was from her godfather for Christmas 
gifts for her and her brother. He thought it highly unlikely that a fraudster would have gone to 
the trouble of sending the emails. And that Miss R either made the transfers herself or 
allowed someone else to use her account.
Miss R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She didnt feel wed listened 
to her explanation about the passwords being stored on her phone. This marker was having 
an impact on her ability to get an account and has affected her mental health. She said she 
is in the process of reporting the person involved and was unhappy that she is being blamed 
when there are no repercussions for him especially as she said he has done this to others.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Miss R was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether she has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
In the complaint description form she sent to NatWest she explained that someone had 
asked to use her account to receive £20 and then not done so. A couple of weeks had 
passed, and she thought nothing of it. Her passwords could be accessed through a notes 
app and there was no security on her phone. And she didnt realise about the emails until 
about 13 December 2020 as she didnt access her email account very often. She was busy 
and sent an email to NatWest about this a week later and didnt hear back.
Ive also listened to the call Miss R had with NatWest. A new device had been registered to 
her online banking which would have alerted her to potential concerns. But she said that this 
was something shed expected. As a result, her account and card were unblocked. The 
payment was received, and the money moved on 4 December 2020. Miss R has provided a 
copy of an email she sent on 5 December 2020 asking for her account to be unblocked. 
NatWest had received the fraud report and it notes her explanation of what happened on 9 
December 2020. It wrote to her on 15 December 2020 saying that her account would be 
closed. It has no record of any further response until her complaint in December 2021. 
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.   
Miss R accepts that she wanted her account to be unblocked. And she knew that another 
device had been registered. On her version of events she had accessed her email account 
to send an email to NatWest. And I consider it would be unlikely that a fraudster would go to 
the trouble then of explaining the credit  especially when all the money had been taken. I 
find it most likely that Miss R reasonably knew that her account was being used for 
fraudulent activity even if she wasnt making the payment herself. And so, I find that she was 
deliberately complicit in what happened. 
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss R received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Rs account of events and the evidence she has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss R received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money.- NatWest had grounds to believe that Miss R had been involved in the dispersal of 
fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it had.
Given these findings I consider it also had grounds to decide to close her account.
I appreciate what Miss R says about the impact of the marker for her and her personal 
difficulties. And so, I know shes going to be disappointed when I say that I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman