DRN-3201346
The complaint
Mr I complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says hes experienced 
numerous faults with the car since he acquired it in November 2019. And he wants all the 
outstanding faults repaired at no cost to him and he wants the cost of the repairs he had 
carried out to be refunded. Mr I is represented in this complaint by Mr T.
What happened
Mr I entered a hire purchase agreement in November 2019 to acquire a used car. At the time 
of the acquisition, the car was around two years old and had been driven just over 25,000 
miles. Mr T told us:
hes had a number of issues and faults with the car from the first day of supply, but 
the dealership wasnt able to replicate some of the them as they were intermittent;
the first major problem was with the brake callipers which also caused abnormal wear 
on the disks and pads. The callipers were replaced under the warranty by the 
dealership, and it reluctantly paid for new disks and pads as a gesture of goodwill, 
but not before hed received a fine for driving with defective brakes; 
the car made a knocking noise and a defective drive shaft was diagnosed. The 
dealership replaced the rear engine mounts, but this didnt fix the problem. Further 
diagnosis identified a fault with the gearbox;
there were further problems with the body control module, and the satnav and radio 
didnt work properly;
at the 39,000-mile mark, the car started pulling to one side and this was attributed to 
the shock absorbers which he paid £700 to repair as this wasnt covered by the 
warranty;
he spent £140 having the GTI badge replaced, a further £300 to have the car cleaned 
and valeted, and £90 for replacement mats;
when the car was returned, it was clear thered been an accident at the dealership 
because the windscreen was cracked, and he had to ask it to replace this;
the dealership replaced the windscreen but in doing so, it damaged the bonnet. And 
although it repainted the bonnet, the paint colour doesnt match the rest of the car, so 
he wants the bonnet repairing and the whole car repainting. A full repaint will also 
address the matter of the damaged paintwork  a result of the car being left in the car 
park and damaged by seagulls;
hes been unable to have the outstanding matters resolved as hes no longer allowed 
in to either of the dealerships in the locality;
the way to resolve his complaint is for the outstanding issues to be addressed  
dashboard repairs; passenger seat fault; and bodywork issues  and for him to be 
refunded for the costs hes incurred in respect of the GTI badge; car mats and shock 
absorbers;
he wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
PSA upheld this complaint  it said it had contacted the dealership and in view of the 
problems outlined by Mr T, the dealership had agreed to his request to reject the car. It 
explained what Mr I and Mr T needed to do to return the vehicle and it said once the vehicle 
had been returned it would cancel the credit agreement and refund the initial deposit and 
monthly instalments.
PSA wrote to Mr I again a short time later. It said Mr T had contacted it and the position had 
changed; Mr T no longer wished to reject the car. Instead he wanted the necessary repairs 
to be completed; specifically, the brake pads and callipers and an investigation of the 
gearbox for possible faults. PSA said it had contacted the dealership which confirmed that 
due to the time that had elapsed, it would no longer accept rejection of the vehicle. But it did 
say that the repairs identified by Mr T could be completed at any approved garage and 
would likely be covered by the warranty.
PSA also said that a vehicle health check undertaken just a few weeks before the car was 
acquired by Mr I confirmed that the vehicles brakes were of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. And it said the issues Mr T had highlighted with the brakes some 5-6 months later 
were clearly a result of normal wear and tear. But it said the dealership had agreed to cover 
the cost of these repairs as a gesture of goodwill even though, as a consumable part, they 
wouldnt be covered under the warranty. It also confirmed that the repairs to the gearbox had 
been finalised and that following road testing, the car would be returned to Mr T.
In conclusion, PSA said it had upheld Mr Ts complaint, but it didnt need to take any further 
action as the required repairs to the brake disks, brake callipers and gearbox had been 
successfully completed at no cost to Mr T.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
because repairs to the brakes, driveshaft, and gearbox were required within only a few 
months of Mr I acquiring the car. But he took into consideration that although rejection of the 
car had been offered, Mr T had declined this and asked for the car to be repaired. And the 
repairs had been completed at no cost to Mr I or Mr T.
The investigator also considered the other points raised by Mr T. He said:
He thought the shock absorbers had reached the end of their natural life span and he 
didnt think theyd been faulty at the point of supply. So, although the cost of 
replacement wasnt covered by the warranty, it wouldnt be fair to ask PSA to refund 
the associated costs.
Mr T had latterly mentioned issues with the radio and light and he understood these 
matters would be looked at by a dealership in the future. But he also explained that 
as Mr I and Mr T hadnt complained about these things to PSA, it wasnt something 
this Service could look into. Theyd need to afford PSA the opportunity to investigate 
and then, if necessary, they could raise a new complaint with this Service.
The issues raised by Mr T about the care taken by the dealership; seagull damage to 
the car and the collision caused by the dealership whilst the car was in their care 
werent things that PSA could be held responsible for. And he advised Mr T to raise 
his complaint directly with the dealership and, if necessary, the Motor Ombudsman.
Mr T rejected the investigators opinion. He said that call recordings would confirm his 
preference had been to reject the car and it was the dealership that told him this was no 
longer an option. But he did confirm that he no longer wished to reject the car now that the 
necessary repairs have been carried out. He said he wanted reimbursing for the costs of the 
replacement car mats and GTI badge, and the repairs to the suspension that had cost him 
£600.Mr I added that he should be awarded compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused. He said significant financial compensation should be considered for the time, 
stress, and inconvenience this has caused over such a prolonged period of time.
Our investigator considered what Mr I and Mr T had said in response to his view. He 
explained he still considered the issue with the shock absorber to be the result of wear and 
tear and this wasnt something he thought PSA was responsible for. And Mr Ts complaints 
about the cost of the mats and badge were something hed need to take up with the 
dealership.
He thought about the distress and worry that Mr I said hed experienced and recommended 
that PSA pay him £250 in recognition of this. He said that although the majority of the faults 
had been repaired at no cost to Mr I or Mr T, he could appreciate the worry and anxiety that 
had been caused over such a long period of time.
Mr T disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the offer of £250 
compensation is an insult. He says the dealership originally agreed to replace the mats and 
badge but then changed its mind, and it shouldve carried out repairs to the shock absorber 
under the warranty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr I is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. PSA is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  PSA in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr I was of satisfactory 
quality or not. And having considered this very carefully I, like our investigator, dont think it 
was. I say this because one of the considerations for whether something is of satisfactory 
quality is whether or not the item in question has proven to be suitably durable.
In view of the faults and problems experienced with this car from the outset, Mr I wouldve 
been within his rights to reject the car. And although theres disagreement between the 
parties about whether or not the dealership agreed to accept rejection of the car, the 
absence of any call recordings means I simply dont know what was said at this time.
I dont think this matters now, however, as Mr T told this Service that he no longer wished to 
reject the car because all the necessary repairs had been carried out.Ive considered very carefully what Mr T says about the dealership initially agreeing to 
replace the car mats and the GTI badges before changing its mind. But this isnt something I 
can hold PSA responsible for. If Mr I and Mr T are unhappy with the actions of the 
dealership, theyd need to complain to it first of all and then, if they remain unhappy with its 
response, they could consider a complaint to the Motor Ombudsman.
Similarly, as the warranty wasnt financed through the hire purchase agreement that Mr I 
took out with PSA, then the disagreements between Mr T and the dealership about whether 
certain work shouldve been covered under the warranty isnt something I can hold PSA 
responsible for. Again, Mr I and Mr T would need to raise a complaint with the dealership 
initially, and if they remain unhappy with its response, they could consider taking a complaint 
to the Motor Ombudsman.
Ive also considered the worry and anxiety that Mr I has experienced because of the faults 
with the car together with the inconvenience hes suffered over such a prolonged period of 
time. And I think PSA should pay him £250 in recognition of this.
Putting things right
I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to put things right by paying Mr I £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman