DRN-4293103
The complaint
Mrs L complains about U K Insurance Limited (Direct Line) for declining cover for her pet 
dogs health condition. She wants Direct Line to accept the claim and reimburse the vet fees 
she has had to pay.
What happened
Mrs L owned a pet springer spaniel (A) from a puppy. Since 2012 she insured A with Direct 
Line. Her policy allowed cover for vets fees of up to £8000 per condition, with no time limit on 
each condition so long as the policy remained in place. 
In 2018, when A was aged around 6, he was diagnosed with a condition called Immune 
Mediated Haemolytic Anaemia (IMHA). The recommended treatment for IMHA was steroid 
drug treatment. 
Mrs L claimed for As care and Direct Line accepted her claim. As condition was managed 
well for a number of years. Direct Line continued to provide cover for the IMHA condition. In 
mid-2022, A became unwell, and Mrs L took him to the vet. The vet considered that A had 
developed Diabetes Mellitus and began treatment for this.
In the clinical notes, As vet initially noted that they presumed that the diabetes was a 
consequence of As long term steroid treatment. 
The vet advised Mrs L that diabetes was a known complication of long-term steroid use and 
recommended that A be weaned off the maintenance dose of steroids. The vet considered 
that if the steroid use was a cause of the diabetes, then stopping the steroid would likely 
improve the diabetes and would make management of the diabetes easier. 
A was weaned off the steroids and A's diabetes did not markedly change. Management of 
As diabetes remained complex. 
Mrs L claimed for As diabetes care. Direct Line reviewed the claim and clinical notes and, 
relying on the vets initial presumption that the diabetes was a secondary condition to the 
steroid use, attributed the diabetes care to the same claim as the IMHA. When the policy 
cover limit was reached, Direct Line then declined further claims. 
Direct Line considers that the diabetes is related to the IMHA, and it should be part of the 
same claim. 
Mrs L complained. She provided to Direct Line a letter from her vet who explained that they 
could not conclude what had caused the diabetes, and that diabetes is a multifactorial 
condition which could be caused by a range of causes, including genetic and environmental 
causes. 
They set out that we will never be able to know if A would have developed diabetes or not 
without [the steroid]. 
Direct Line responded maintaining its decision to decline further claims. It pointed to the vets 
initial presumption and that the vet considered the diabetes to be likely a consequence of the 
steroid use. It acknowledged some customer service failings and offered Mrs L £50 
compensation to reflect these. Mrs L complained to us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
They considered that Direct Lines decision was reasonable. 
Mrs L did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this matter in July 2023. In that provisional 
decision, I set out that I disagreed with Direct Line and that I did not consider it had been 
demonstrated that the diabetes was a secondary condition to the IMHA. I considered that the 
diabetes should have been treated as a distinct claim and that Mrs Ls declined claims 
should be processed under a new claim. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mrs L has responded, accepting the provisional decision and informing me that A has sadly 
passed away since the complaint was made. She explained that A suffered further 
reoccurrence of the IMHA, and also suffered gastric bleeds. She advised that Direct Line 
declined all further claims as being secondary to the IMHA and steroid use, and that this 
caused her financial hardship, having to borrow from relatives to pay the vet bills. 
Direct Line has also replied, not accepting my provisional decision. It said that it had 
considered the vets notes, and later letter, and also had contacted the vet to discuss. Direct 
Line said that the vet had said they couldnt say either way whether the diabetes was 
secondary to the IMHA and steroid use. Based on that, and that it had not seen evidence of 
any other cause of the diabetes, Direct Line had considered that steroid use was the most 
likely cause of the diabetes and so applying the balance of probabilities it thought it was fair 
to incorporate the diabetes treatment into the IMHA claim. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to extend my sincere condolences to Mrs L and her family for their loss. It 
is abundantly clear from the communications on this matter how much they loved A, and 
how severely his loss will be felt. 
I have considered all that Direct Line has said and I remain of the view that it has not been 
shown that the diabetes was a secondary or linked condition. 
In my view, Direct Line has misapplied the test of the balance of probabilities and has 
concluded that because it has not seen another more compelling explanations for the 
diabetes that it is the most likely cause. I disagree and I am looking at whether the steroid 
use or IMHA was more likely than not the cause of the diabetes. This requires a more than 
50% likelihood that the steroid use was the main cause. 
The vet has explained, and Direct Line has reiterated in parts of its submission, that there 
can be a range of factors involved in the development of diabetes. These include age, 
weight, diet and genetic predisposition. I accept that there has not been an explanation of 
which factors were the causes of the diabetes here, but I do not consider that there needs to be. 
In this case, Mrs L submitted a claim for the diabetes treatment, believing it to be a new and 
distinct condition. Based on the information it reviewed, it appeared to Direct Line that it was 
more likely than not that there was a link between the diabetes and the IMHA, based on the 
vets early presumption. As I previously set out, this was not unreasonable at that time. 
However, as the information has moved on, the vet has refined their view and ultimately 
concluded that they could not tell one way or the other, whether the steroid use caused the 
diabetes. I understand this to mean that, in their view, it was equally likely that it was not the 
cause of the diabetes, as that it was. 
The vet set out what clinical responses they would except to have seen if the steroid use 
was a cause, and they did not see those responses occur. There has not been detailed 
analysis of the other possible causes of the diabetes, beyond Direct Lines comments that 
they had not seen evidence that they were likely. This is evidence against steroid use being 
the cause.
It is not fair for Direct Line to limit its assessment to just which is the most likely of the 
possible causes. Direct Line ought to have gone on to consider whether any one factor was 
more than 50% likely the cause of the diabetes. 
In my view it has not been demonstrated that the steroid use was more likely than not the 
cause of the diabetes, and so I do not think that it was fair to incorporate the treatment for 
diabetes into the first claim. It ought to have been treated as a new and distinct condition. 
I therefore uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Direct Line to put matters right. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, Direct Line will need to review all claims made by Mrs L and 
separate them into the IMHA claim and a new claim for diabetes. By properly attributing the 
treatment to the two separate claims it may be that other rejected claims should now be 
settled. 
Mrs L has explained that claims for gastric bleeds were rejected as part of the same 
condition. I would expect that Direct Line now consider whether those claims can succeed 
and set out an answer to Mrs L. For clarity, I have not seen evidence either way as to what 
may have caused the gastric bleeds, but if it was rejected as exceeding the limit of the IMHA 
claim this may now not apply. 
If Mrs L feels that any further conditions have been wrongly characterised as part of the 
IMHA claim she will need to ask Direct Line to first address this and then she may complain 
to us if she remains unhappy. 
I also consider that Mrs L has been caused substantial distress and inconvenience by Direct 
Lines decision in this case. She has advised that she suffered financial hardship and had to 
borrow money from family to continue paying the vets bills. This would have exacerbated the 
clear upset that As health caused her and would have added an extra layer of stress onto 
an already very difficult time. 
Taking into account the information supplied by Mrs L, I remain of the view that Direct Line 
should pay to her £250 compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her through this time. My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and 
direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Accept Mrs Ls claim for As diabetes;
Review all claims made by Mrs L, and reimburse her for vet costs which ought to 
have been accepted;
Add interest to the sums reimbursed to Mrs L at a rate of 8% per annum; and
Pay to Mrs L £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman