DRN-2175455
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) wont refund a payment taken from 
his credit card which he says he didnt agree to.
What happened
Mr F and another person he was travelling with were booked on a package holiday through a 
travel company. The holiday was paid for in advance and went ahead in August 2019. But 
two months later, in October 2019, the hotel theyd stayed in took a payment of £1,156.88 
from the Co-op credit card details Mr F had given when checking-in. Mr F complained to Co-
op as he said he hadnt agreed to the payment and it shouldnt have been allowed to go 
through.
Co-op investigated his complaint and said the hotel said they never received the money from 
the travel company and so took the payment from Mr Fs credit card. Co-op said Mr F had 
willingly given the hotel his card details and so had authorised the payment. And that the 
payment related to a service hed received, so it couldnt do a chargeback on the payment 
either. Mr F wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so he referred his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He felt Co-op had acted reasonably and 
couldnt do anything further to dispute the payment on Mr Fs behalf. Mr F disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Co-op acted reasonably in allowing the payment to go through and 
has done all wed expect to try to dispute the payment. Ill explain why below.
Processing the payment
A bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals a customer authorises it to make.
Its not in dispute that Mr F gave the hotel his card details. I recognise that he didnt intend 
for payment to be taken for costs he thought hed already paid, but this is a dispute between 
Mr F and the hotel. And we wouldnt expect Co-op to know about this or take it into account 
when processing the payment. So the payment taken by the hotel was authorised.
As the payment was authorised, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting 
position is that Mr F is liable for it. And I dont think there was anything about the payment 
which should have to suggested to Co-op that Mr F was at risk of financial harm. So I dont 
think it would be fair to say Co-op should have stopped the payment, and I think it acted 
reasonably in processing it.
Disputing the payment
Once it was aware Mr F was unhappy with the payment, wed expect Co-op to consider a 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and disputing the 
payment with a chargeback.
Section 75 allows customers who pay for goods and services using credit, to claim against 
the provider of the credit for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the provider of 
the goods or services.
But, in order for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be met. One of 
these is that there be a clear, unbroken chain between the provider of the credit, the 
customer and the provider of the goods or services. And here, the credit card the payment 
was made with is in Mr Fs name but the holiday booking was in the name of the other 
person he was travelling with. So the chain is broken and a Section 75 claim cant be made.
A chargeback is a process by which a bank can dispute a payment made by one of its 
customers to a merchant. But the dispute must be made for one of the specific reasons set 
out in the chargeback scheme rules, such as services not received or a duplicate payment. 
And wed only expect a bank to carry out a chargeback where there was a reasonable 
chance of it being successful.
Here, Co-op says it queried the payment with the hotel and it appears it was told the hotel 
had taken the payment for the hotel stay as it hadnt received the money from the travel 
company. And Mr F did stay at the hotel. So the payment was taken for a service that was 
actually provided. The other payments made for the holiday were also for different amounts 
and from different accounts, so theres no obvious duplicate payment either. So I dont think 
there was a reasonable chance of a chargeback being successful here and I think Co-op has 
acted reasonably in not carrying one out. And so I dont think there was anything further Co-
op could have done to dispute the payment.
I sympathise with the position Mr F has found himself in, as he does appear to have been 
overcharged for the holiday. And my decision isnt to say that I dont think he should have a 
valid claim against the travel company, the hotel or the travel protection schemes. But I can 
only look at whether Co-op has acted reasonably. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
think it has.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman