DRN-3961871
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd provided a poor level of service when he claimed for 
funds that had been deposited into his closed account.
What happened
Mr F contacted Monzo around October last year, after funds from a refund were sent to his 
closed account. Mr F complained to the bank shortly after this because he says he 
experienced delays, he had to verify his I.D multiple times and provide further information. 
Mr F also escalated his concerns by taking legal action, but this has since been 
discontinued. 
Monzo eventually sent the funds to Mr F and reimbursed him for the fee he paid to start legal 
proceedings.
In its response, Monzo agreed there were some delays and offered Mr F £20 compensation. 
Monzo pointed out that it had followed its process correctly. Remaining unhappy, Mr F asked 
this service to get involved.
Our adjudicator concluded that the bank had acted fairly and that he considered the 
compensation offered by Monzo as fair. Mr F doesnt agree, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Monzo has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
Monzo says it doesnt have an automatic way of identifying when funds are deposited into a 
closed account. So I wouldnt expect the back to have been proactive or be in a position to 
send the funds to Mr F immediately. 
This explains why, when Mr F first got in touch with Monzo, he was given a timescale of 2-4 
weeks for this issue to be resolved. I dont find this to be an unreasonable timescale. Its 
unlikely that Monzo wouldve been able to send the funds to him immediately, given it wasnt 
down to the bank where the funds were refunded to. It seems Mr F received the funds 
around 2 weeks after his first contact with Monzo, so Im satisfied that the bank took steps to 
send the funds to him within a reasonable time frame.
Mr F is unhappy that he had to provide further information and that he had to verify his I.D in 
the form of a selfie numerous times. Although its not within my remit to tell Monzo the 
processes it should apply as part of its banking services, I dont find that the bank treated 
Mr F unfairly. 
Its Monzos responsibility to ensure it takes adequate steps to protect its customers. The 
information it asked Mr F for allowed Monzo to verify that the account the funds would be 
sent to was held by him. Monzo also says the multiple selfies were requested because 
previous ones sent by Mr F were considered invalid after 24 hours. I acknowledge it 
wouldve added a layer of frustration for Mr F, having to carry out the same action each day 
he contacted the bank. But given Monzos requests were for security reasons, I cant fairly 
conclude that the bank did something wrong.
Mr F is also dissatisfied with the delays he says he experienced. I can see from the banks 
notes that hed contacted Monzo multiple times over a two-week period to request updates. 
Mr F also started legal proceedings to resolve this matter. Monzo acknowledges that it 
couldve responded to some of Mr Fs communications quicker and it offered him £20 
compensation because of this. In my opinion, this is a reasonable offer and I dont see any 
cause for a higher compensation figure.
I say this because as I pointed out, Monzo seems to have returned Mr Fs funds within a 
reasonable period. I know Mr F felt the need to regularly chase the bank for updates, but I 
havent seen anything that makes me think the bank unreasonably held up the return of his 
funds. Moreover, I cant see that Mr F suffered a loss  Monzo also reimbursed him the fee 
he paid to start legal action. I also havent seen anything that persuades me that Mr F 
experienced an unreasonable level of distress or inconvenience because he had to wait 
around two weeks to receive his funds  certainly, not to a degree that makes me think 
further compensation is appropriate here.
Given that Monzo returned Mr Fs funds to him within a reasonable time frame, reimbursed 
him for his costs and offered what I think is reasonable compensation  I wont be asking the 
bank to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman