DRN-3728977
The complaint
Mr M has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Alltrust Services Limited.  He says 
Alltrust was wrong to allow him to make the investment he made in his SIPP in 2009 which 
has caused him a loss.
What happened
Mr M had his own business.  In 2009 he consulted a firm of financial advisers.  Soon after he 
transferred some existing pensions to a SIPP with Alltrust and made an investment from the 
SIPP.  That investment was in the form of an assignment and licence back of certain 
intellectual property rights held by Mr Ms business.  Those intellectual property rights had 
been valued by an accountant and a formal assignment document prepared by a law firm. 
Under the arrangement the pension scheme in effect bought the intellectual property rights 
and then charged Mr Ms business a licence fee to use them providing a return on the 
money invested.  The capital value of the rights would also increase if the business grew.  
However Mr Ms business has not grown.  It got into difficulties and was dissolved/struck off 
the companies register in 2014.  As I understand it, Mr Ms pension investment in those 
intellectual property rights is now, effectively, worthless.
Solicitors acting for Mr M say the projections relating to Mr Ms business, on which the 
intellectual property rights were valued, were unrealistic.  They say Alltrust did not properly 
check the arrangement before allowing the investment to be made in the SIPP and that it did 
not properly recognise the hazards involved with this type of investment.  They say the 
investment is unsuitable for a retail customer whose SIPP is supposed to be used to provide 
a pension for retirement. 
Alltrust did not think it was at fault.  It said: 
Its role was to make sure investments were permitted investments for a SIPP. 
It did not give advice on the suitability of investments.
Mr M had an adviser at the time of the transfer of his pensions to Alltrust and the 
investment in the intellectual property rights.
The intellectual property rights were valued by a qualified accountant, and it relied on 
that valuation.
It ensured the transaction was carried out appropriately and the SIPP protected as 
far as possible.
Alltrust has also said Mr M was a director of his business and so he knew about the financial 
position of his business better than anyone else.  It also makes the point that Mr M has been 
aware of the failure of the intellectual property rights investment since 2014 and so his 
complaint has been made too late in any event.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  He made several points, including:
Although Mr M knew about a problem in 2014 there is no reason to say he was 
aware, or should reasonably have been aware, he had cause to complain about 
Alltrust at that time.  Or at any other time more than three years before he made his 
complaint to Alltrust in November 2021.  So, the complaint had not been made too 
late and could be considered.
SIPP operators are under obligations to conduct their business with skill, care and 
diligence; control their affairs responsibly; and treat their customers fairly.
Alltrust was not Mr Ms adviser.  The risks of the arrangement should have been 
explained to Mr M by his adviser taking into account the financial position of Mr Ms 
business. And as the owner of his business Mr M was well placed to understand its 
financial position.
Mr M wanted to raise capital for his business, and its more likely than not that he 
would have acted in the same way even if Alltrust had warned him about the risks.
Solicitors acting for Mr M say he does not agree with the investigator.  They have not 
explained why.  The matter has therefore been referred to me to decide.
Alltrust did not respond to the investigator.
What I think about jurisdiction
The investigator explained why he didnt think the complaint was made too late to be 
considered.  Alltrust hasnt disputed what he said.  I agree that Mr M needed to have reason 
to think Alltrust was in some way responsible for the problem with his pension before he 
would have cause to complain about it as the operator of his SIPP.  I also agree that there is 
nothing to indicate Mr M was aware or should reasonably have been aware that he had 
cause to complain about Alltrust more than three years before he made his complaint in 
November 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Intellectual property rights investments of this type are a permitted investment for a SIPP, 
and they do enable a business owner to support their business using their SIPP.  For this 
reason the property rights must be independently valued, and that valuation was carried out 
by an accountant in Mr Ms case.  The valuation took into account projections of the future 
performance of Mr Ms business.
Mr M was the director of his own business.  Mr M says the projections for future performance 
of the business were unrealistic.  And that Alltrust should have realised this and not allowed 
the investment, or at least warned him about the risks involved.  
At the time the company was still quite new, and the forecasts were optimistic.  This will 
have reflected Mr Ms hopes for his business.  The valuation was prepared by an 
accountant, and I cannot see that the projections were so unreasonably optimistic that 
Alltrust should have said that it disagreed with the accountant or thought his assessment 
could not be relied upon. 
I agree it was not reasonable to expect Alltrust to have simply refused to accept the 
valuation prepared by the accountant.  Alltrust could not have advised Mr M not to make the investment his adviser had apparently 
recommended.  Alltrust provides a non-advisory service only.  Bearing that in mind, it could 
still have given warnings about the risks involved with investing in intellectual property rights 
linked to a small and relatively new company.  However I also agree with the investigator 
that even if Alltrust had done so its more likely than not that Mr M would have gone ahead 
with the investment in any event.  He was apparently making the investment his adviser had 
recommended and he was investing in the business he had only recently started and wanted 
to grow and make a success.  It therefore seems unlikely that Mr M would have acted on any 
reasonable warnings Alltrust could have given.
My final decision
I do not therefore uphold Mr Ms complaint against Alltrust Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman