DRN-2821606
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a medical expenses 
and curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to set 
these out in detail. In summary though, Mr and Mrs D were travelling abroad in September 
2019. Unfortunately, they were involved in a distressing car accident and their family 
required hospital treatment. Mr D got in touch with AXAs medical assistance team to make a 
claim and to ask whether theyd be covered if they were to return home early. AXA advised 
Mr D that his family wouldnt be covered if they cut short their trip.
However, due to the distress the accident caused Mr and Mrs D and their family, they 
returned home early. They then began to receive medical bills from the hospital and 
ambulance service, despite AXAs assurances that they would be paid. These continued to 
be sent to Mr and Mrs D; AXA kept contacting Mrs D even though Mr D had asked it not to; 
and AXA repeatedly didnt follow-up actions itd promised to take. Mr and Mrs D were also 
unhappy that AXA had refused to look at a curtailment claim for them. They made a total of 
five complaints to AXA between March and October 2020 about its handling of the claim and 
the ongoing distress it had caused them.
AXA has recognised that it provided poor service to Mr and Mrs D. It also acknowledged that 
it had caused them a great deal of trouble and upset by the way it had handled their claim. It 
recognised that a curtailment claim shouldve been accepted at the outset and so it arranged 
for this to be settled. In total, in addition to the curtailment settlement, it paid Mr and Mrs 
£1000 compensation.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with AXAs compensation offer. While their complaint had 
originally been about AXAs failure to pay the outstanding medical bills, they felt that it had 
failed in its legal duty of care and had been negligent. Mr D told us that each time he had to 
discuss the incident with AXA, it brought back traumatic memories. And he also told us that 
AXAs handling of the claim had had a very negative impact on his family and marriage.
Our investigator thought the fair outcome to this complaint would be for AXA to pay Mr and 
Mrs D total compensation of £1300. At the point he considered the complaint, he didnt think 
there was enough evidence to demonstrate that AXA had shown Mr and Mrs D that it had 
settled the outstanding bills. He felt that given the claims history and the upset AXA also 
accepted itd caused Mr and Mrs D, it shouldve ensured this was actioned as a priority. As it 
hadnt done so, he thought AXA had caused Mr and Mrs D additional upset.
Neither AXA nor Mr and Mrs D accepted the investigators recommendation.
AXA said it accepted the service Mr and Mrs D had received had been poor, but it felt £1000 
was fair and reasonable compensation.
Mr and Mrs D responded in detail, so Ive summarised their points. They felt £1300 
compensation fell a long way short when considering the events from start to finish. They 
didnt think AXA had properly looked into or responded to their complaints. They thought 
AXA should be held accountable for its mistakes and it should pay appropriate 
compensation to recognise both its failures and the trauma itd caused Mr D by him 
repeatedly needing to go through the accident time and again. They felt the award should 
recognise the time Mr D had spent on the claim and the impact on their family. And they 
didnt think AXA had accepted liability for its handling of the claim or shown it had learned 
from its mistakes.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the fair outcome for this complaint is for AXA to pay Mr and Mrs 
D total compensation of £1300. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their submissions to our service, Ive very carefully considered everything 
theyve said and sent us. However, I wont be commenting on each and every point theyve 
raised and Im not obliged to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In this particular case, AXA already 
acknowledges it didnt meet these regulatory obligations in the way it handled Mr and Mrs 
Ds claim. It accepts that there have been process and communication failings and delays in 
the way its handled the claim. And it agrees that it shouldve accepted Mr and Mrs Ds 
curtailment claim at the start. Its referred to its own poor service and its already paid Mr and 
Mrs D what we would consider to be a substantial level of compensation to recognise its 
failings.
However, like the investigator, Im also persuaded that AXA must pay an additional £300 on 
top of the amount its already paid. There have been multiple failings while Mr and Mrs Ds 
claim has been in progress. Mr D has told us that at the point the curtailment claim was 
declined, he and his family were in hospital, with all of their belongings, as their car had had 
to be written-off. They were all understandably in shock and very upset and I think it 
shouldve been clear from the outset that following the accident, it was medically necessary 
for them to return to the UK. Potentially, while this wouldnt have lessened Mr and Mrs Ds 
familys distress, it couldve lessened their worry about what travel arrangements theyd 
need to make, because AXA couldve looked into this for them. And they wouldnt have had 
to worry about the financial implications of cutting short their trip. 
Its clear that despite assuring Mr D on multiple occasions that his medical bills had been 
paid, he continued to be chased up. I can see from AXAs records that Mr D had to contact it 
many times to try and put right this issue. This not only meant Mr D spent lots of 
unnecessary time dealing with something AXA could and should have progressed far earlier 
than it did, but Mr D has told us that reliving the accident each time caused him emotional 
trauma. Given the nature of the accident, I accept what Mr Ds told us about the impact of 
having to repeatedly discuss what happened 9with a number of different claim and complaint 
handlers) on his mental health.
AXA also continued to contact Mrs D, despite Mr D making it clear that it shouldnt do so. Given the sensitivity of the claim and the ongoing issues, I think AXA shouldve taken more 
care to ensure it followed Mr and Mrs Ds wishes. And I accept that its failure to do so 
caused Mr and Mrs D more unnecessary upset.
I can also see that AXA communicated poorly with Mr D at times, failing to answer queries in 
a timely way and not sending on proof of payment, despite being aware of how important 
this was to Mr D so he could get closure on the claim. I appreciate its now demonstrated to 
us that the final two invoices have been paid and told us proof of this has been sent to Mr D. 
But given the number of times it assured Mr D that bills had been paid and that remittances 
had been sent, I agree with our investigator that sending on such proof ought to have been 
AXAs priority in October 2020. This was yet another example of unnecessarily prolonging 
the claim to Mr and Mrs Ds detriment.
In essence then, considering the totality of AXAs failings and the clear upset this has 
caused Mr and Mrs D, Im satisfied that total compensation of £1300 is a fair award to 
recognise the poor service it provided.
I understand Mr and Mrs D consider this compensation to be an insult and Im sorry that my 
decision will likely disappoint them. Im conscious that they were involved in a traumatic 
accident and I know from what Mr D has told us, that the handling of the claim added to their 
overall distress. Im very sorry to read about the impact the accident had on them and their 
children. But I need to make it clear that our role isnt to punish or fine the businesses we 
cover. Im satisfied that AXA has accepted it made mistakes in the way it handled the claim 
and its clear from its own records that it took these failings seriously. And I also have to bear 
in mind that an accident will inevitably and understandably cause a great deal of distress to 
those who are involved in them. I cant fairly hold AXA responsible for that.  I do hope it 
reassures Mr and Mrs D to know their concerns have been heard independently and 
impartially and that both AXA and I acknowledge their claim was handled poorly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs D total compensation of £1300 (less any 
amount of compensation its already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman