DRN-3376781
Complaint
Miss L says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly applied a new overdraft 
pricing structure on her current account. She says that the charges are over expensive, 
unaffordable and detrimental to her financial health.
Background and my provisional decision of 3 March 2022
In August 2019, Nationwide wrote to all of its customers, including Miss L, to explain that the 
way it was charging for overdrafts was changing. There would no longer be a distinction 
between arranged and unarranged overdrafts and the APR that would now be applied to her 
overdraft would be 39.9%. Miss L complained to Nationwide saying this rate would make it 
more difficult for her to exit her overdraft. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. It said it considered a number of factors when 
deciding the APR to apply on overdrafts and, in any event, it didnt think Miss L had been 
charged unfairly. Miss L remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ls concerns. She thought that Nationwide ought to 
have realised that Miss Ls overdraft balance meant that it was unfair to immediately 
implement the new pricing structure on her account. Nationwide disagreed that it treated 
Miss L unfairly and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
On 3 March 2022, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Miss Ls 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by setting out that it wasnt in dispute Miss L got in contact with Nationwide to 
explain that shed have difficulty paying the increased charges on the new pricing structure, 
given her overdraft usage. And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its 
regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an 
understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move 
forward. 
As I understood it, Miss L asked Nationwide to make her overdraft interest free for a year in 
the same way that it was doing for new customers. Miss L felt that this would allow her to 
exit her overdraft. From what I can see, Miss Ls account was eventually switched from a 
FlexAccount to a FlexDirect account in February 2020. 
And as a result of this, Miss L did benefit from 0% interest overdraft offer for 12 months, 
which was being offered to new customers. It wasnt clear to me whether this was done as a 
forbearance measure or simply because Miss L requested this. But, in any event, Miss Ls 
statements showed that she didnt pay any overdraft interest during this period. Furthermore, 
Miss L was able to credit sufficient funds into her account to bring her account substantially 
into credit at the end of this period too and she was able to remain in credit since that period. 
So it seemed to me that Nationwide may well have correctly accepted that there might have 
been a problem in relation to the new charging structure bearing in mind Miss Ls overdraft 
usage. And it agreed a mutually acceptable plan which enabled Miss L to exit her overdraft 
without incurring a substantial amount of overdraft fees she might not have been able to pay. 
Indeed, it seemed to me for the most part Miss L didnt pay any fees at all as a result of the 
proposed solution.
As a result of this, I was minded to conclude that Nationwide took action to fairly, reasonably 
and proportionately apply the changes to the overdraft charging structure in a way that took 
account of Miss Ls particular circumstances.  And as this was the case, I was minded not to 
uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint.
However, even though I was minded to find that Nationwide didnt implement the changes to 
its charging structure in a way that was unfair to Miss L, as Miss L had also complained 
about overdraft charges in general, I, in any event, also looked at whether Nationwide acted 
fairly and reasonably when applying charges under the previous structure.
I started this this part of my provisional decision by making it clear that I hadnt considered 
whether the various amounts Nationwide charged over the years were fair and reasonable, 
or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. This was because how 
much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to 
get involved with.
That said, I went on to explain that Nationwide wont have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss L if it applied any of these interest, fees and charges to her account in 
circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware she 
was experiencing financial difficulty. So I went on to consider whether Nationwide charged 
Mr B even though it knew she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case prior to 2020. 
I looked through Miss Ls account statements. And I couldnt see that Nationwide ought to 
have been aware that Miss L might have been struggling during the period concerned.    
Miss L did use her overdraft. But there was no indication that she was hardcore borrowing 
and she even spent significant periods in credit. Equally, while I wasnt seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Miss Ls expenditure, nonetheless there were 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. So, at this stage, while I accepted that they may not have 
helped, I wasnt persuaded that the overdraft charges were responsible for any periods 
where Miss L was overdrawn.  
I accepted that neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) meant that Miss L 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there wasnt anything in this activity in itself which 
ought to have alerted Nationwide to potential financial difficulty and which meant that it 
would have been fair and reasonable not to have applied the charges here. I agreed that this 
position might well have changed post the changes to the charging structure. But Id already 
explained why the steps Nationwide took to mitigate the effects of this meant that it treated 
Miss L fairly and reasonably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I was minded to conclude that Nationwide 
didnt treat Miss L unfairly or unreasonably  either when applying the changes to the pricing 
structure or when applying charges before this. And this meant that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Nationwides response to my provisional decisionNationwide confirmed receiving my provisional decision, its acceptance of it and that it had 
nothing further to add.
Miss Ls response to my provisional decision
Miss L responded. In summary she said: 
she only managed to get out of her overdraft by taking out a cash advance on her 
credit card. 
she had to request the upgrade to the interest free overdraft even though 
Nationwides staff should have seen this was an option.
her spending is irrelevant. She does not live an extravagant lifestyle. Her children 
attend few extra-curricular activities and need clothes. While these may look frivolous 
on a statement, their mental health comes first and she can't keep them indoors 
doing nothing forever to save money.   
Nationwide led her getting into more debt and shes now received advice about 
making herself bankrupt to escape this cycle, which Nationwide added to with an 
overdraft and charges she couldnt escape.
if someone had helped her or given her financial advice then perhaps she wouldnt 
have credit card loans to try and pay off bills and consolidate debts.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss L for her further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything shes said and provided. Miss L has said she took a cash advance on her credit 
card to clear her overdraft. This may have been the case, as her statements only show that 
a credit was made to her account and not where the credit came from. But the credit was far 
in excess of Miss Ls overdrawn balance at the time and also almost twice the amount of her 
overdraft limit. So its difficult for me to say Nationwides actions pushed Miss L into 
borrowing on her credit card.
Furthermore, my provisional decision acknowledged it was possible Miss L was switched 
onto another product at her request, rather than as a proactive forbearance measure. But 
nonetheless Miss L benefitted from a year of being able to reduce what she owed interest, 
fees or charges being added. So I dont agree that Miss L wasnt provided with any help or 
support at all from Nationwide, even if what was provided may have come about as a result 
of a request from her, rather than any proactive intervention from Nationwide.  
Ive also seen that Miss L feels as though I may have suggested her financial position was 
as a result of spending frivolously or leading an extravagant lifestyle. However, this certainly 
wasnt my intention and I did try and emphasise that I wasnt seeking to make retrospective 
value judgements over Miss Ls expenditure. I can only apologise if she feels that my 
provisional decision conveyed such a sentiment.
That said, given Miss L has complained about charges, Im required to decide whether    
Miss Ls account conduct obviously suggested that she was in difficulty and necessitated 
Nationwide taking corrective action in relation to her overdraft bearing in mind the consequences  such as adverse credit information  related to it. I think the nature of    
Miss Ls overdraft transactions coupled with her account going into credit meant that the 
account was being run within the terms and conditions and, in the absence of her saying 
anything, there was no suggestion her overdraft was unsustainable  such that I would say 
Nationwide ought to have unilaterally stepped in prior to when Miss L asked for help in 2020. 
In these circumstances, I think that it would have been disproportionate for Nationwide to 
have taken such corrective action in relation to Miss Ls overdraft given the consequences. 
So I dont think that it was unreasonable for Nationwide to proceed with the limited amount of 
interest, fees and charges it did add to Miss Ls account. 
I also sympathise with the position Miss L now finds herself in and Im sorry to learn that 
shes contemplating making herself bankrupt. I also appreciate that a holistic review of    
Miss Ls finances and outstanding credit, as well as some financial guidance might have 
helped her situation had any such intervention taken place early enough. 
But I dont think that Nationwide was in a position to have carried out this kind of review 
without it being requested   especially as it would have required Miss Ls co-operation and 
information (such as the full extent of Miss Ls commitments to her other creditors) which 
Nationwide wouldnt necessarily have had. And even then the sort of guidance Miss L is 
referring to would likely have involved Nationwide advising on other lenders products. This 
was something it wasnt permitted to do. So while I sympathise with what Miss L has told us, 
I cant reasonably say that Nationwide failed to do something which it ought to have done.     
Overall and having carefully considered everything, including Miss Ls further points in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still not upholding Miss Ls complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Miss L  especially as it has taken some time for her to 
receive a final answer on her complaint. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision of 3 March 2022, Im not 
upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman