DRN-1819652
 
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is about what happened 
when she visited two branches to withdraw cash. In bringing her complaint Mrs S is 
represented by her son, Mr S. 
What happened
Mrs S visited a local Halifax branch on 3 October 2019 to withdraw some cash from her 
account. Mr S accompanied her and carried her bank card for safekeeping. The cashier 
thought Mr S was attempting to enter the card in the machine and said that Mrs S would 
have to complete the transaction herself. 
Mrs S visited another Halifax branch on 7 November 2019, again accompanied by Mr S. 
When she tried to make a withdrawal, the cashier told her she was unable to complete the 
transaction and went to get advice. A second member of staff told Mrs S an indicator had 
been placed on her account following her visit to the other branch in October 2019. 
A manager spoke to Mrs S and Mr S in a pod in the banking hall. She explained that a note 
had been added to Mrs Ss account records to say that Mr S had tried to withdraw cash at 
the counter using Mrs Ss card. 
Mrs S complained that she and Mr S had been distressed by what happened. Mrs S had her 
identity questioned and Mr S was upset at being accused of trying to use his mothers card, 
which hed never done. 
Halifax said their staff had been following the security procedures they have in place to 
protect their customers. But they acknowledged theyd provided a poor service to Mrs S and 
that inaccurate notes had been placed against her account. They offered £100 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought Halifaxs offer of £100 was fair. 
Mrs S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said he was upset at being accused of trying to use Mrs Ss card when they visited the 
branch in October 2019. He said he would carry his mothers bank card when they went into 
town together. But Mrs S put the card in the machine and entered her pin number, and he 
had never tried to do this. 
Halifax have said their cashier appears to have thought that Mr S was attempting to enter 
the card into the machine on Mrs Ss behalf. A note to that effect was added to Mrs Ss 
account details.I cant be sure what happened in the branch, but I have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs 
S have said. 
That doesnt mean it was wrong for the cashier to raise any concerns she had. Banks have 
an important responsibility to safeguard their customers accounts and their staff are trained 
to do so. Our service cant tell a bank what checks they should put in place to protect their 
customers or how they should conduct them.
But in this case, it appears that after Mrs S left the branch an inaccurate note was recorded 
on her account records. Halifax accept they made a mistake here and it caused delays for 
Mrs S when she tried to make a withdrawal the following month. I agree they should 
compensate Mrs S for the trouble and upset this mistake caused. 
Mrs S has also complained that the discussion with a manager on 7 November 2019 took 
place in a pod in the banking hall rather than in a private room. Halifax accept that the 
manager should have offered a more private setting for the discussion as it was about 
sensitive matters. I agree this caused further upset and Halifax should compensate Mrs S for 
that.
Its not the role of this service to punish businesses for any mistakes they make. Instead, 
where something has gone wrong, we look at the impact its had on the consumer and 
whether the business has put things right in a fair and reasonable way. 
In this case, Halifax recorded inaccurate information. I think their service to Mrs S fell short 
of what would be expected and caused unnecessary trouble and upset to both Mrs S and Mr 
S. Ive considered everything theyve said, and I can see this has been a distressing 
experience for them. But overall, and in the circumstances of this case, I think the 
compensation offered by Halifax is fair and reasonable.
I realise this wont be the decision Mrs S was hoping for, but I wont be asking Halifax to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Bank of Scotland plcs 
offer to pay Mrs S £100 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Matthew Young
Ombudsman