DRN-1791743
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should return the fees he paid for a 
packaged bank account following a product migration in January 2017.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
1. Barclays has accepted it mis-sold the original Additions Plus account in 2006 
following Mr Ws complaint that he didnt speak English at the time and didnt realise 
he could have chosen a fee free account.
2. There is no evidence that Mr W used any of the insurances or non-financial benefits 
that came with the packaged bank accounts before or after the product migration in 
2017.
3. While I accept its likely that Mr Ws English had probably improved by the time of the 
product migration in 2017, I think its more likely than not that it hadnt improved 
enough for him to properly understand the letter communication he received that 
outlined his options or he wouldnt have continued to pay for a wide range of benefits 
he appears to have had no interest in and wasnt using.
For these reasons my decision is to uphold Mr Ws complaint and require Barclays to put 
things right as follows.
Putting things right
  I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for his packaged bank account from 
January 2017 until it was closed.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr W has saved money because of a better rate on any lending or credit by having 
the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mr W saved, it may 
deduct these savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated the 
two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to Mr W how it has worked 
out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman