DRN-2856553
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by approving him 
for two overdrafts with a limit of £4,000 each without carrying out proper checks.  
What happened
Mr S held a bank account with Lloyds. On 2 February 2018 Mr S applied on-line for and was 
approved for an overdraft with a limit of £4,000. A further overdraft was approved on 24 
February again with a limit of £4,000. Mr S contacted Lloyds a few days later and informed it 
of a gambling addiction and other medical conditions he suffered from and his accounts 
were moved to collections.
While Mr S managed to pay off one of the overdrafts the other was passed to collections and 
in November 2020 and a repayment plan was agreed of £100 a month for six months.
Mr S complained to Lloyds that it lent to him irresponsibly without carrying out the proper 
checks. Lloyds said it carried out the correct checks and based on the results the overdrafts 
appeared to be affordable. While Mr S has said that he inflated his income on both overdraft 
applications, on review Lloyds looked over Mr Ss statements in the months leading up to the 
application and found that he had a income higher than he had reported  so thought it had 
acted fairly by approving the overdrafts.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and bought his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and following a review of Mr Ss bank statements 
thought that the income Mr S had declared was in the range he was receiving. But because 
Mr Ss had previously got into trouble with gambling on his account with Lloyds in 2016 and 
there were recent substantial gambling transactions showing on his bank statements  he 
didnt think its checks went far enough. If Lloyds had looked at how Mr S managed his 
account before he applied for the overdrafts it ought to have realised Mr S wouldnt have 
been able to sustainably repay the overdraft and it shouldnt have approved the application. 
To put things right our adjudicator recommended:
Refund interest and fees, along with 8% simple interest for account ending *2868 to 
reduce the outstanding balance on account ending *2463.
Refund interest and fees, along with 8% simple interest for account ending *2463 to 
reduce the outstanding balance.
write off the remaining balance on account *15441544454. His credit file should also 
reflect the balance has been written off.
If Mr S disagrees with the above, then allow for him to continue to make repayments 
towards the outstanding balance.
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators recommendations. But since the view was issued Mr S 
has now paid off his overdraft and doesnt want to accept this offer. Mr S would like to Lloyds 
to pay him back the sum of the overdraft and other borrowing he had with Lloyds to the sum 
of £12,000 and would like his credit history cleared. 
Mr S has asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, just to be clear this decision only deals with the overdraft lending by Lloyds in 2018. I 
hope Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service and Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the crux of the complaint  that the lending was irresponsible. Our rules allow me to do 
that. the. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation.
So where a business continues to allows a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a review of Mr Ss statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator 
that Lloyds checks didnt go far enough before they approved the lending. I think that if 
Lloyds had done proper checks it wouldve seen that it previously had to take action in 2016 
on Mr Ss overdraft when he notified it he had issues with gambling. This knowledge coupled 
with the fact Mr Ss statements show he was again gambling large amounts in 2017 and at 
the time the second overdraft was applied for, ought to have shown that it was likely the 
funds were going to be used for gambling and that Mr S was at a significant risk of being 
unable to repay what he owed. 
Lloyds has accepted this view and agreed to the recommendations listed above. But as Mr S 
has already paid off the debt all Lloyds is left to do is refund all the interest, fees and charges 
along with 8% simple interest from when the overdraft was approved. 
I understand Mr S would like to claim back the lending. But Mr S used and benefitted from 
his overdraft and he has shown that he was able to pay it back. So in the circumstances I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to give the money back.  
Mr S would also like Lloyds to clear his credit file and remove any negative information it 
holds on him. But Lloyds have a duty to report factually accurate information to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to. Indeed, it is this information that is used to ensure 
lending isnt irresponsible. So providing the information reported is factually accurate Lloyds 
is obligated to report it.So bearing all this in mind Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr S is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman