DRN-1314134
 
The complaint
Mr C complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to take a payment towards his 
loan when he changed current accounts. He's unhappy this has been recorded as a missed 
payment on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr C changed his current account from RBS to another bank on 1 May 2019. All direct 
debits should've been switched at the same time. This should've included the direct debit for 
Mr C's loan with RBS. However, RBS didn't claim the May payment for the personal loan he 
had with it. Mr C complained about this to RBS.
On 21 May 2019, RBS issued its final response on Mr C's complaint. RBS agreed it had 
made a mistake in not claiming the direct debit for Mr C's loan. It apologised for the mistake 
and offered Mr C £20 in gift vouchers as compensation. It explained in this letter that the 
payment was still due and Mr C should get in touch to make the payment.
Unhappy with the response, Mr C brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He agreed RBS had made a mistake. But he thought the £20 it 
had offered was fair and didn't recommend it do anything else. He thought RBS had been 
clear that Mr C needed to make the payment for May 2019 and as he hadn't, it was right to 
record this missed payment on his credit file.
Mr C didn't agree. He said RBS had told him his loan would be extended by a month and 
setting up a new direct debit from June 2019 was all he needed to do. He said he had never 
refused to make up the payment and RBS shouldn't have recorded a missed payment on his 
credit file. Mr C asked for his complaint to be escalated within our service. So it's been 
passed to me to consider. He's since made the missed payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the current account switch was made on 1 May, the loan direct debit payment should've 
been made from the new current account (held with another bank), not the RBS account. 
RBS has confirmed it didn't request this payment. So it isn't disputed that RBS made a 
mistake here. What I need to consider is the consequence of the mistake and whether 
RBS gave Mr C clear enough information about making up the loan payment.
Mr C says, following his complaint, that he was told by RBS the May payment wouldn't need 
to be made, that his direct debit would start again in June and that his loan would be 
extended by a month to reflect this. RBS says this isn't possible, so he wouldn't have been 
told this. In a situation where what has been said is in dispute, I need to make a decision on the balance of probability. That means, what I think most likely to have happened 
considering the information I do have.
Unfortunately we don't have copies of all the calls Mr C says he had with RBS. But we do 
have a copy of RBS' final response dated 21 May 2019. In this, it acknowledges its mistake, 
but I think it also makes clear that the payment for May 2019 is still due and Mr C needs to 
contact RBS to make this payment. We also have a copy of a call Mr C had with RBS 
collections department in early June 2019. During this call it's clear Mr C believes he doesn't 
need to make a payment as his complaint has been upheld. But RBS' call handler does 
confirm that whilst he will stop letters going to him, the monthly payment is 
outstanding.  Based on this, I don't have enough to say that RBS did lead Mr C to believe he 
didn't need to make his payment for May.
Had Mr C made the payment for May, as the final response told him he should, the payment 
wouldn't be showing on his credit file as late. But he didn't make this payment until very 
recently. RBS is obliged to accurately report conduct on accounts such as loans. As the 
payment wasn't made on time, and it made Mr C aware it was still due, I can't ask it to 
remove the late payment marker.
RBS clearly has made a mistake. And this has caused some upset and stress for Mr C. 
While I think RBS did tell him what he needed to do to make up the missed payment, I think 
the fact that he had to contact RBS to make it aware of the mistake, and follow this up with 
phone calls does warrant a payment of compensation. I don't think the offer of £20 of gift 
vouchers is enough. So I'm going to tell RBS to make a payment of £100 to Mr C to 
recognise its mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr C £100 compensation. I 
don't require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman