DRN-2722351
The complaint
Mr R complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly changed the way he is able to sell his
investments in his crowdfunding account. He also complains about a new transfer payment
introduced.
What happened
Mr R opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in May 2018.
Funding Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return
for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mr Rs complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a
way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by
way of a secondary market.
In July 2019 Mr R decided he needed to access his fund held in his account, so he put
his loan parts up for sale on the secondary market. He explained that, at the time, the
platforms secondary market operated in a way where loan parts for sale would be put in a
queue and sold on a first in first out basis.
Mr R raised a complaint with Funding Circle regarding changes it was introducing regarding
selling loan parts to other investors. He was unhappy that Funding Circle replaced its
queuing system with a selling tool whereby investors requesting to access their funds early
would join a pool and would be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. He added that
by the time the changes came into effect, he wouldve been only two to four weeks away
from selling all his loan parts. Mr R felt the changes would disadvantage those who had
already been queuing for a long period of time  bringing them from the front of the queue to
the back.
Mr R also raised concerns about a new transfer payment Funding Circle was introducing
in December 2019. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. Mr R said this wasnt fair as, at the time he put his loan parts for sale, no transfer
payment applied. So he felt investors with existing selling orders should be prioritised and
the 1.25% transfer payment should be waived.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120 
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment and new sales tool was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified that the transfer payment isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and 
instead is a payment made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans. So Mr R could access his funds 
whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if he switched off his lending facility and 
withdrew his monthly repayments on his loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mr Rs consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Mr R of the changes.
The terms and investor guide clarify that loan parts can be sold but that its subject to 
demand from other investors and the terms and conditions explain that there is no 
guarantee on the length of time this process may take.
The terms and conditions allow Funding Circle to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Mr R of the changes.
There was no guarantee that Mr R would have sold all his loan parts if the changes 
werent made.
Mr R had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if he wasnt happy 
with the changes.
Ultimately, Mr R was looking to sell his loan parts and the new transfer payment 
could act as an incentive for investors to buy his loan parts sooner.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary, he said:
The terms allowed him to reject the updated terms by closing his account and selling 
his loan-parts immediately  but Funding Circles response to his request to do this 
suggested hed have to accept the updated terms or wouldnt be able to exercise this 
right.
He disagreed that Funding Circle had no control over the length of time necessary to 
sell loan-parts on the secondary market as new investors on the platform were 
offered new loan parts rather than loan parts from the secondary market.
Whilst he was waiting to sell his loan parts, the amount of defaulted loans in his 
portfolio had increased, resulting in financial loss.
He disagreed that he had the ability to take his loan parts back.
He also said reports had shown his loan parts wouldve sold within the next one to 
two months had the selling tool not been changed.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. In it I said:
Funding Circle sent Mr R an email in October 2019 explaining it would be introducing the
new selling tool and transfer payment which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email
also explained that Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new investor terms explained:10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous investor terms:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we
no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. Its not my role to determine if
Funding Circle were legally able to include a clause like this in its investor terms. That would
be something for a Court to decide. However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference
contained in section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond
the strict terms and conditions to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the complaint.
I understand that Mr R believes the transfer payment to be a fee, which is to his detriment
when selling his loan parts on the secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer
payment is a fee. Instead Id consider it to be a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which
are sold on the secondary market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it doesnt
receive any money from the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who
purchase the individual loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to
these buyers.
In June 2019 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), published its policy
statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how
often crowdfunding platforms should re-price loans. It implemented this way of introducing
new rules into COBS which came into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Rs case, Funding Circle is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan
parts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has aregulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Rs loan parts are fair and
appropriate on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold
by way of the secondary market. So in order to determine whether this is fair and
appropriate, its important to understand what considerations Funding Circle made before
introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding it considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both Mr Rs complaint points and Funding
Circles own admissions, that sales queues on the secondary market were increasing and it
was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts in this way. And
the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, are clearly intended
to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Mr R, must wait in order
to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mr Rs loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Mr R, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from him. It follows
that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then
Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this.
I also understand Mr R has raised concerns about his freedom to exit his contract with
Funding Circle having not accepted the changes. The original investor terms he agreed to
explained:
16.3 Subject to clause 17.2, if you do not agree with any changes that we make to
these Investor Terms and Conditions you are able to close your Investor Account at
any time by contacting usBy continuing to access and use the Funding Circle
Platform after any changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions, you accept and
agree to be bound by the updated Investor Terms and Conditions.
16.4 If you notify us you wish to close your Investor Account but have Loan Parts
outstanding, you authorise us to immediately transfer these to other Investors by
selling them...
Its clear from these that Mr R was able to exit the contract if he didnt agree with the
changes. But as he had outstanding loan parts, he had to first sell these to other investors inorder to exit. Whilst I appreciate that, in doing so, the transfer payment would apply, I dont
think this prevents him from being able to exit. And Ive already explained why introducing
the transfer payment was fair and reasonable. Ultimately, Mr R had agreed to lend money to
borrowers for a set term and did so with the understanding that, if he was unable to sell on
the secondary market, hed likely have to wait until the loans were fully repaid in order to
access all of his investment. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Funding Circle to allow
Mr R to exit without first selling his loan parts to other investors.
Its also important to consider Mr R doesnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained, the
transfer payment is only triggered if Mr R decides to exit from his investment before the
maturity date of the loans. So he is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Rs concerns around changing the process for selling after hed
already been in the queue for some time, the previous terms and conditions didnt detail how
the secondary market would work. These explained that there was no guarantee if or when
loan parts would sell and that it would be able to remove any unsold loan parts within 120
days after they had been put up for sale:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so. If a transfer has not been successful
within 120 days after you make your request, we will delist the Loan Parts from the
secondary market of the Funding Circle Platform. We will notify you if the transfer is
not successful and you will continue to be the Investor in respect of the unsold Loan
Parts."
Funding Circle has explained that, as a matter of practice, it chose not to delist loan parts
after the 120-day period. Instead, it allowed unsold loan parts to remain in a transfer queue
temporarily to give investors the best chance of being able to access their funds. This was all
whilst Funding Circle considered and designed its new sale process. However, to appease
investor concern about the lengthening secondary market queue, Funding Circle says it
considered a number of options and decided to implement a selling tool whereby investors
requesting to access their funds early will join a pool and will be able to transfer loan parts
on a rolling basis. Each transfer request will last for 120 days after which investors will
receive an email confirming the amounts recouped via transfers and repayments in that
period.
I sympathise with Mr Rs situation, and I agree it would be frustrating having to restart the
sales process, especially considering reports show he would likely have been able to sell his
loan parts in a month or so. However, taking into account all of the above, Im not persuaded
the changes were unfair. Its clear Funding Circle were able to delist all loan parts that had
not reached the top of the sale queue within 120 days under the previous terms and
conditions Mr R agreed to when taking out his account. It chose not to whilst it considered
ways in which it could combat the growing sales queue and did so with investors best
interests in mind. It has now decided to reintroduce the 120-day timeframe by way of the
new selling tool process, which I think is fair and in-line with the terms and conditions Mr R
agreed to.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mr Rs loan parts on the
secondary market. It appropriately considered the impact this would have on Mr R before
implementing the transfer payment and new selling tool. Im also satisfied Funding Circle
gave Mr R reasonable notice, as well as the option to keep his investments without incurring
the transfer payment.Responses to my provisional decision
Funding Circle didnt provide a response to my provisional decision, but Mr R did. He said 
that, whilst he appreciated the thorough assessment of his complaint, he still disagreed that 
Funding Circle honoured his right to reject the updated terms without forcing him to accept 
them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs response is wholly regarding his concerns around his ability to reject the changes. 
However, I previously covered this in my provisional decision when considering his freedom 
to exit. I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional decision  they are set 
out above and I dont consider the information Mr R has provided in response to that
provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said. 
As there is no new information or evidence that has been submitted or come to light, theres 
no reason for me to change the findings I previously set out.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint 
against Funding Circle Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman