DRN-2353842
The complaint
Mr N complains that he had been unable to access his trading account held with J.P.
Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited.
What happened
Mr N says that for some time he has been requesting access to his account and has been
told that he would be sent a link to give him access. However, this has repeatedly not been
sent and hes had to request it again.
He says he was also told that as he couldnt access his account on-line, he couldnt deal 
over the phone and would instead have to write to J.P. Morgan. But he didnt want to do this 
as he was concerned about the price of his shares falling before any sale was actioned.
J.P. Morgan acknowledged that Mr N received poor service and accepted it had made errors
in not granting him online access and in delaying sending him forms. It offered Mr N a total
of £175 in compensation for the errors, but he felt this was insufficient.
Mr N referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator felt J.P. Morgans offer was
fair. He said, in brief;
Mr N had wanted to transfer his investment account to an ISA, but this was 
something that had to be done using a form  it couldnt be done on-line or by phone.
J.P. Morgan had delayed sending the forms, hence in part the compensation, but it
hadnt acted incorrectly in saying that the transaction couldnt be done online.
J.P. Morgan had no records of Mr N trying to trade by phone.
There had been a compliance restriction place on the account at one point
preventing trading while a source of wealth form was obtained from Mr N, but the
restriction had been lifted as soon as the form was received.
J.P. Morgan explained that certain domain names did create problems within its
systems, but it had apologised for this and overall, the £175 was fair.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators view. He highlighted that the issues with his account
had been ongoing for some years and supplied several emails between him and J.P. 
Morgan to support this.
However, the investigator was not persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter was
referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ns complaint. In it I confirmed that I was only 
considering issues that had occurred since June 2018. I went on to say:
In respect of those issues, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for
broadly the same reasons.
There have clearly been ongoing problems with online access to Mr Ns account and hes
experienced difficulties in doing some things he wanted to do, such as transfer the account
to an ISA.
But the problems have not always been down to errors made by J.P. Morgan. Sometimes,
such as with the ISA transfer or when the compliance restriction was placed on the account,
these are just part of how the account operates and while they made have been frustrating,
they are not indicative of J.P. Morgan doing anything wrong.
I do understand that the online access issues with Mr Ns account will have been very
frustrating for him. But J.P. Morgan does appear to have made reasonable attempts to sort
them out. And at all times it appears he had the option of phone trading available to him -
although I appreciate why this may not have been his preferred option.
Overall, I consider that the offer made by J.P. Morgan of £175 in compensation for the
trouble and upset he will have been caused by the online access issues and delay in
sending transfer forms is fair in all the circumstances.
J.P. Morgan confirmed it had nothing further to add in response. 
Mr N didnt provide any further comments, other than to question the £175 compensation, as 
he felt hed only received £150. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as there have been no further comments made by either party in respect of 
the merits of the complaint, I remain of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. 
I note Mr Ns comments about the offer made by J.P. Morgan. As I understand it, he was 
sent a cheque for £75 in June 2019 and £100 in August 2019, which together make up the 
£175 offer detailed in my provisional decision. 
J.P. Morgan has said that in May 2020 Mr N requested replacements for the £100 cheque 
and a £50 cheque issued to him some years ago. It would seem most likely that it was the 
receipt of these two replacement cheques that has led him to thinking hed received £150 
rather than £175.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint as I consider 
the offer of £175 already made by J.P. Morgan Trustee Administration Services Limited to be 
fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman