DRN-4442015
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Wakam Insurance Limiteds (Wakams) application of an 
additional excess and repair fee to a claim he made under his commercial motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr A reported a claim for damage to his commercial vehicle. Wakam accepted the claim, but 
told Mr A hed have to pay the policy excess of £350, plus an additional £527.91. 
Wakam said this was in line with the terms of the policy because Mr A had an additional 
excess to pay when using a non-approved repairer and because their engineers didnt agree 
that Mr As repair quote, from the non-approved repairer  was reasonable. 
Our investigator requested Wakams file on Mr As complaint, including any evidence it relied 
on to determine Mr As quote was inadequate. Despite several requests, no information was 
provided.
In the absence of Wakams evidence, our investigator said Wakam could only require Mr A 
to pay the compulsory excess of £350 and the additional excess of £500 for using a non-
approved repairer, as these were in line with the policy terms. But he didnt agree that 
Wakam could make any additional charge because there was no evidence to support its 
position that Mr As quote was unreasonable.
Mr A responded with an email referring to an attachment, but nothing was attached. And 
despite two further emails from our investigator highlighting this and inviting a response to 
his opinion, no further correspondence or evidence was received.
Wakam also didnt provide a response. So, as neither side provided their acceptance, or any 
additional comments or evidence in response to our investigators opinion, this complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
The policy excess is the part of a claim which the policyholder is required to pay 
under the terms of the policy. This is standard across the insurance industry and isnt 
something I would consider to be unfair.
Mr As policy literature makes it clear that the excess fee hes required to pay for any 
claim, regardless of fault, is £350, plus an additional £500 excess if he chooses to 
use a non-approved repairer. So, I think its fair for Wakam to require Mr A to pay a 
total excess of £850 in these circumstances.
Wakam has also sought to charge an additional amount on the basis that its engineer 
said that some of the repairs quoted for by Mr As repairer were unreasonable. But 
despite information (and or responses to our investigators findings) being requested 
on 5 July 2023, 1 August 2023, 15 September 2023, 25 September 2023, 
3 October 2023 and 7 November 2023, our service has not been provided with any 
evidence to support Wakams position here.
In the absence of evidence to support Wakams position, such as a copy of the 
engineer report, I dont think it is fair or reasonable for it to make any further charge 
to Mr A. So, after Mr A pays (or there is a deduction of) the £850 excess, Wakam 
must cover the full remaining amount of the repair costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint.
Wakam Insurance Limited must pay the full repair costs, less the combined £850 excess.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman