DRN-4117417
The complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc acted unfairly when it refused to follow her payment 
instructions.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs R was a long standing customer of Santander. Mrs R says that she regularly sends 
money to her grandsons account to help with his living expenses. Shes explained that her 
grandson has health conditions and relies on her support.
On 5 September 2022, Mrs R tried to send a faster payment to her grandsons account. But 
when Mrs R checked if the payment had been made, she found that Santander had stopped 
the payment. Mrs R contacted Santander and was told that the payment had been referred 
for further checks and following this that bank had made decision not to send the payment. 
But declined to explain further.
Mrs R complained. She said she regularly makes the same payment to her grandson and 
couldnt understand why the payment wasnt completed. Santander sent Mrs R a final 
response letter but didnt uphold her complaint. Santander reiterated that the payment had 
been correctly declined after it had been flagged by its fraud detection system and then sent 
for further banking checks.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into it. The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint and said that 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it declined to send Mrs Rs payment. Mrs R 
disagreed. She said shed been making the payments regularly and wants Santander to 
explain why it wasnt happy to send the money to her grandsons account. She explained 
that shed been very upset by the banks actions as her grandson has mental health issues 
and relies on her for financial support. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Santander has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This 
means I havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mrs R, but Id like to reassure her that 
I have considered everything.
I understand why Mrs R is upset about the way it handled her payment instruction   she has 
explained that the payment she wanted to make was very important and that her grandson 
relied on her for help because of his health conditions. She also said that she regularly made 
the same payment without any problems. So, she cant see any reason why Santander 
wouldnt allow the payment she wanted to make as it had done so many times previously. 
Ive looked at Santanders account terms and conditions. They set out when Santander can 
delay or refuse to act on a payment instruction. The terms state that Santander will always 
follow an instruction unless one of a number of reasons apply and that they have a right to 
decline a faster payment instruction if they deem it necessary to conduct further checks. The 
terms also say customers can contact Santander for an explanation as to why a payment 
was declined. But also state that Santander wont disclose the reason if theres a legal or 
security concern that prevents it from doing so. 
The payment Mrs R wanted to make and was flagged by Santanders fraud detection system 
for further checks. Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Santander 
has provided about the payment and its checks, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Santander to have had concerns about the payment. As a result of those checks Santander 
declined Mrs Rs payment instruction. Based on the evidence, I dont think I can reasonably 
conclude Santander were at fault for doing so. And Im satisfied that they did so in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mrs Rs account. 
Mrs R has said that she made similar payment s to her grandson without any problems. But 
the fact that none of her previous transactions hadnt been picked up by Santanders security 
systems doesnt mean it was wrong to highlight the September 2022 payment. Its for 
Santander to decide what factors their system should look at when reviewing transactions. 
And Ive not seen anything to suggest it was used unfairly or incorrectly here. So, I cant say 
Santander did anything wrong or treated Mrs R unfairly when it declined to process her 
payment instruction in September 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman