DRN-4330760
The complaint
Mr W complains Tesco Underwriting Limited hasnt offered a fair value for his car following it 
being written off after an accident.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr W insured his car with Tesco under a motor insurance policy. 
In late June 2023, Mr Ws car was involved in an accident and subsequently written off by 
Tesco. It then offered Mr W £3,388 to settle the claim, less deductibles such as the excess. 
Mr W wasnt happy, so he complained about the valuation. Tesco said the offer was based 
on an average of the two highest motor trade valuation guides, so didnt change its decision.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. He said he cant 
replace his vehicle like for like with the amount Tesco has offered which is in breach of FCA 
rules. He says, if he accepts the offer from Tesco, hell need to add money to replace his car 
leaving him in financial difficulty.
An Investigator at this service looked into matters. It was his view, having reviewed matters, 
Tesco had come to a fair market value. So, he didnt ask Tesco to do anything to put things 
right.
Mr W didnt agree with the Investigators view, so, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt my role to give an exact value of Mr Ws car. Instead, my role is to decide whether 
Tesco has:
1. Correctly applied the policy terms and conditions when reaching the figure for the 
market value of Mr Ws car; and 
2. Done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think it has. 
Where a car has been written off, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mr Ws policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Tesco referred to three trade guides to calculate the market value. The guides gave different 
figures, which isnt unusual. It then made an offer to Mr W of £3,388 which was the average 
of the two highest guides (£3,380 and £3,395).
We use the same trade guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing 
second-hand vehicles. In the absence of other evidence, we generally find these guides to 
be persuasive evidence of market value. And considering several guides allows us to take 
into account the different methods used by each guide to ensure a fair market value is 
reached.
I can see the motor trade guides used by Tesco were for cars of the same make, model, age 
and mileage as Mr Ws at the date of loss. The valuations obtained were £3,357, £3,380 and 
£3,395. And the Investigator verified these figures. 
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied the average of the top two valuations - which 
were close in value to each other - is more likely to be a fair reflection of market value at the 
time directly before the loss. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied Tesco has acted within the terms and conditions of the 
policy in reaching the value for Mr Ws car of £3,388. And that its done so acting fairly and 
reasonably.
I note Mr W has referred to the principles under the Consumer Duty introduced by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. But the Duty isnt relevant in this matter as it doesnt apply to 
acts or omissions that occurred before 31 July 2023.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman