DRN-2548253
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt provide written 
confirmation that a transaction she had requested had been completed.
What happened
Miss S wrote to Virgin to request a faster payment transfer on 12 May 2019. Within the letter 
she asked Virgin to provide confirmation in writing that her instructions had been actioned. 
Virgin received the instruction on 14 May 2019 and transferred the money on                         
15 May 2019. But it didnt confirm the transaction had been completed in line with Miss S 
request. So, Miss S complained to Virgin. 
Virgin accepted that it had failed to provide the written confirmation Miss S had requested. 
And it acknowledged that its service  on this occasion, wasnt up to standard. It apologised 
to Miss S and offered her £25 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
 
Unhappy with Virgins response, Miss S referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. But, ultimately, he thought Virgins offer of compensation was fair 
in the all the circumstances of the complaint and he didnt ask Virgin to do anything more. 
Miss S didnt accept this outcome as she feels more compensation is due. So, the complaint 
has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know      
Miss S will be disappointed with my decision as I see how strongly she feels about the 
matter, so Ill explain why.
Virgin has accepted that it didnt provide written confirmation of Miss S transfer request. So, 
I dont need to make a finding on this. What I do need to consider is whether Virgins offer of 
compensation - £25 to recognise the inconvenience caused, is fair or if it should do more.
Miss S instruction was received by Virgin on 14 May 2019 and the transaction was 
completed on 15 May 2019. I think this was a reasonable timeframe for the transaction to be 
completed. And I dont think Miss S made a financial loss as a result of her instructions not 
being acknowledged. 
I appreciate that Miss S wanted written confirmation of her instructions being completed. And 
when this wasnt received, she had to follow it up. I can see she wrote to Virgin on                                   
14 June 2019 and Virgin responded on 21 June 2019 to confirm the transaction had been 
completed. I think is reasonable timeframe for the response from when Virgin became aware 
of the problem. 
So overall, I dont think Miss S was materially inconvenienced to the extent that a 
compensation payment of more than £25 is warranted. I think £25 and Virgins apology 
adequately compensates Miss S given all the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss S has suggested that this is not the first time this has happened, and she says 
she has complained about this before  although she has not provided any documentary 
evidence to support this. Virgin has said it has no record of any previous complaints about 
not confirming Miss S instructions. So, I dont think Ive seen enough to be sure that this 
particular problem has occurred before. But, in any event, had Miss S complained about a 
similar matter previously, Virgin would have dealt with that separately and not as part of this 
complaint  which has been considered on its own individual merits.
I understand that Miss S has concerns that when issuing its final response Virgin asked her 
to accept the offer in full and final settlement. Miss S feels that this affects her rights to take 
the matter further. But, like our investigator, I think Virgin made it clear in its correspondence 
that Miss S could accept the offer or refer the matter to this service. I also think this is normal 
business practice when dealing with complaints. So, I dont think Virgin did anything wrong 
here.  
In summary, I accept that Virgin didnt confirm in writing that Miss S instructions had been 
carried out. But I dont think it did anything significantly wrong to cause Miss S any financial 
loss or material distress and inconvenience to the extent that further compensation is due. I 
consider the compensation offer of £25 to be fair. So, I wont be asking Virgin to do anything 
more.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I consider the compensation offered by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to be fair. So, I dont uphold this complaint
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Miss S £25 compensation if it has 
not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman