DRN-4243156
The complaint
Ms Z complains that Skrill Limited wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In early 2021, Ms Z was looking to invest. She spoke to an individual on a chat room app 
who she believed to be the vice-president of a big investment firm based abroad. As the app 
is audio-based, she says she checked his voice against his other social media profiles and 
found that it matched. 
The individual guided Ms Z to start investing in cryptocurrency through a particular platform. 
The name and website changed several times, which Ms Z was told was due to 
improvements and updates as the customer base increased. She started with smaller 
investments and, when these performed well, invested more to get better returns. 
Ms Z would move funds from her bank accounts to cryptocurrency wallets she had set up, to 
purchase cryptocurrency to send on to the platform. Some funds were also transferred to 
individuals, but again it seems this was done to purchase cryptocurrency to fund the trading.
After a year or so of trading, Ms Z set up an account with Skrill. This was tied to one of her 
existing cryptocurrency wallets, so she would use it to load funds there to be transferred on 
to the platform.
The investigator who looked into this complaint has shared a list of the relevant transactions 
with both parties, and Ms Zs representative has confirmed this to be correct. From her Skrill 
account, she sent around £225,000 to her cryptocurrency platform and received around 
£56,000 back  leaving her with a loss of almost £170,000. 
Unfortunately, although the investment firm was real, it seems the individual who claimed to 
be their vice president was a fraudster. Ms Zs funds werent actually being invested. She 
had been able to make some withdrawals initially. But when she attempted to make a 
significant withdrawal (for £250,000), she was asked for a 20% withdrawal fee and her 
account was frozen. She then realised it was a scam. 
Supported by a professional representative, Ms Z complained to Skrill that it had failed to 
protect her. She said the payments she made were highly suspicious, yet it didnt question 
her about them. And if it had done so, the fraud would have been prevented. 
Skrill didnt agree with Ms Zs complaint. It said the funds were loaded to her own 
cryptocurrency account. And she then sent the cryptocurrency she legitimately bought 
through that wallet to the scammer. In the circumstances, it said it wasnt liable for her loss. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms Z referred her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into it, but didnt uphold it. He thought there was a case to be made for expecting 
Skrill to have questioned Ms Z about her first payment, given the size. But he wasnt 
persuaded that would have uncovered, and prevented, the scam. 
This was mainly due to the fact Ms Z wasnt honest when questioned by her bank about 
various scam payments. And because there wasnt any public information from the time 
suggesting the individual or platform(s) involved were fraudulent. The investigator therefore 
wasnt persuaded that Ms Z would have been upfront with Skrill about the circumstances of 
the payment. Nor did he think a general warning would have had much impact. 
Ms Z has appealed the investigators outcome. Her representative says she hadnt been 
coached on what to say if questioned by Skrill, so disputes that she would have been 
dishonest. It also says the cover stories she told the bank wouldnt have made sense given 
the nature of these payments. So Skrill should have identified the risk and warned her. If it 
had done so, it says she would have spoken to her son  who would have realised she was 
being scammed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Skrill is expected to execute authorised 
payment instructions without undue delay. It is agreed that Ms Z authorised these disputed 
transactions. She transferred the funds from Skrill to her own cryptocurrency account, before 
subsequently transferring them on to the scammers. So the starting position is that she, 
rather than Skrill, is liable for the loss resulting from these payments.
However, there are circumstances when it might be appropriate for Skrill, as an electronic 
money institute (EMI), to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before 
processing a payment. Such as when the payment is significantly unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared to the normal use of the account. 
As this was a new account, the payments didnt look uncharacteristic  as Skrill didnt have 
prior knowledge of how Ms Z normally transacted. Im also conscious that the particular type 
of account she had opened with Skrill was specifically intended for making payments to the 
legitimate cryptocurrency provider who Ms Z already held an account with. So in that sense, 
the account activity was in line with what Skrill would have been expecting.
That said, I do agree with our investigator that the payments were considerably large. The 
first payment sent to the cryptocurrency wallet was around £36,000. I think the size of the 
payment arguably ought to have prompted some further checks by Skrill, to ensure it was 
meeting its requirements including monitoring for signs of fraud.  
I understand Skrill didnt place any blocks on the account or otherwise intervene with the 
payments. It simply processed them in line with the authorised payments instructions it 
received. But the fact it didnt perform further checks, such as questioning Ms Z about what 
she was doing, isnt by itself sufficient to support that it should refund her. I need to consider 
whether this had a material impact on her loss.Ive considered this point carefully. Im mindful Ms Z has lost out here at the hands of a cruel 
and sophisticated scam. And she was sending large amounts via her Skrill account. But 
overall, Im not persuaded appropriate intervention by Skrill was likely to have prevented 
further fraudulent losses.
Im aware, and consider it relevant, that Ms Zs bank intervened on several occasions when 
she was making payments intended to be loaded to the scam platform. And she repeatedly 
did not disclose the real reason for the payments. On several occasions, she gave a cover 
story indicating that the payments were being used to buy furniture and/or were related to 
renovations. 
I appreciate that cover story would not have made sense if given in relation to these 
payments; Skrill would have known they were for cryptocurrency. But its still significant that, 
when questioned, Ms Z wasnt honest about how the money was being used. I think that 
suggests she wasnt likely to have been honest to Skrill either, even if she wouldnt have 
used the exact same cover story. 
Although Ms Zs representative says she wasnt given a cover story for the Skrill payments, 
she could still have contacted the scammer for advice on what to say if it had questioned 
her. Im minded to think thats what she would have done, given the records she has shown 
us of her contact with the scammer. As these show she asked them about what to say if her 
bank questioned her. 
I also consider it relevant that, although Ms Zs initial cover story to her bank was mainly 
relating to her buying furniture, she did eventually admit the money was being used for 
investing. But that was only after intervention in branch. As Skrill isnt a bank and doesnt 
have branches, it didnt have the same opportunity to speak to Ms Z face-to-face, away from 
any contact with the scammer to guide her on what to say, to uncover the truth.
Furthermore, even when it came to light that some payments were for investing, Ms Z told 
her bank she had been mistaken before as it was her husband making the payments. And 
while she had thought they were all to buy furniture, some were actually for investing. She 
said her husband was very experienced and had been investing for years. She confirmed to 
the bank that she was being honest with them about this explanation and hadnt been told 
how to answer its questions, nor had she been directed to mislead it in any way. 
In fact, the records Ive seen show Ms Z had been guided by the scammer on what to tell the 
bank. They had directed her to mislead them about the payments. She wasnt upfront about 
this with her bank, so I dont think she would have told Skrill either. And that would have 
affected Skrills ability to accurately assess the fraud risk, and to take further action as 
appropriate.
There was also an occasion earlier on when Ms Z went to her branch about a (relatively 
smaller) payment that went directly to a cryptocurrency account. On that occasion, Ms Z 
confirmed she hadnt been coerced, had done adequate research and hadnt been 
convinced to make the payment. This gives some insight into what she might have told Skrill 
if it had questioned her. 
Overall, by the time of these payments, I think Ms Z was strongly under the spell of the 
scam. It had been ongoing for a year and she had paid in a substantial amount. Her previous 
interactions when making payments suggest she wouldnt have been upfront about what she 
was doing, which would have hampered Skrills ability to identify, and protect her from, the 
fraud risk. All of this makes me think its unlikely appropriate intervention by Skrill would have 
stopped her from making these payments.As Ms Zs representative has pointed out, Skrill was (or ought to have been) familiar with the 
common indications of cryptocurrency scams. But its not clear it would have been given 
cause to issue a scam warning as its not clear she would have divulged that she was 
planning to move the funds on from the legitimate merchant she was paying. Nor am I 
persuaded that a tailored warning about cryptocurrency scams would have struck Ms Z as 
particularly concerning by this point. 
The scam didnt meet some of the more common features, such as use of remote access 
software. While she had come across the opportunity via social media, she had taken further 
steps to corroborate the individual  such as comparing with other social media profiles 
dating back over eight years. 
Having looked up the names and websites Ms Z says she was given, I have found there 
wasnt publicly available information at the time to suggest they might be a scam. While her 
representative has pointed out that the companies werent regulated, as it will know, that 
isnt a requirement for cryptocurrency. So that in itself was unlikely to have caused Ms Z  or 
Skrill, if mentioned  concern.
Im mindful that, while using the Skrill account to make these payments, Ms Z also was able 
to receive over £56,000 back from the platform she paid directly  as well as having received 
prior credits into her bank accounts. She has confirmed that she was, on occasion, able to 
make withdrawals from the scam. 
While its not uncommon to see scammers allow small withdrawals to persuade customers of 
their legitimacy and therefore induce them to invest more, the amount she received back 
here is more substantial. Although I appreciate it was much less than the total she paid into 
the scam overall, it was still a lot more than you typically see being withdrawn. I think that 
would have offered further reassurance about the legitimacy of the investment. 
Ms Zs representative says that, if Skrill had issued a warning, she would have checked with 
her son, and he would have realised it was a scam. But I consider that too speculative to be 
a sound basis for me upholding this complaint. Particularly because, as Ive explained, I 
dont think a warning would have made Ms Z particularly concerned about the legitimacy of 
what she believed was a long-running and profitable investment. 
The funds Ms Z paid from her Skrill account were loaded to her own cryptocurrency wallet. 
At that point they were still in her control; it was only after she loaded the funds onto the 
alleged investment platform that it was actually lost to her. Given the payment steps 
involved, Skrill wasnt able to help Ms Z recover the funds once she reported the scam. As 
the money had already been transferred on.
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Ms Z, who has lost out to a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. However, Im not persuaded any errors by Skrill had a material impact 
on her loss. So I dont consider it fair to direct it to refund her or otherwise compensate her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman