DRN-1318461
The complaint
Ms D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ds vehicle was involved in an incident with a third partys. 
Through her mother Ms D complained that Admiral accepted the third partys claim and 
reduced her No Claims Bonus (NCB) to zero. She also complained that Admiral mishandled 
telephone calls.
Admiral sent a final response dated 21 August 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint, save that 
it sent Ms Ds mother compensation of £35.00 for some of the telephone calls. Unhappy with 
that, Ms D brought her complaint to us in October 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that, 
when considering the third party's claim, Admiral had acted in a way that was fair. She also 
thought that Admiral had fairly compensated Ms D for the calls where she had been unhappy 
with the tone of the staff that she dealt with.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The third party only had her mobile number and first name. He never contacted her. 
So he couldnt claim, and he wasnt going to claim until Admiral contacted him.
Admiral didnt act in her best interest and didnt investigate properly.
She told them not to take any further action until she had spoken to her parents.
They were given conflicting information.
Admiral agreed to send call recordings but never did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From November 2018, Ms D had a comprehensive policy subject to an excess of £600.00. 
She had 2 years NCB.
Admirals policy terms included a term as follows:
We are entitled to:
oconduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
oadmit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
I dont consider that an unusual term in a motor insurance policy. It meant that  on the 
subject of whether to accept a third partys claim  Admirals view would prevail over Ms Ds. 
It didnt need her consent to settle a claim. And it didnt have to wait for input from her 
parents.
The policy terms also included the following:
"if youmake a claim or a claim is made against you, and you do not have protected 
or guaranteed No Claims Bonus, your No Claims Bonus will be reduced".
Again, I dont consider that an unusual term in a motor insurance policy. But I wouldnt 
expect an insurer to reduce No Claims Bonus if it were able to recover all its outlay.
Ms D reported that she had been reversing from a car parking bay and hit a third party. 
Admiral considered that  as she was reversing  Ms D had a greater duty of care. It 
decided to admit that shed been negligent.
There was no CCTV or other independent evidence that the third party was speeding or in 
an incorrect position. 
In the usual course of events, a third party or his insurer would claim for damage caused by 
a reversing vehicle.  And the third partys report would likely be no more favourable to Ms D 
than her own.
So I dont find that Admiral treated Ms D unfairly by contacting the third party and admitting 
liability based on her report alone. 
Admiral wasnt likely to recover all its outlay. So I dont consider that Admiral treated Ms D 
unfairly by reducing her NCB and applying the policy excess.
Im satisfied that Admiral acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy. 
Ms Ds mother became involved on her return from holiday. Admiral noted her as an 
authorised caller. But, under the rules by which the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
bound, we can only consider compensation for the policyholder Ms D.
We have confirmed to Ms D that Admiral will release the call recordings to her if she 
provides personal identification. Ive listened to the calls. I havent identified any conflicting 
information. But I think Admirals final response was right to apologise for the repetition and 
tone in some of the calls.
I find that this caused Ms D and her mother unnecessary extra upset in an already difficult 
situation. I dont find that the extra upset to Ms D was at a level that called for monetary 
compensation. So Admirals payment of £35.00 to her mother is more than I would otherwise 
have found fair and reasonable.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman