DRN-3776602
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society has held him responsible for disputed 
transactions and registered a fraud prevention marker against him. 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. In summary:
Mr J says that he did not make transactions to a gambling company. He explains that 
he had self-excluded from using gambling websites, so it was not possible for him to 
gamble. Initially Mr J said he was in a caf at the time the transactions were made, 
but then said hed been at home. He since said that hed given his bank card to a 
friend so they could buy drinks, but the friend set up the gambling account and made 
these disputed transactions without his authority. Mr J later explained that hed been 
forced to make these transactions. 
Nationwide refused to refund the payments. It didnt consider it was likely a fraudster 
was responsible for the disputed spending. It concluded Mr J had misused his bank 
account and reported the matter to Cifas. A marker was placed on the National Fraud 
Database. Nationwide also took the decision to close Mr Js account because of 
concerns about the way hed interacted with building society staff. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the matter but 
did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded Mr J had 
been inconsistent in what hed said about the disputed transactions and was not 
persuaded that a third party had made them. He didnt think Nationwide had treated 
Mr J unfairly.
Mr J didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said accounts with gambling companies 
that had not been verified could not be used to make any deposits or withdrawals so there 
was no reason for him to have jeopardized his name and money. He provided evidence to 
show that hed applied for gambling blocks that were active at the time the disputed 
transactions were made. Mr J accepted that hed changed his version of events but said hed 
done so because he was scared to share what had really happened for fear of the 
consequences. He said hed not been involved in what had happened and said the marker 
was having a negative impact on his life, costing him his dream job and preventing him from 
getting a bank account. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not consider that Nationwide needs to take any further action in relation 
to this complaint. Ill explain why.
The disputed transactions  
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
and building societies will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr J made the disputed 
transactions himself or agreed they could be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask 
Nationwide to refund them.
Mr J has given differing versions of events for the wider circumstances surrounding these 
payments. As theres been some dispute about what happened, Ive considered whether, on 
balance, Mr J authorised the transactions that have been disputed  and so, in line with the 
relevant Payment Service Regulations, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the 
payments or gave consent for someone else to complete them. 
Having looked at all of the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mr J did 
authorise the transactions. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold Mr J liable for them. 
I say this because:
Mr J has suggested that his friend made the transactions after being given his card to 
buy drinks at a birthday celebration. Mr J has not given much detail as to 
approximately what time this happened, where they were or whether his card was 
returned to him afterwards. Nonetheless, if this is how the disputed transactions 
happened, Nationwide can still hold Mr J responsible for them. By giving his friend 
his card, Mr J has given his friend permission to act on his behalf. Even if Mr J did 
not agree to or know about these transactions to the gambling company, providing 
his friend with the ability to make payments served to, in effect, authorise further 
spending with the card, even if the friend spent more than Mr J agreed that he could 
and in circumstances they had not discussed. 
It seems unlikely that Mr Js friend would have much to gain by using Mr Js card in 
this way. Mr Js friend could have used the card to buy goods or services instead, 
giving him a direct and immediate benefit. Transferring the funds onto a gambling 
platform creates an extra barrier to be able to use the money as his friend would also 
need to have access to the gambling account. Even if gambling was the motivation, it 
is difficult to see how Mr Js friend could have recovered any potential winnings as 
they could only be paid back to the account or card where the payments had been 
credited from. 
Mr J contacted the gambling company by live chat to report the transactions. The 
gambling company has confirmed that the IP address for the live chat matched the IP 
address used to access the account on its platform where Mr Js funds were 
deposited.
Mr J said to Nationwide that to be honest I was forced to make those transactions 
and I didnt mean to do it.  If Mr J made these transactions himself, Nationwide didnt 
do anything wrong by acting on his instructions. Being pressured or coerced into 
giving consent for a payment doesnt make the underlying transaction unauthorised. 
I cannot ignore the information provided by the gambling company. It has referenced 
a conversation when Mr Js legitimate gambling account was blocked. The extracts 
show that the participant in that live chat said they were going to make a fake 
account using fake documentation to be able to access the platform and then raise a 
dispute about the transactions at a later date. Although Mr J has said he was not involved in this interaction, I cant see how or why a third party could have accessed 
his account to make these comments, especially as it happened around six months 
before the transactions that are now in dispute.  
The fraud prevention marker
The marker that Nationwide has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  in this case this is reporting a false disputed transaction claim.
To file a marker, Nationwide is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr J is 
guilty of fraud or a financial crime, but it does need to show that there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. The relevant guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
In practice what this means is Nationwide needs to have evidence that Mr J has been 
deliberately dishonest in claiming that transactions were carried out on his account without 
his consent. 
Ive already considered whether I think on balance Mr J should be held liable for the disputed 
transactions. And Im satisfied that he should. Im not persuaded that these transactions 
were genuinely disputed when Mr J reported them to Nationwide. I think the number of 
changes to his account of the key events are a strong indicator that he knew rather more 
about the situation than hed initially disclosed to the building society. 
However, the bar for loading a negative fraud marker is a high one. The negative fraud 
marker has serious consequences for Mr J, so Ive thought carefully about whether theres 
sufficient evidence to conclude that he has been intentionally and deliberately dishonest 
when raising a claim. 
Based on all the information I have; Im satisfied Cifas evidential standard has been met. In 
cases such as this one where the key facts are less clear, I need to draw conclusions based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. One of the factors I need to 
account for is how credible and persuasive Mr Js explanations for what happened are when 
weighed against the other information and evidence available to me. I have not found Mr Js 
version of events to be plausible. It has been inconsistent and doesnt add up with the 
sequence of events that Nationwide has evidenced from its own records or with the 
information obtained from the gambling company. 
On balance, I find Nationwide has reasonable grounds to believe Mr J was knowingly 
involved in a fraud or financial crime and theres enough evidence for it to have confidently 
reported that conduct to the police. As this is the case, I dont think Nationwide has acted 
unfairly by recording a fraud prevention marker. It follows that I cannot fairly conclude that 
Nationwide should have to remove the marker now.  
Closing Mr Js account
Nationwide made the decision to close Mr Js account without notice. In its final response 
letter, it explained that Mr J made threats towards staff and behaved in a way that was 
inappropriate and unacceptable towards staff members on a number of occasions. It closed 
Mr Js accounts with immediate effect and opted to write off the debit balance on one of his accounts rather than interact again. 
This action left Mr J without a bank account. Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank 
account has made things very difficult for Mr J, especially as hes described how difficult it is 
for him to obtain full banking facilities as a result of the fraud marker Nationwide has loaded.
Its generally for banks and building societies to decide whether or not they want to provide, 
or continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Having looked carefully 
at the surrounding circumstances, I think the building society was entitled to end its banking 
relationship with Mr J. It is provided for in the account terms and conditions, which explain 
that Nationwide can close accounts immediately in exceptional circumstances such as when 
it reasonably suspects a customer to have carried out illegal or fraudulent activity on the 
account or when a customer has been threatening or abusive towards staff. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has applied these terms fairly in this case. 
Overall
I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing for Mr J. But even taking into account the 
impact the fraud marker is having on him, I am unable to fairly and reasonably conclude that 
Nationwide has acted incorrectly. I dont think it was inappropriate for Nationwide to decline 
the disputed transactions claim Mr J raised. I am also not persuaded Nationwide has treated 
Mr J unfairly by adding a fraud marker or taking the decision to close his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman