DRN-1214656
The complaint
Mrs T is complaining about the amount Tesco Underwriting Limited has offered for her car 
after she made a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs T was involved in an accident with another car, so she contacted Tesco to 
claim on her car insurance policy. Tesco declared the car a total loss and it said it would pay 
her the car's market value less her excess to settle the claim. It initially offered her around 
£2,300 to settle the claim.
Mrs T complained as she didn't think it was fair Tesco wrote the car off. She also thought 
Tesco's valuation was significantly below what she thought the car was actually worth. 
Tesco reviewed the claim again and acknowledged that it hadn't taken into account the car's 
low mileage and optional extras. So it increased the valuation to £3,344.
Mrs T still didn't think this valuation was fair and referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought Tesco's offer was fair. She said it was in line with the valuation guides 
this service uses. And she was satisfied Tesco had taken the optional extras into account.
Mrs T didn't agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to not uphold this complaint and I'll now explain why.
I note Mrs T thinks it was unfair Tesco wrote her car off. But the terms of her insurance 
policy gave Tesco the right to choose how to settle the claim  either by repairing the car or 
paying her its market value. Taking into account the estimated repair cost of the car, I don't 
think it was unfair that Tesco chose to settle the claim by paying her the car's market value.
Mrs T doesn't think Tesco's valuation of the car of £3,344 is fair because she says she can't 
replace the car for less than £3,500. She doesn't think Tesco has taken into account all the 
factory fitted optional extras that were added to the car.
I should first state that this services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an 
individual vehicle is. We look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy 
correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ts policy, Tesco has to pay 
her the market value of her car, less her excess.
The market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing the car with one of similar 
age, type, specification, mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or damage 
happenedAs I said, Tesco has valued Mrs Ts car at £3,344. Its said its valued this by reviewing the 
main industry valuation guides. It estimated the valuation of Mrs T's car in standard form was 
around £2,940. But it increased the valuation by a further £404 to take into account the car's 
optional extras.  
Its standard practice for the industry to use trade guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides give are 
based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars value to take into account the 
car's mileage and optional extras. Ive looked at the guides and they give a range of between 
£2,598 and £2,940. So Tesco has based its valuation on the highest valuation guide. So I 
think its base valuation of £2,940 for the car was fair. 
Tesco increased the valuation by a further £404 to take into account the car's optional 
extras. And I think it was more than reasonable that it did so. While Mrs T's car did have a 
number of factory fitted optional extras added, it should be noted it doesn't automatically 
follow that they increase the car's market value. And I'm conscious that the valuation guides 
don't think the optional extras would have added value to the car. Ultimately I'm satisfied that 
Tesco has taken into account the optional extras added to the car and treated Mrs T fairly in 
assessing the way this would impact the car's market value.
I recognise that Tesco initially incorrectly undervalued the car. But I think it took fair steps to 
put this right in a reasonable timeframe. And, ultimately, taking everything into account, I 
think Tesco has treated Mrs T fairly. So I don't think it needs to do anything to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman