The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has handled a claim 
he made on his home insurance policy.
Mr Es represented by Ms S.
What happened
In late August 2019, Mr E made an accidental damage claim on his home insurance policy, 
following a paint spillage. His walls, carpets and two sofas had been damaged. Lloyds asked 
Mr E for some information and appointed an investigator to look into the claim.
Mr E was unhappy with the time it was taking for Lloyds to look into his claim. So Ms S 
complained about the delay in progressing the claim in late September.
In early October 2019, Lloyds turned down the claim because it didnt think the sofas had 
been covered with a dust sheet before Mr E started painting. And it said the damage to the 
carpet already existed before the paint spill. But Mr E and Ms S disagreed. They said the 
sofas had been covered and that thered been previous accidental damage to the carpet, 
which they hadnt claimed for earlier. So Lloyds agreed to review the claim.
Lloyds responded to Mr Es complaint in November 2019. It explained the delays in looking 
into the claim were because it needed to make sure it was covered. At this point, Mr Es 
claim was still being considered. Mr E remained unhappy that Lloyds hadnt made a decision 
on his claim and Ms S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
Lloyds to make sure the claim was covered by the policy terms and conditions. And he didnt 
think thered been any unreasonable delays in the way itd dealt with the claim.
Mr E disagreed. Ms S explained theyd been interviewed by Lloyds and that several months 
on, itd decided to cancel Mr Es policy. She said theyd still experienced a lack of contact 
from Lloyds while the claim was ongoing.
The investigator explained we can only look at what happened up until the point Lloyds sent 
its final response to Mr Es original complaint in November 2019. So in this decision, Ive 
looked at how Lloyds handled Mr Es claim between August and November 2019. I havent 
considered anything that happened afterwards or whether Lloyds decision to cancel the 
policy was fair. I understand Mr E intends to make a new complaint about that issue, which 
will be investigated in due course.
DRN-1644551What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr E, I think Lloyds has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr E has claimed for accidental damage. But for the 
claim to be paid, Lloyds needs to be satisfied that the loss was down to accidental damage.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. 
Sometimes though, an insurer will investigate a claim on a policyholders behalf. Thats what 
happened here. The notes show Ms S called up to claim on Mr Es behalf on 29 August 
2019. Lloyds took down details and appointed an adjuster to go out to Mr Es home and 
investigate the cause of damage. This appointment took place around 10 days later. I dont 
think this was an unreasonable delay.
I can see that between the adjusters visit and Lloyds first decision to turn down the claim, 
Ms S called up a few times to chase up progress. I know there was some confusion around 
who the insurer of the policy was at times, but this wasnt why the claim was held up. It 
seems Lloyds was assessing the adjusters report and photos of the damage before deciding 
whether to pay the claim.
Lloyds let Ms S know it was turning down the claim on 9 October 2019  around five weeks 
after the claim had been made. I dont think this was an unreasonable timeframe. I think 
Lloyds was fairly entitled to weigh up all the information it needed to decide the claim.
Ms S appealed Lloyds decision at this point and provided further information to support the 
claim. Lloyds chose to review this information and reconsider its position. I think this was a 
reasonable course of action for it to take. It was still reviewing the claim at the point it issued 
its final response letter. 
Overall, I think Lloyds was entitled to investigate whether  Mr Es claim was covered. 
Sometimes, inevitably, these investigations may take some time. In this case, I think Lloyds 
took prompt action to look into Mr Es claim and its first claims decision was made in a 
reasonable timeframe. Given Mr E didnt accept its initial decision, I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to look further into what Ms S and Mr E said had happened. 
Based on all Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds caused any unreasonable delays which it needs 
to compensate Mr E for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman