DRN-3224180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that London and Country Mortgage Ltd (London and Country), didnt 
provide them with a correct illustration stating that the valuation fee was non-refundable. Mr 
and Mrs M also had concerns about when the valuation had taken place. 
What happened
Mr and Ms M applied for a mortgage through their broker, London and Country.
A discussion was had on the 16 April 2020 and an illustration was provided to Mr and Ms M 
about the mortgage, which also stated a valuation fee of £480 was to be paid on application. 
Mr and Mrs M said they were sent a link to a web portal on the 17 April in order to make the 
application. But they had issues submitting their documents, so they posted the documents 
to London and Country on 24 April. 
On 10 June Mrs M was furloughed by her employer, so Mr and Mrs M made the decision to 
withdraw their mortgage application. Mr and Mrs M contacted London and Country to 
withdraw the application and to also ask for the valuation fee to be refunded. Mr and Mrs M 
said that London and Country contacted the lender and they were told that the valuation 
hadnt been instructed but were then told a few days later the valuation was in fact carried 
out on 21 April. So, they were told the fee would not be refunded. 
Mr and Mrs M said that on the 21 April, they hadnt yet consented to the mortgage 
declaration as they only posted the forms back on 24 April. Mr and Mrs M said the forms 
were only sent to them by London and Country on the 21 April so the valuation should not 
have been instructed any earlier by the lender.
Mr and Mrs M complained to London and Country and they were told that the illustrations 
stated the fee was non-refundable, but Mr and Mrs M said the illustration they had didnt 
state this. Mr and Mrs M sent the illustration they had to the lender, who said that was not 
the illustration they sent to London and Country. And if London and Country hadnt sent the 
right illustration to Mr and Mrs M, they would need to take the matter up with them.
Mr and Mrs M complained to London and Country who explained that the instruction of the 
valuation falls with the lender and they cannot be held responsible for when it was instructed. 
They also said they relied on what the lender had told them with regards to the confusion as 
to whether the valuation had been carried out or not  so didnt feel they had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr and Mrs M then sent London and Country the illustration they had received from the 
lender, which did show that the fee was in fact non-refundable and argued they should have 
been told. London and Country sent another letter to Mr and Mrs M acknowledging that both 
illustrations were different, but under the rules of the regulator, they provided the correct 
information in line with those requirements  so they didnt agree that the valuation fee 
should be refunded by them. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with what they were told so they brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that 
the valuation fee should be refunded because he thought that Mr and Mrs M would still have 
proceeded with the application anyway, and the valuation had already taken place. But he 
did think that London and Country should have told Mr and Mrs M that the fee was non-
refundable by providing them with the correct illustrations so he asked them to pay £100 
compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
London and Country didnt agree with what our investigator said. They explained the 
mortgage conduct of business (MCOB) rules for ESIS (European standardised information 
sheet) only require them to show the fee amount, to whom the fee is paid and when the fee 
is to be paid. They said there is no requirement to show whether a fee is refundable. The 
MCOB rules for the ESIS also state that the illustration must contain only the material 
prescribed in MCOB 5A.5, and no other material. 
As they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 December 2021. I said:
Ive reviewed the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept there has been some confusion around when the valuation had in fact been 
instructed and I have taken note of what Mr and Mrs M have said.  But I think that in 
these circumstances, London and Country have been given information on what they 
thought was in fact correct. And I note that Mr and Mrs M asked to withdraw their 
application in June, so it was likely that the valuation had already been instructed. 
Either way, I think London and Country gave the information they were initially 
provided by the lender, which is reasonable. There would have been no benefit to 
them giving information to Mr and Mrs M that was incorrect  so I cant say they have 
done anything wrong here.  
Moving on to the mortgage illustrations, I have reviewed the one dated 16 April 2020 
that was issued by London and Country. This illustration shows that a valuation fee of 
£480 is payable to [lender] on application. It makes no reference as to whether the 
fee is refundable or not. This illustration was provided to Mr and Mrs M before a 
formal mortgage application and or offer was made. 
I have then looked at a welcome letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs M by the lender 
which was dated 20 April 2020. Under the section for valuations, it confirms that the 
fee is not refundable if the mortgage application is declined by the lender, or if the 
borrower changes their mind. So, I accept these documents differ and can 
understand the point that Mr and Mrs M are making. 
Mr and Mrs M have highlighted they signed the mortgage declaration on the 21 April 
2020. They said that within the declaration under section 4 fees, it stated I agree that 
where it is indicated in the Mortgage Illustration or Offer that a fee is not refundable, I 
am aware of this. I agree this declaration is clear, but I can see that the welcome 
letter sent to Mr and Mrs M dated 20 April, did confirm that the valuation fee is not-
refundable  and I think this was clear. 
The crux of the matter here is whose responsibility it was to inform Mr and Mrs M that 
the fee was in fact non-refundable and I do agree with London and Country that it 
was not for them to show this on the initial pre-contract illustration. 
Under the mortgage rules, MCOB 5 specifically relates to pre-application disclosure. 
MCOB 5A.5 sets out the required content of an ESIS provided to a consumer by a 
firm. An ESIS is a pre- contractual disclosure document that is provided to a 
consumer before an application is made. MCOB 5.A.5 states:
Content: required information states the ESIS provided to consumers must:
(1) Contain only the material prescribed in MCOB 5A.5 and no other material; and
(2) Be in a document separate from any other material that is provided to the 
consumer.
The information required under the rules confirm that the ESIS should show the full 
fee amount, who the fee is payable to and when the fee is to be paid. There is no 
requirement for the ESIS to show whether the fee is refundable or not. Having looked 
at the illustration that was sent by London and Country, the illustration adhered to 
these requirements so they were not wrong in not specifying that the fee may not be 
refundable.
Our investigator thought that London and Country should have still informed Mr and 
Mrs M that this fee was not refundable and while I agree it would have been helpful 
for London and Country to do this, they didnt have to. And even if they did, the 
outcome would have still been the same. The application went ahead, and I have no 
reason to believe that even if London and Country did inform Mr and Mrs M that the 
fee wasnt refundable, that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
application. 
I therefore dont agree that London and Country should pay any compensation to Mr 
and Mrs M because Im satisfied they did what they needed to do under the rules and 
regulations.
Developments 
London and Country and Mr and Mrs M responded to my provisional decision. London and 
Country said they had no further comments to make. Mr and Mrs M said they didnt agree 
with the outcome but didnt have any further comments to make. They felt that compensation 
should be warranted but they said they understood that London and Country didnt have to 
issue the correct illustration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no other comments for me to consider and no new information for me to take 
into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman