DRN-2190104
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was unable sell some of the loan parts in his crowdfunding account
with Funding Circle Ltd.
What happened
Funding Circle is a loan-based crowdfunding platform which allows investors to lend money
to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a
proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives
interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Ns complaint, Funding Circle provided an 
autosale tool on its platform. This provided a way for investors to access their funds early by
selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a secondary market. But this was subject
to the loan part meeting certain requirements, such as there not being a late payment or a
default on the loan.
Mr N requested to sell around £3,000 of his investments in April 2019. Although Mr N was
unhappy that it took until the 31 May 2019 for the sale to complete, he was also dissatisfied
that he only received just over £1,200 from the sale. Funding Circle explained that this was
because around 35 of the loan parts he put up for sale were removed from the sales queue
before the sale was completed. Mr N complained to Funding Circle as he didnt understand
why this happened.
Funding Circle explained that there were some restrictions on selling loan parts. It said that
loan parts could not be sold when they were in a processing status  where a borrower is
within the direct debit cycle (for the purposes of making their regular interest payments) and
the direct debit has not yet been received by Funding Circle in order for it to be distributed to
lenders.
Funding Circle explained that some of Mr Ns loan parts had entered into this processing
status, which caused them to be removed from the sales queue (between the time he
requested the sale and before they could be successfully sold to other investors). It
explained that this restriction was an important way of protecting investors looking to buy
loan parts on the secondary market, as it prevented loan parts from being sold where
Funding Circle had not yet received the monthly repayment successfully from the borrower.
Funding Circle apologised for any disappointment it may have caused but explained that Mr
N would be able to re-list any unsold loan parts after the repayments were successfully
received and noted that he had done this. Whilst Funding Circle was confident that it made
investors aware of the selling restrictions on the platform, it did acknowledge that the
information about the possibility for loan parts to be removed from the sales queue mid-sale
could have been made clearer to Mr N. And so it offered £25 in recognition for any
inconvenience caused.
Mr N didnt accept Funding Circles response as he felt it hadnt answered why all 35 loans
had gone into a processing status on 30 May 2019, only to become eligible for sale again
the following day. He thought it was highly unlikely that 35 failed direct debit payments were
resolved within 24 hours and instead suggested that there was an issue with Funding
Circles processes.
Funding Circle explained that loans can go into a processing status when it has been
unsuccessful in taking payments from the borrowers the first time around. It said that it looks
to take the payment from the borrower before the payment date, and where there is a delay
in receiving this, the loan will go into a processing status until Funding Circle re-requests the
payment and it is successfully taken. Funding Circle also suggested that the recent bank
holidays may have affected the payments.
Mr N remained unhappy as he felt Funding Circles systems should be able to deal with bank
holidays and he requested that it provide him with evidence that the borrowers failed to pay
on time. However, Funding Circle was unable to provide this as it explained that records
arent kept for loans which temporarily go into processing status.
In June 2019 Funding Circle contacted Mr N to explain that it had updated its sale tool and
the way that it operates. Previously it selected the loans for sale at the time when an investor
put the sale request through, but it had since changed so that it selects available loans when
an investor reaches the top of the queue instead. Funding Circle hoped that this would
prevent loans from being removed from the queue when they go into a processing status
before reaching the top of the queue.
Mr N was pleased with these changes but asked that our service investigate his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circle explained that during the waiting period to sell on the secondary 
market, any loan parts that werent eligible for sale were removed from the sales 
queue.
Funding Circles terms and conditions made it clear when a loan wouldnt be eligible 
for sale. 
Once a loan part was removed it wasnt re-listed even if it became eligible for sale 
again. 
Funding Circle acknowledged that an investor would have to re-list and wait, hoping 
their loan parts didnt become ineligible for sale again whilst in the sales queue.
Funding Circles terms and conditions stated that, it may not always be possible to 
withdraw the exact amount of your request. 
Funding Circle had since made changes to their system based on feedback from 
investors. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions explained that, you can sell your loan parts to 
other investors (subject to demand) and so being able to sell relies on other 
investors wanting to invest, which is out of Funding Circles control.
Overall, Funding Circle had addressed Mr Ns concerns; its terms and conditions 
were clear; and the £25 offered felt fair.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he felt it was too much of a coincidence
that all 35 loans had failed repayments on them and were then suddenly resolved the
following day. But if this was the case then he wanted to see evidence of this.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.Having passed the case to me for a decision, Funding Circle made further
representations which explained:
It received funds from the borrowers on Mr Ns loan parts in question before 30 May 
2019. But these werent distributed to investors until 31 May 2019, a day after the 
actual repayment date. This is why the loans changed to processing status.
This is standard practice across the platform and not an individual issue with Mr Ns 
account.
As there was a bank holiday on 27 May 2019, payments on loans which were due 
that day took priority on the following day when they were able to be processed, as 
the payments are processed in date order.
Therefore, Mr Ns loans were affected by the bank holiday, due to the increase of 
loans needing to be processed, causing a slight delay to all payments on loans which 
were due in the few days following the bank holiday.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020. In it I said:
In reaching my provisional conclusions on this case, Ive taken into account industry good
practice, and any applicable guidance or rules from the FCA. These include high level
principle 2.1 A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence, 2.7
communicate information in a way that is fair, clear and not misleading and COBS 2.1.1 A
firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally according to the best interests of its client.
Funding Circle provides an opportunity for investors to sell their loan parts to other investors
by way of the auto-sale tool on the platform. Although Mr N could use the auto-sale tool to
request his loans parts to be sold, Funding Circles terms and conditions set out some
limitations to this. The terms and conditions explain that loan parts cant be sold, if there is
one repayment remaining or if the internal risk band classification of the [loan] has
changed. They also explain that loans which are late or in default or loans which are part
of a loan securitisation exercise are also unable to be sold.
Funding Circles terms and conditions also explain that it cant guarantee that all the loan
parts will sell, nor how long it may take for a sale to complete, as this is reliant upon there
being a demand by other investors  something which I agree is out of Funding Circles
control.
So whilst Mr N is clearly unhappy with the amount of time it took for his sale request to be
completed, the crux of the complaint, and in my view the main issue which I need to decide,
is whether it was fair and reasonable for Funding Circle to remove some of his loan parts
from the sales queue.
Funding Circle initially explained that it removed Mr Ns loan parts from the sales queue as
they had gone into a processing status due to borrowers not making their payments on time.
However, Funding Circle has since clarified that payments were received into its account
from the borrowers prior to the payment date. So its my understanding that the loans went
into a processing status because Funding Circle was unable to process the payments from
borrowers and allocate these to investors by the payment date.
I appreciate that Funding Circle has said this was due to a knock-on effect of delays caused
by the bank holiday, however, the fact remains that the borrowers payments werent late.
Ive also not been provided with any evidence to suggest that Mr Ns loans were ineligible for
transfer due to any of the other reasons listed under Funding Circles terms and conditions.
So its clear Funding Circle acted outside of its terms and conditions by removing Mr Nsloan parts.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Funding Circle to act outside of its terms and
conditions in this instance and Im not persuaded that it was. Funding Circle offered a
service where Mr N could sell his loans if other investors on the platform were willing to buy
them. Whilst I appreciate Funding Circle cant control demand, it ought fairly to process
requests in a systematic and fair way. In Mr Ns case, he asked to sell some of his loan parts
and there was no fundamental reason why he should not have been able to. The loan parts
didnt present some different level of risk to prospective investors, which would have been a
fair reason for Funding Circle to withdraw them. The loan parts had the appearance of
having something wrong with them, but this was purely down to the status Funding Circle
applied to them. And this wasnt a fair reflection of the actual status of the loan parts
because the repayments had indeed been received from the borrowers. So Mr N has been
disadvantaged for no reasonable reason.
Considering all of the above, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ns complaint. As such, I
consider Funding Circle ought to compensate him.
putting things right
When looking to put things right, I must consider that even if Funding Circle hadnt removed
Mr Ns loan parts from the sales queue, it wasnt guaranteed that all his loan parts would
have sold. This is because the sale of loan parts is dependent on there being other investors
who want to take ownership of these. Im conscious that Mr Ns loans had already been up
for sale for around a month and had not sold before being removed from the sales queue.
So given the length of time theyd been up for sale, I cant say on the balance of probabilities
when or even if the loan parts would have sold. As such, it isnt possible to attribute a
financial loss to Mr N as a result of Funding Circles decision to remove the loan parts from
the sales queue.
However, I have also considered what impact Funding Circles actions had on Mr N. And
having done so, its clear that Mr N has suffered some trouble and upset here. I think it was
fair for Mr N to ask for a clear explanation as to why his loan parts were removed and I can
see he invested a great deal of time in communicating with Funding Circle to get an answer.
However, Funding Circle wasnt able to provide him with the detail he was hoping for which I
understand would have caused him further frustration. I also appreciate that Mr N had to go
through the inconvenience of having to put the loan parts back up for sale again which he
wouldnt have needed to do had the borrowers payments been processed on time, but for
Funding Circles delay. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Funding Circles error
caused Mr N trouble and upset for which I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable 
compensation.
In response to my provisional decision, Funding Circle acknowledged that its system failed 
to account for the delay in receiving and redistributing loan repayments that were due over a 
bank holiday, which resulted in Mr Ns loan parts being flagged as processing. So it agreed 
to compensate Mr N £150 for the level of inconvenience he experienced.
However, Funding Circle rejected my findings on the basis that it didnt think Mr N had been 
treated unfairly. In summary, it said:
Its critical from both a legal and regulatory perspective, but also from a customer 
protection perspective that it detects all late or missed payments on loans and 
suspends the affected loan parts from being sold on the secondary market.
If a business is late in repaying, or if Funding Circle has any other information which 
might suggest that the repayment status of the loan or the creditworthiness of the borrower has changed or is changing, it is obliged to act. And a failure to do so would 
put it in breach of its regulatory obligations. 
It cannot monitor this manually, on a loan by loan or transaction by transaction basis, 
therefore it is not unreasonable for it to have implemented automated rules and 
triggers which act to protect investors.
With all automated systems, they are designed to include an extra element of caution 
to protect the customer from any potential risks. It is preferable in product design to 
have occasional false-flags than to miss incidents which ought to have been 
identified. Where these anomalies arise, the occasional undesirable outcomes are 
preferable to the alternative.
Whilst it acknowledged that the product is not perfect, and it had since fixed the bank 
holiday issue, it said it did not treat Mr N in a way that is contrary to its terms and 
conditions or other published investor guidance - all of which make it clear that the 
availability of the secondary market is not guaranteed and that there is no obligation 
on Funding Circle to act on any sale request if it believes it has good reason not to. 
With hindsight, it acknowledged that in Mr Ns case there as no additional risk 
attached to those loan parts that were unable to be sold, but in almost all other cases 
where a loan changes to a processing status, the reason behind the status change is 
due to a failure on the borrowers part to make repayments on time. Therefore, the 
processing status is a fundamental control that has been implemented with our 
investors' protection in mind.
Mr N accepted my findings in the provisional decision and accepted the £150 compensation 
which Id recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Im pleased to see that Funding Circle has agreed to compensate Mr N £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused, as outlined in my provisional decision. However, I understand it disagrees 
that Mr N was treated unfairly. I believe many of the points Funding Circle has made have 
been made previously and that Ive already taken them into account and addressed them in 
my provisional decision. So they dont change my thoughts on the case, and I wont repeat 
my reasoning at length here.
However, having reviewed Funding Circles comments, there are some areas that I would 
like to clarify.
I appreciate the points Funding Circle has made regarding the regulatory need to have a 
system in place to prevent loan parts being sold on the secondary market where there are 
repayment issues. I agree that this is a fundamental safeguard for the protection of investors 
who purchase these loan parts. I also accept that Funding Circle may not be able to monitor 
this on a loan by loan or transactional basis and so it relies upon automated systems for 
detection. 
However, its clear to me that this automated system didnt work as intended in Mr Ns case. 
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to remove loan parts from the secondary 
market which are late or in default. But as previously explained, this clearly wasnt the case 
here. Funding Circle has accepted that its system failed to account for the delay in receiving 
and redistributing borrowers repayments which were due over the bank holiday period. This 
meant that Mr Ns loan parts werent dealt with as they should have. And this resulted in Mr N being in a position he oughtnt have been in, but for this system feature. Its therefore fair 
and reasonable for Funding Circle to compensate him for any financial loss or trouble and 
upset he suffered as a result. 
Whilst I understand Funding Circles logic that its preferable to have the occasional false-
flags than to miss incidents which ought to have been identified, the fact remains that there 
were false-flags which caused Mr N detriment and so he ought to be compensated for this. 
As explained in my provision decision, Funding Circle never guaranteed that Mr Ns loan 
parts would sell on the secondary market, a point it makes clear in its terms and conditions. 
And since Mr Ns loans had already been up for sale for around a month and had not sold 
before being removed from the sales queue, I cant say on the balance of probabilities when 
or even if the loan parts would have sold. As such, it isnt possible to attribute a financial loss 
to Mr N as a result of Funding Circles decision to remove the loan parts from the sales 
queue.
However, its clear that Mr N suffered some trouble and upset here. I think it was
fair for Mr N to ask for a clear explanation as to why his loan parts were removed and I can
see he invested a great deal of time in communicating with Funding Circle to get an answer.
However, Funding Circle didnt provide him with the detail he was hoping for which I
understand would have caused him further frustration. I also appreciate that Mr N had to go
through the inconvenience of having to put the loan parts back up for sale again which he
wouldnt have needed to do had the borrowers payments been processed on time, but for
Funding Circles delay. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Funding Circles error caused Mr N trouble and 
upset for which I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Funding Circle Ltd must pay Mr N £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused within 28 days of when we tell it Mr N has 
accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman