DRN-3990051
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In autumn 2022, Miss A was abroad. She says was using her phone a lot in a restaurant and 
someone must have overlooked her entering her passcode. She says her bag was swiped 
from her when she left the restaurant, with her phone, purse, and debit card inside. She 
disputes all the transactions which happened from that point, totalling about £2,400.
The transactions were mostly made to gambling companies, most of which Miss A had used 
before, and the winnings were paid back to Miss A. There were also payments to Miss As 
family and associates, transfers from her savings, and cash withdrawals and card payments 
both in the country she was on holiday in, then later in her local area in the UK. The disputed 
payments started a number of days after Miss A says her bag was stolen, and happened 
over the course of several weeks.
Miss A explained she kept all her passcodes written down in her phone, and she used the 
same number  based on her birthday  for her phone, online banking, and PIN, so they 
wouldve been easy to guess or find out. She said she didnt report things to Barclays at the 
time because her child was unwell and the call costs were too high. She couldnt provide a 
police report as the police wouldnt help her. She said she didnt have to replace her 
passport or keys as they were kept elsewhere, and she was still able to fund the rest of the 
trip as she had cash in a separate purse also kept elsewhere. She says she returned to the 
UK just after the disputed payments finished, but could no longer find evidence of her flights.
Barclays held Miss A liable for the payments in dispute. They noted that many of the 
payments had been made from Miss As usual IP addresses, or were in her local area 
despite her bag reportedly being stolen in another country. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
noted that the disputed payments hadnt started until several days after Miss A says her bag 
was stolen, were made slowly, fit with her usual spending, and included payments to 
associates of Miss A.
Miss A appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Barclays can hold Miss A liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Barclayss technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss As 
genuine card and card details, the correct PIN, her registered mobile phone, and her online 
banking security details. So I can see that these transactions were properly authenticated. 
The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Miss A consented 
to the transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for Barclays to hold Miss A liable for the transactions in dispute. Ill explain 
why.
It is technically possible that a thief could have watched Miss A use her phone, stolen her 
bag with her phone and card, and learned her PIN and security details. But I dont think its 
likely or plausible in this particular case.
I would expect a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as possible. 
Customers would normally report such theft straight away and get their account blocked, so 
a thief would need to act very quickly. But here, the disputed payments dont start until 
several days after Miss A says her bag was stolen. And its not plausible a thief would wait 
that long to start taking money. They could not have known that Miss A would wait several 
weeks to report things to Barclays.
Similarly, the disputed payments were made quite slowly, over the course of several weeks, 
for usually quite small amounts. So the person using the account was not spending nearly as 
much as they could have. That doesnt fit with what a thief or fraudster would do, but does fit 
with the payments being genuine authorised spending.
The disputed payments even include payments to Miss As family and associates, matching 
up with her previous payments to these people. It is not plausible that a fraudster would give 
money to Miss As friends and family, but it does fit very well with the possibility that the 
payments were authorised.
Much of the spending was to gambling merchants, some of whom already had Miss As card 
details because she used them herself before. A thief or fraudster would get no benefit from 
paying these merchants, as any winnings would be paid back to Miss A. Indeed, I can see 
that she received a number of winnings payments during the disputed period. Its not 
plausible that a fraudster would try to make money for their victim, but this activity does fit 
well with the possibility that it was genuine authorised use of the account.
Importantly, while the disputed payments start off being made abroad, where Miss A was on 
holiday, they go on to be made back in the UK, in Miss As local area, at merchants she 
previously used herself. This includes spending at Miss As local supermarkets, local 
restaurants and take-outs, her holiday provider, the pet supplies shop she previously used, 
her usual local bingo hall, and top-up payments to her utility company. It is not credible that a 
thief abroad would just happen to travel to the UK at about the same time Miss A did, go to 
where Miss A lived, and spend money at the places that Miss A normally would  including 
for her usual shopping and bills. But it fits very well with the possibility that the spending was 
in fact genuine.It's also important to note that much of the disputed activity was made from IP addresses 
which match the ones Miss A previously used for her genuine online activity, back at home 
in the UK. Again, it is not likely or plausible that a thief from abroad could do this, but it very 
much supports the possibility that the disputed activity was authorised.
If Miss As bag was taken from her person, and it carried essentials like her phone and bank 
card, then she would have known almost straight away that it was gone. Yet she didnt tell 
Barclays anything was wrong for about three weeks. It is unlikely that Miss A would wait so 
long to report things if her card and phone were really stolen.
Miss A said she was distracted at first because her child was unwell. But while I understand 
that her child must come first, its not plausible that this would prevent her from contacting 
Barclays for several weeks. Miss A also said she didnt report things because the call costs 
were too high when calling from abroad. But if Miss As phone had been stolen, then she 
wouldnt have called on her own phone anyway  she wouldve had to borrow someone 
elses phone, such as at her hotel. So the call costs would not have been relevant to her. 
Further, the money Miss A stood to lose to fraud far outweighed any such call costs, so it 
wouldnt make sense for her to allow the fraud to carry on just to save on call costs.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which shows or substantiates that these payments were 
unauthorised, nor any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss A 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, based on the evidence, it is not likely or plausible that the disputed payments 
were made by a thief from abroad, as Miss A said they were. Whereas the evidence strongly 
indicates that the payments were made with Miss As consent. So I think its fair for Barclays 
to decline a refund in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Miss A to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I also understand that Miss A is unhappy Barclays blocked her account. But they were 
supposed to do that after she reported shed been defrauded, in order to stop any further 
potential fraud from happening. And I do understand Miss A is unhappy that Barclays closed 
her account. But similar to how Miss A can choose who she banks with, Barclays can 
broadly choose who banks with them. I can see that they closed the account in line with the 
terms and conditions. So I dont think they handled things inappropriately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman