DRN-2967542
The complaint
Mr F complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank, didnt do enough to 
prevent him losing money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2020 Mr F made a series of payments totalling around £170,000 to a business Ill refer to 
as R. At the time Mr F believed the payments were to fund an investment although he now 
believes that R were operating a scam. The payments were made using his Clydesdale 
Mastercard debit card. 
Mr F complained to Clydesdale. In essence he feels they ought to have stopped him from 
making the payments to R. He believes Clydesdale knowingly allowed him to invest with a 
fraudulent business. He also thinks Clydesdale failed to assist him in the recovery of his loss 
through the chargeback scheme. 
Clydesdale didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong. They didnt think they had reason 
to stop the payments when they were made, or that Mr F had a valid claim under the 
chargeback scheme. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. In summary she didnt agree that R were operating a scam. And she also 
didnt think that Mr F would have been able to make a successful chargeback claim. Mr F 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr F has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
many of these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first 
consideration must be whether R were operating a scam as Mr F alleges. 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time R were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySec). They were also able to offer their services to UK customers 
as recorded on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website. The services being offered 
may have been high risk and I accept Mr Fs testimony that its likely there were some 
questionable sales and marketing techniques. But that doesnt in itself mean R were 
operating a scam.
Ive considered all the evidence Mr F has provided which includes reports from the FCA. And 
I note that soon after Mr Fs payments had all been made the FCA withdrew their permission 
for R to offer their services in the UK. But this doesnt change my mind about whether R 
were operating a scam at the relevant time. The FCA withdrawing permission also doesnt 
automatically mean that R were operating a scam. 
Our service received confirmation from the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman that following their 
involvement in Mr Fs complaint about R an offer of £60,000 was made to him. I note Mr F 
told our Investigator that he didnt accept (or receive) this amount from R. Our Investigator 
discovered that this wasnt true, and that Mr F had in fact received the payment mentioned 
above (in March 2021). 
Firstly, this makes it difficult to place much weight on Mr Fs testimony as credible or reliable 
evidence. And secondly, if R were operating a scam and were essentially a criminal 
enterprise, its difficult to understand why they would have returned or made an offer for 
£60,000. 
Ive also considered a redacted view from our service in relation to a different complaint that 
Mr F has submitted which concluded that R were operating a scam. A finding in relation to 
whether or not a firm is a scam evolves on the basis of the information available at the time. I 
cant comment on the Investigators view on another complaint. I must make my own 
findings based on the evidence available to me. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to support that R were operating a 
scam at the time Mr F made the payments. And although banks have obligations to be alert 
to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So as I dont think R were operating a scam, there isnt any reason for 
Clydesdale to have intervened at the time Mr F made his payments to them. I appreciate that 
Clydesdale did intervene and had a conversation with Mr F in relation to his first payment, 
but Im not going to discuss this in detail because Ive concluded that there was no scam to 
protect Mr F against. 
Ultimately how Mr F chose to spend the money in his account was his business, and unless 
there is evidence of a fraud, scam or misappropriation of the funds, Clydesdale arent 
required to interfere in this. I appreciate the payments represented a significant increase in 
spending compared to Mr Fs historical account use. But again, as there was no scam to 
protect against, I dont think Clydesdale ought to have done more. 
Recovery
Clydesdale are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to any sort 
of investment. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback 
route to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. 
But in this case, the nature of Mr Fs claim is that R were operating a scam, and this isnt 
something the chargeback scheme provides protection against. So, I dont think Clydesdale 
acted unfairly when declining to take a chargeback further, as I dont think there was an 
avenue for them to pursue that had any prospect of success. Im sorry Mr F has lost such a large amount of money. But despite my natural sympathy for 
his situation, I dont think Clydesdale need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman