DRN-1207044
The complaint
Mr G complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down his claim to 
replace the tanking in his cellar following an escape of water. 
What happened
Mr Gs cellar flooded in early June 2018. He contacted his water provider, who I will refer to 
as Company A, who confirmed there was a significant leak in the water main outside Mr 
Gs property and that the water in his cellar had come from the burst water main. So 
Company A repaired the water main and arranged for the water to be pumped out of Mr Gs 
cellar.
Mr G submitted a claim to Company As insurers shortly afterwards for personal items 
damaged by the water, electricity used by de-humidifiers, for internal redecoration and for a 
replacement tanking system, which Mr G said had been damaged by the water entering his 
property. Mr G had obtained a quote for replacing the tanking from a specialist company, 
who said the tanking had failed as a result of the undue hydrostatic pressure caused by the 
burst water main. 
Company As insurers accepted liability in mid-June 2018. They agreed to cover the cost of 
replacing damaged contents and the additional electricity used, but turned down Mr Gs 
request to replace the tanking and also offered only a proportion of the redecorating costs. 
The insurers said theyd received an engineers report that said the hydrostatic pressure 
should not have been great enough to compromise the tanking. They also said the report 
highlighted a likely point of entry for the water below a radiator in the cellar, where render 
had been removed to accommodate plumbing. They said this method of below ground 
waterproofing relies on all layers of the render remaining intact. Company As insurers 
suggested Mr G could make a claim under any guarantee in place. 
Mr G decided to submit a claim to RSA under his home insurance policy in January 2019, 
with a view to having the tanking replaced and the internal redecoration completed. RSA 
turned down his claim in relation to the tanking. It arranged for a technical moisture survey 
of the cellar to be carried out, with a view to obtaining a certificate of dryness for Mr G. 
RSA said the water entered Mr Gs property because of an existing issue with the old 
tanking that Mr G was unaware of, and was not damaged by water from the burst main. RSA 
acknowledged that Mr G had obtained a quote to replace the tanking that said the 
hydrostatic pressure caused the tanking to fail, but it said this was not persuasive as it was 
from a company that had a vested interest in quoting for a high value job.
Mr G was unhappy and complained to RSA. It responded in April 2019 and didnt uphold Mr 
Gs complaint. It said the report it received from its experts confirms that while the original 
leak has caused internal water damage, under normal circumstances the tanking in the 
cellar remains uncompromised. It said the technician confirmed that the hydrostatic pressure 
wouldnt have damaged the tanking. RSA also said the report confirmed that the main entry 
point of the water was likely the furthest away from the leak. RSA also said Mr Gs best 
option might be for the first insurer to settle the claim for the building repairs. Or, 
alternatively, it could settle the claim, but subject to the applicable policy excess. 
Mr G continued to correspond with RSA. He obtained quotes for the decorating work totalling 
around £2,750. RSA agreed to pay this, less the excess amount.
Mr G was unhappy with RSAs response and so referred the complaint to this service. He 
said the survey had been carried out so that he could get a certificate of dryness and the 
surveyor wasnt able to explain how the cellar had flooded. Mr G said he shouldnt have to 
pay the excess, as it could be reclaimed from Company As insurers, which are also RSA. 
Mr G said his property no longer benefits from a watertight cellar and he cannot afford the 
cost of repairs, which is in excess of £20,000. He wants RSA to meet the cost of returning 
his property to the condition it was prior to the water leak. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said there isnt any evidence that the 
tanking has been damaged as a result of the hydrostatic pressure caused by the leak. He 
said, on balance, its possible that the condition of the tanking is the same now as it was 
before the incident, in that it performs in normal conditions. As the leak wouldve released a 
body of water over and above what could be considered normal, its possible that the excess 
water has found its way in via a weak point in the tanking. 
Our investigator said Mr G feels that the waters point of entry may have been behind the 
built-in cupboard. But no investigation has taken place behind this cupboard as yet. He said 
if Mr G decides to ask an expert to investigate behind the built-in cupboard and evidence of 
damage to the tanking is discovered, it would be fair for RSA to consider this further to 
decide whether it has been damaged by the insured cause. 
Mr G was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
But I first of all want to clarify that this decision is looking only at the claim made by Mr G 
against his own insurers under his home insurance policy. Its the case that Company As 
insurers are also RSA, but Mr G cant make a complaint to this service about Company As 
insurers decision to turn down his claim. He can only make a complaint to this service in 
relation to his own insurance policy.  
RSA dont agree that the water from the burst main caused damage to the tanking in Mr Gs 
cellar. It acknowledges flood water entered his property, but thinks its likely there was a pre-
existing problem with the tanking, one that had not been evident to Mr G and which came to 
light only after the water main burst. 
For his part, Mr G wants his property to be put back in the condition it was in prior to the 
water main bursting. And as it only came to light that the tanking was compromised after the 
cellar was flooded, he thinks the flood is the cause of the tanking being compromised and so 
wants RSA to pay for it to be replaced. 
Ive seen Mr Gs policy documents. Damage or loss that has occurred as a direct result of 
flooding in his property is an insured peril. And this means RSA need to cover the cost of 
damage to the tanking in Mr Gs property if its shown that the damage was caused by the 
water from the burst water main when it entered his property. RSA relied on two expert reports when it assessed Mr Gs claim. The first of these was from 
a building surveyor who specialises in water damage and basement waterproofing, and the 
second was from a surveyor who was asked to inspect the cellar to see if it had dried out 
sufficiently for a certificate of dryness to be issued. The first of these reports was obtained 
when Company As insurers were assessing the claim, while the second was obtained after 
Mr G submitted a claim under his home insurance policy. RSA are allowed to rely on the 
expert opinions in both reports. And insurers will almost always need to rely on expert 
reports. 
Ive looked at both reports and they indicate the following: 
A properly applied tanking system will withstand at least 6 or 7 bar of hydrostatic 
pressure, and the water from the burst water main would not have resulted in that 
much pressure and will not have affected the tanking system.
Neither surveyor was able to identify, with any certainty, where the water entered the 
cellar and each identified different, possible entry points  under the radiator and in 
the back corner of the cellar. 
Both surveyors agreed that no further drying of the cellar was required.
Both surveyors agreed the tanking appeared to be in good condition.
There is a considerable amount of moisture behind the tanking and the tanking is 
holding this back.
The first surveyor did not recommend replacing the tanking. 
The second surveyor recommended further investigation into the integrity of the 
tanking in the back corner of the cellar. 
One of the difficulties with this complaint is that the tanking in Mr Gs cellar was already in 
place when he bought the house. So the age of the tanking isnt known and no guarantee 
was transferred to Mr G. The pre flood condition of the tanking isnt known, except that the 
cellar was dry and waterproof prior to the flood and this means the tanking was holding back 
normal levels of water from entering the cellar. And from what Ive seen, this is what the 
tanking is still doing. I say this because the second expert report indicates that there is a 
good deal of water currently behind the tanking and this isnt entering Mr Gs property. 
Given all of the information above, Im satisfied that prior to the water leak, the tanking had 
been working under normal conditions. And now that the cellar has been dried out, it 
continues to work under normal conditions. The surveyor who specialises in cellar 
waterproofing said the hydrostatic pressure wasnt enough to compromise the tanking. So 
while I understand that the tanking has clearly allowed water into the property when the pipe 
burst, Im satisfied that its more likely than not the water from the burst main did not damage 
the tanking and so RSA acted fairly when it turned down Mr Gs claim in relation to having 
the tanking replaced.
I know that Mr G believes that water might have entered his property behind a built-in 
cupboard in the cellar and he is keen to have this investigated further. But I dont intend to 
ask RSA to pay for another survey because, as I said, Im satisfied theyve acted fairly in 
turning down Mr Gs claim. But if Mr G decides to ask an expert to look into this matter 
further, and if the results of the survey suggest that any loss or damage has occurred as a 
result of the flooding, then I would expect RSA to consider Mr Gs claim again. 
Mr G was also unhappy at being asked to pay the policy excess of £150, if he accepts the 
settlement amount offered by RSA in relation to replacing the built-in cupboard and 
redecorating the cellar. I understand that Mr G is not at fault in any way for whats happened 
to his home and so it must be frustrating to be told he needs to pay any amount of money to 
set this right. But most insurance policies require consumers to pay an excess when a claim is made and this is irrespective of whether they are at fault for what has happened or not. So 
I dont think it would be fair to ask RSA not to deduct the excess from the settlement amount. 
I know my decision is going to disappoint Mr G, but I could only ask RSA to take further 
action if I thought it had acted unfairly when it turned down his claim and Im satisfied it 
didnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman