DRN-2434157
The complaint
Mr P complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Western 
Circle Limited, trading at the time as Cashfloat. Mr P says he was lent to irresponsibly and 
the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Cashfloat throughout this decision.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in November 2020, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should be partially upheld. And I asked both parties to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I previously explained, my intention was to uphold the complaint from the point of loan 
number 5, rather than 4, as our adjudicator had recommended. In addition to this, I said an 
emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 7 onwards was clear, where 
Mr P was borrowing regularly to address a shortfall in his income and to meet an ongoing 
need. 
It seems neither party wants to send in any new information or arguments in response to my 
provisional decision. So, theres no reason for me to change the findings I previously set out.
 
Putting things right
Cashfloat should:  
A. refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on all loans from 5 - 12;
B. pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
C. pay Mr P the total of A plus B;
D. remove any adverse information Cashfloat has recorded on Mr Ps credit file 
in relation to loans 5 and 6;
E. the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 7 - 12 should be 
completely removed from Mr Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ps complaint and I direct Western Circle Limited to pay the 
compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman