DRN-3617491
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the estate of Ms G. It is submitted that Red Dot (Cymru) Ltd 
(Red Dot) failed to accurately record her medical information when assisting with an 
application for term assurance in 2017. As a result, the estate has not been able to make a 
full valid claim under the policy, instead the payment was reduced by the insurer.  
What happened
The estate of Ms G is represented by her son, Mr R. Ms G had an existing life assurance 
policy with a different insurer. However, in September 2017 she liaised by telephone with 
Secure for Life Ltd and took out a policy with a significantly lower monthly premium of £11 
per month. Her previous policy had cost over £50 per month. Red Dot takes responsibility for 
the actions of Secure for Life so I will refer to the business as Red Dot hereafter. 
In 2021, Ms G sadly passed away due to Covid-19. Mr R made a life assurance claim but it 
was adjusted by the insurer from £11,300 to £5,310. This was a proportionate remedy 
payment because the insurer said it did not have Ms Gs accurate medical information 
disclosed to it when the application was made via Red Dot in 2017. If it had received the 
right information, Ms Gs policy would have cost more. 
In February 2022, Mr R lodged the complaint with this service. He said it took many months 
before the matter was passed to Red Dot to address, and it had stalled in supplying any 
evidence to him.  
In June 2022, Red Dot rejected the complaint. It said it didnt have a copy of the September 
2017 sales call but a further call had been placed where Ms G had said she checked the 
documents which were correct. This wasnt the case though, as in addition to medical 
information she had given an incorrect date of birth and email address. While it sympathised 
with Mr R, the quote for new insurance had been on a non-advised basis, and so Red Dot 
had to rely on what Ms G said. It wasnt therefore liable for the reduction in the claim value.  
An investigator from this service considered the complaint but didnt think it should succeed. 
He said though the sales call could not be located, there was other information from the time 
of the sale showing that Ms G had been sent a copy of her answers to the medical questions 
by the insurer. And there was further evidence on a different call to Red Dot where Ms G 
confirmed she had read the letter and the contents were accurate. So he did not think it 
could be held accountable for any errors discovered at a later date.  
Mr R made a number of further comments. He said:
he was disappointed that the sales call could not be located;
his mother had told him she had been on the phone with Red Dots call handler for 
over an hour, explaining to him the extent of her conditions and reading out the 
names of medications;
he feels that Red Dot took advantage of Ms G being vulnerable and having a lack of 
experience in insurance matters;
as previously stated, Ms G already had a perfectly adequate policy in force;
the call handler assured Ms G that he would cut costs;
but, Ms G hadnt ever sent her insurer paperwork back and it is his belief that she did 
not realise what she had agreed to;
a telephone call shouldnt override the paperwork;
as a broker, Red Dot ought to have ensured Ms G was accompanied when taking out 
the cover;
he feels that Red Dots practices ought to be scrutinised.  
Our investigator would not change his view. He said that it was a non-advised sale; the onus 
was on Ms G to make sure the policy was suitable for her needs. Red Dots responsibility 
was to arrange the cover as a broker and provide Ms G with information to make an 
informed decision. It could not be held responsible for any errors in medical disclosures. 
Mr R said he still disagreed. He felt brokers like Red Dot were acting in discriminatory ways 
without recourse. Ms G had merely wanted a better deal but did not appreciate the 
ramifications of doing so, without appropriate support.  He asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Gs passing and I send my condolences to Mr R. I realise he feels 
strongly about this matter. However, I am also of the view that this complaint cannot 
succeed. Ill give my reasons for this below.  
Its important to note here that the insurers decision to pay a proportionate claim payment is 
not something I can review in the context of this decision  the insurer is a separate 
business. This complaint is about the actions of the broker, for which Red Dot now takes 
responsibility. 
I do not doubt Ms Gs intention was to replicate the cover she originally held for a lower price 
 and the brokers role was to establish Ms Gs requirement and seek appropriate cover from 
the open market to propose to her. It did this, and based on her answers the policy was 
cheaper. It issued a summary of demands and needs to Ms G explaining how no advice 
had been given to her, and she needed to decide if the policy was suitable for her needs. 
However, what the broker couldnt do was answer Ms Gs medical questions. For that 
reason, it set out in the same document that you should ensure all information that is or may 
be relevant to the application is disclosed to the provider on the application form. Failure to 
disclose information, or accurate information could result in the provider not accepting a 
claim.
I recognise that it simply isnt possible to know what Ms G and the adviser discussed. Sadly, 
the call isnt available. I know thats frustrating for Mr R. But this service isnt a regulator  
that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. For the same reason, though I know Mr R 
has asked us to do so, I cant look at the impact of broker operations or inspect practices.  
We provide informal dispute resolution on the evidence that is available. And, even if 
information from the call hadnt properly been recorded (for whatever reason), a copy of the 
application was issued in full to Ms G. That was undertaken by the insurer, not the broker.  
In addition, Ms G told Red Dot that the application was correct. On balance, Ive not seen 
any evidence which would suggest that Red Dot caused the failure to provide accurate answers which led to the insurer concluding a misrepresentation took place in the 2017 
application. Nor have I seen clear evidence to suggest Ms G was unable to advocate for 
herself, noting that her application included other disclosures of specific medical information.  
I know Mr R says that Ms G hadnt returned the insurers paperwork, which to him indicated 
that she may not have understood what it required. That letter (dated 5 September 2017) 
asked Ms G to:
Please check your form carefully
If you need to make a claim, we want to pay out. To help us do that, you need to 
make sure everything youve told us is correct and complete. 
If theres anything incorrect, missing or misleading, we may not be able to pay out in 
the future. So please take the time to check your application form carefully.  
I find that requirement to be set out clearly. However, the letter also said that:
If we dont hear from you by 6 November 2017, well assume all the information 
youve given us is fully complete and correct.
Therefore, there wasnt necessarily an onus on Ms G to sign and return the paperwork  she 
only had to do so if information or corrections were required. Since this did not happen, the 
insurer did not have a full picture to ascertain the cost of Ms Gs insurance premium, and so 
it reduced the sum assured when Mr R came to make a claim on behalf of Ms Gs estate. 
Red Dot could not have control over Ms G checking the application for accuracy. And the 
reason the insurer writes to the applicant with a copy of their answers is to provide a failsafe, 
as human error can occur. So, even if I concluded that the call handler did not properly 
record Ms Gs medical information (which I do not), Ms G also had responsibility to review 
her answers to all the questions, as her medical history was known by her and not Red Dot. 
My final decision
I know this wont be the answer Mr R has hoped for, but I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman