DRN-4439076
Complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Audi 
Financial Services) unfairly entered into a hire-purchase agreement with him. Hes said that 
the monthly payments to this agreement were unaffordable and he therefore shouldnt have 
been lent to. 
Mr M is being assisted with his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
Background
In January 2019, Audi provided Mr M with finance for a new car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £39,314.80. Mr M paid a deposit of £6,001.00 and took out a 49-month hire-
purchase agreement with Audi for the remaining £31,313.80. 
The loan had interest charges of £4,802.62 and a £10 option to purchase fee. This meant 
that the total amount to be repaid of £38,126.42 (not including the £6,001.00 deposit) was 
due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £466.54 and one optional final repayment, of 
£14,732.50, which included the £10 option to purchase fee.
Mr M, via his CMC, complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never 
have been provided to him. Audi didnt uphold the complaint. As far as it is concerned, its 
checks confirmed that the finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Audi had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Audi needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is that 
Audi needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending 
was sustainable for Mr M before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Audi says it agreed to this application after Mr M provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr M which had shown Mr M limited existing 
credit. And when payments to the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ms living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income, the monthly payments for this agreement 
were affordable. 
On the other hand, Mr M says that these payments were unaffordable and there was no way 
he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr M and Audi have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Audi carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable not to take steps to verify 
what Mr M had said about his living costs (he said he was living at home with parents) given 
the amount of the monthly payments and how long Mr M was expected to make them for. 
As Audi didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think Audi is more 
likely than not to have found out had it obtained further information from Mr M. Bearing in 
mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would 
have expected Audi to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Ms regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
The information Mr M has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular 
living expenses and the credit commitments on any credit search carried out were deducted 
from his monthly income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr Ms CMC says that this ignores Mr M was repaying a loan to a family member which 
should be included as his committed expenditure. It further goes on to argue that it noticed 
these payments by reviewing Mr Ms bank statements so Audi would have seen this if it had 
asked for copies of Mr Ms bank statements, as it ought to have. It finally says that it isnt a 
consumers obligation to ensure that the regulators guidance in CONC 5.3A is followed.
Ive considered what the CMC has said. However, in my view, its arguments here 
demonstrate a clear misunderstanding of the rules and our approach when considering 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending cases. In the first instance, it is CONC 5.2A which 
concerns the requirements regarding creditworthiness and affordability checks. And this 
section of CONC contains rules as well as guidance.
In any event and more importantly, there isnt anything within CONC 5.2A that requires a 
prospective lender to obtain copies of bank statements from a customer. We sometimes 
request and consider bank statements from complainants in order to get any idea of the 
amount they were spending where that might be missing from a lenders check on 
expenditure, or which might not have even been covered, should we determine a lenders 
checks before lending werent reasonable or proportionate. But we dont look at bank 
statements because we say a lender ought to have obtained them and consider them when 
determining whether to lend to a prospective borrower.In this case, what I need to think about here is what did Audi need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Ms actual 
regular living expenses. I dont need to consider what Mr M may have been paying towards 
credit repayments bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the credit 
search. 
A lender is entitled to rely on the results of a credit search when determining a prospective 
borrowers credit commitments. And as most customers wont owe money to family or 
friends in this way, I wouldnt expect a lender to ask about this.
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that I find the CMCs argument that if hed been 
asked, Mr M would have declared the payments he was making to a family member 
implausible. I say this because Mr M was looking for Audi to approve his finance application 
here as he clearly wanted the purchase the vehicle that he had chosen and Ive not seen 
anything to indicate that he had access to another source of funding. 
Furthermore, at the time of sale, Mr M confirmed a declaration that the loan payments were 
affordable to him and that he didnt expect changes to his income or expenditure for the 
duration of the agreement. Given Mr M answered yes to this, presumably knowing about his 
ability, or inability, to make his payments, its difficult for me to accept that he would have 
declared loan payments to a family member, which the lender couldnt have found about and 
might have made the loan appear unaffordable, if asked about this.  
Bearing in mind all of this and Mr Ms family loan would not have shown on any credit search 
carried out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair and reasonable (or in keeping with our 
approach to determining complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending) for me to 
now include these payments when determining what a proportionate check is more likely 
than not to have shown Audi.
As the rest of the information provided suggests that Mr Ms overall living expenses were 
low, because he was living at home with parents and not paying rent or other associated 
costs, Im satisfied that further checks are unlikely  and certainly less likely than not  to 
have dissuaded Audi from lending. In my view, further checks to validate what Mr M had 
declared about his living situation (and by reasonable extension his living costs) would 
merely have verified what hed said. And Mr Ms low living costs are likely to have made 
these monthly repayments appear affordable. 
I accept Mr Ms actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than he let on. For 
example, he was making the payments to a family member to repay money hed borrowed.  I 
also know that Mr Ms debts elsewhere increased and that he did get into difficulty with his 
credit commitments later in 2020 and had accounts which defaulted in 2021. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that Audi could 
possibly be expected to have known that this would happen  especially bearing in mind the 
unprecedent events and the ongoing effects of that year. It could only have made a decision 
based on what it knew, or it was likely to find out if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
  
And having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Audis checks before 
entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr M did go far enough, Im satisfied that 
carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped Audi from providing 
these funds, or entering into this agreement with him. So Im satisfied that Audi didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr M when it agreed to provide the funds.Overall and having carefully considered everything Mr M has said, I dont think that Audi 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him. So Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and at least consider that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman