DRN-3381815
The complaint
Mr B referred his complaint to us in May 2021. In it, he mainly said:
On 26 October 2020 he gave an investment instruction to an adviser with whom he 
had a client/adviser relationship spanning around 30 years, who had moved firms 
during that period (maintaining him as a client) and who had moved to, and was with, 
Succession Wealth Management Ltd (trading as Succession Wealth (SW)) at the 
time. SW/the adviser serviced his pension/Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
The adviser was instructed to use part of uninvested cash in the SIPP, which he had 
recently become aware of, to invest in two specific stocks.
Execution of his instruction was suspended because SW was moving its business to 
a new investment platform (from Nucleus to Transact) at the time. He was told this 
would take four to five weeks and that his pension account(s) with SW (on the 
Nucleus platform) had to be moved, in specie, with the transfer. As such, the 
uninvested cash had to remain uninvested during the transfer process. He was not 
offered the choice to opt out of the transfer or to have the investments executed 
before it happened.
The transfer was delayed, despite his chasing for progress and updates. He could 
and did not make the planned investments until April 2021. He holds SW responsible 
for the loss of profit he would have made in the investments between October 2020, 
when they should have been made (but were not made) and April 2021, when they 
were eventually made.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should be upheld, but 
only on the same basis that SW had upheld it and proposed settlement of it. She mentioned 
Mr Bs communication with the adviser on 26 October and the advisers reply the following 
day, then she mainly said:
The advisers recommendation report was issued to Mr B on 20 November 2020 
(advising, with stated reasons, the move of his two Nucleus platform pension 
accounts to Transact); on 9 December he signed the application for the transfer; 
Transact received his application and the two in specie account transfer instructions 
on 17 December; by 30 December the new Transact platform account had been set 
up, but there was a problem between Nucleus (the ceding platform) and Transact 
(the receiving platform) with regards to the in specie transfers; SW played an 
intermediary role in trying to resolve this and by 30 March most of the uninvested 
cash was received in the Transact account.
The rationale behind the transfer of Mr Bs accounts from Nucleus to Transact was 
clearly presented to him in SWs recommendation and was agreed. Furthermore, 
Nucleus did not allow direct client access for investments, so he had to go through 
SW. It was reasonable, in the circumstances, for the adviser to believe Mr B intended 
to have such access, in order to be able to trade in his own account. Therefore, it 
was also reasonable for the adviser to recommend transfer of the Nucleus accounts 
to Transact, as Transact allowed for direct client access.
Due to office access issues SW was unable, until 11 January 2021, to meet 
Transacts request (of 30 December 2020) for the original in specie transfer 
documents  as they could not be accessed through Origo (the online pensions 
transfer service). That was unfortunate, but overall there is no evidence that SW was 
responsible for any unnecessary or avoidable delays. The transfer happened 
between Nucleus and Transact. On its part, SW followed its procedures in a timely 
manner and chased for progress on several occasions. As the transfers were in 
specie, Mr B was not out of the market whilst it happened.
SW acknowledges that the transfer was prioritised over an Annual Planning Meeting 
(APM) that was supposed to happen in January 2021, and that had that meeting 
taken place and if, thereafter, steps were taken to make investments with the cash 
they could have been made by 2 February 2021. Those steps would have been 
necessary because Nucleus would have required SWs recommendation of the 
investments in order for them to be executed, so the process for a recommendation 
report would have followed the APM and this date is the earliest on which the 
investments could have been made. As compensation to Mr B, in this context, SW 
has offered him 8% interest on the relevant cash from 2 February 2021 to 30 March 
2021 (when the cash was eventually available in the Transact account). This is a fair 
and reasonable remedy for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with the above outcome and provided comments on the investigators 
findings, including his view that she had not addressed the core issues in his complaint. SW 
provided responses to additional enquiries made by the investigator. She then added the 
following main findings:
She referred to Mr Bs assertion that he was never told his funds would be 
inaccessible for investing during the transfer, and that had he known that he would 
have made the investments before the transfer. She clarified that the specific 
investments could not have been made prior to the transfer  because they were not 
within SWs matrix of investments, it did not provide an execution only service so it 
would not have simply executed instructions from Mr B and, because they were not 
within SWs matrix, the likelihood was that the adviser would not have been permitted 
to recommend them. The investigator also noted that Mr Bs email of 26 October 
could not have amounted to an investment instruction, given its lack of details and 
because SW did not provide a service in which instructions were simply executed 
(investments first had to be recommended by SW before they were executed); and 
that the investments he sought to make could not have been made ahead of the 
transfer because they were not available on the previous platform (hence another 
reason for the transfer).
In response to Mr Bs comment about the adviser previously executing his 
instructions within a couple of days, she noted that his service to Mr B prior to moving 
to SW was probably different from the strictly advice based service provided by SW; 
and SW did not provide an execution only service.
She noted the absence of telephone recording evidence to support Mr Bs claim that 
he was told the transfer would take four to five weeks, but said there is attendance 
note evidence for a telephone conversation between the parties in March 2021 which 
says he had been told the process would probably take about 12 weeks. Mr B maintained his disagreement with the investigators findings, and maintained his view 
that she had misdirected herself in the complaint. He said the main issue in his complaint is 
that his money was  moved from one platform to another platform without [his] prior 
knowledge, approval or instruction and that the matter of whether (or not) SW could 
act/would have acted on his instruction is secondary to this.
The case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Available evidence establishes, in the main, as follows:
Mr Bs email to the adviser of 26 October said  
I am already looking forward to our January meeting  we will have something to talk 
about!! 
Just realised that I am sitting on £70,000 cash with you, crazy! Do you want to leave 
enough for the next couple of years of fees and split the balance between Fundsmith 
Equity and Lindsell Train  two old hardies. 
If you aheave different opinion  shout!
The reasonable conclusion from the above is that the email was not an investment 
instruction at the time. Mr B expressly sets the context as the meeting (the APM) that 
was scheduled for January 2021; he then refers to the uninvested cash and names 
the two investments as the subjects he was looking forward to discussing at the 
meeting. Further support for this conclusion, is the fact that he invited the adviser to 
give a different opinion if he had one and, as the investigator noted, the absence of 
any specific investment instruction details. These add to my finding that this email 
was not an instruction to execute the investments at the time. If it was, specific 
details (including confirmation of when Mr B wanted the investments to be made) 
would have been present, there probably would have been no context of a discussion 
around three months away (in January) and the email would not have invited a 
different opinion (if any) from the adviser.
Mr B has made clear to us that he was/is a very experienced investor of many (nearly 
50) years. As I said above, he had around 30 years experience of making 
investments with the adviser (most of which was prior to the advisers move to SW, 
which appears to have been around late 2017). He has also referred to his past 
investment execution instructions having been actioned by the adviser within 24 to 48 
hours. He would have known how to give the adviser a direct execution only 
instruction if that is what he intended to do. The email quoted above does not show 
that was his intention.
The above finding(s) addresses and defeats the notion that SW/the adviser wrongly 
failed to execute Mr Bs investment instruction of 26 October 2020, there appears to 
have been no such instruction.
The adviser and Mr B spoke to each other the day after his email of 26 October. 
There does not appear to be a recording of this conversation but, helpfully, the 
advisers email to Mr B of 27 October refers to, and summarises, it. I have not seen evidence that Mr B objected to the summary at the time, so I consider it reliable. The 
advisers email included the following  
As discussed, I think that the best solution given that you cannot trade directly on 
the Nucleus Platform is to switch Platforms. We have undertaken extensive due 
diligence to determine our most favoured Platforms and one of these is Transact 
which will accommodate direct dealing.
I will need to put a recommendation report together  including a charge 
comparison with Nucleus so that you can then complete the necessary paperwork. 
We will look to transfer in specie to retain the portfolio as it is and this will also 
retain the cash holding for now.
 although this will take some time, we will be in a better position once it has taken 
place 
The alternative is to prepare a report every time you wish to undertake a switch on 
the Nucleus Platform which is laborious for both you and us but is a necessity  
where clients cannot trade directly.
The reasonable conclusion from the above is that Mr B was fully informed on the day 
after his email of 26 October. I acknowledge that SWs formal recommendation report 
followed in the month thereafter (November) but the advisers email above already 
set out to him the key points. Those key points included notice (and/or a reminder) of 
SWs strict advisory service and of the Nucleus platform not permitting direct dealing, 
both combining to require a report every time he wished to undertake a switch; their 
discussion in which the absence of direct dealing on the Nucleus platform was the 
prompt for considering the platform transfer; that, based on SWs due diligence, the 
Transact platform was deemed suitable for such direct dealing; and that the in specie 
transfer process would take some time but would put both parties in a better position 
once completed.
The above addresses Mr Bs assertion that the main prompt for the transfer of his 
pension account(s) to Transact was SWs change of business to a new platform. The 
above does not support his claim, instead it shows that the main prompt was 
subjective to him, to the unsuitability of the Nucleus platform for the direct dealing he 
had discussed with the adviser and to the suitability of the Transact platform for that 
purpose. It also shows that he had full prior knowledge of what was about to happen 
and that the process was likely to take time. The former defeats his claim about the 
transfer happening without his prior knowledge. 
The latter shows he was made aware the process would be a lengthy one. His 
reference to being told four to five weeks appears to be sincere, and I have noted an 
email from him to the adviser in January 2021 in which he mentioned the same. 
However, the salient point is that the transfer was between Nucleus and Transact, 
SW was no more than an intermediary, and the time over which the process was to 
take depended on Nucleus and Transact, not SW. SW had no control over any 
timescale and was not bound by any timescale. I have seen evidence that it chased 
progress in the process and complained to Transact, on Mr Bs behalf, with regards 
to the delay. I have also seen Transacts reply to that complaint, in which they offered 
Mr B £150 as an apology for the trouble he was caused. Overall, on balance and 
given its limited intermediary role, I do not consider SW can reasonably be expected 
to have done more than it did in the process. In addition, I note that Mr B has clarified 
that his complaint is not about whether (or not) SW caused delays in the transfer 
process.Having had, on 27 October, prior notice of what was about to happen I have not seen 
evidence that he replied to object to any part of what was presented by the adviser. 
As the investigator said, he was then issued with a recommendation report in 
November 2020 and he signed the transfer application on 9 December 2020. 
Transact received his application thereafter and the process began. These facts 
defeat his claim that the transfer happened without his prior approval, the opposite 
was the case. I consider that the idea of a prior instruction from him to transfer to 
Transact  which he has also argued  was redundant given the circumstances as 
they were. Those circumstances being  his conversation with and email from the 
adviser on 27 October which presented the basis for the transfer recommendation, 
the absence of any objection from him (implying his agreement), his receipt of the 
recommendation report thereafter (again without any objection from him in response) 
and then his signing of the transfer application thereafter. 
Mr B seems to have argued that had he been given notice that the uninvested cash 
would be inaccessible during the transfer he would have made the specific 
investments before the transfer. The facts do not support this. He had prior notice, on 
27 October, that the transfer would be in specie. It was not so much a matter of the 
cash being inaccessible, it was a matter of his inability to deal directly on the Nucleus 
platform, prior to and during the transfer. As the adviser told him, on the same date, 
the alternative was for SW to produce a report for every switch he sought. Having 
been told about this option (a report for a switch at the time), I have not seen 
evidence that he responded to say he wanted to exercise it, so it cannot fairly be said 
that it was concealed from him or that he was prevented from using it. SWs 
settlement offer to him is somewhat based on this option, in the context of the APM in 
January 2021, and I address this separately below.
One of Mr Bs submissions to us says  The fact that I couldnt trade directly with 
Nucleus was not an issue for, I personally had never experienced any problems 
when trading with them. However, the advisers summary of their discussion on 27 
October states otherwise and, on the basis of that discussion, of the advisers email 
of the same date and of the recommendation report in November  all of which 
referred to the same objective for the transfer of his account(s) to Transact  
evidence says he sought direct dealing elsewhere because it was not available with 
Nucleus. As I said above, he signed the transfer application in December in this 
context.
Further to, and where not addressed in, the above, I broadly endorse the investigators 
findings on the other issues in the complaint for the reasons she gave. I consider that my 
treatment of the issues above covers the core points of the complaint.
Putting things right
SW accepts that its adviser held the discussion with Mr B earlier than the APM scheduled for 
January 2021 in order address the platform issue (and then transfer issue) at the time; and 
that had the transfer not been prioritised over the APM and had the APM taken place on 4 
January 2021, it is possible that investment of the uninvested cash could have happened by 
2 February 2021 (allowing for the full recommendation process that would have been 
required). 
SW says it cannot be certain about what Mr B would have wanted to invest the cash in 
around this time and around 30 March 2021, when most of the cash had been transferred. 
However, it has offered settlement to Mr B based on 8% interest on the cash between 2 
February 2021 (when it could have been invested) and 30 March 2021 (when it was eventually available to Mr B for investment).
Like the investigator, I consider this a fair settlement and I endorse it. The planned APM in 
January 2021 is not disputed and that is where Mr B initially sought to discuss investment of 
the uninvested cash  as his email of 26 October says. The idea of allowing around a month 
from the APM, up to 2 February 2021, for the full requisite recommendation process and for 
arrangements to access the cash and then invest, does not strike me as unreasonable. I 
also consider that the use of interest at the rate of 8% (simple, per year), to compensate for 
potential lost performance, is reasonable in the circumstances of this case where it is not 
certain  and cannot be determined, on the balance of probability  what Mr B would have 
invested in on or around 2 February 2021. Given market movements and changing events, it 
cannot be safely assumed that his investment sentiments in October 2020 would have been 
exactly the same in February 2021. I have considered the alternative of using a market 
benchmark, but in the absence of a recommendation exercise at the specific time and for the 
specific purpose, I do not have enough information on what his profile would have been, in 
order to consider a benchmark to match that profile. Overall and on balance, the proposal 
from SW is fair and reasonable.
For the sake of concluding the matter and of clarity, I uphold the complaint only on the above 
basis and I order SW to carry out the redress it has proposed, and to do so on the following 
basis:
Calculate interest on the uninvested cash in the SIPP/Nucleus account(s) that 
features in this complaint, and do so at the rate of 8% simple per year from 4 January 
2021 to 2 February 2021. [the compensation amount]
Pay Mr B the compensation amount that results from the calculation.
If this payment is not made to Mr B within 28 days of SW being notified of his 
acceptance of this decision (should he accept it), then SW must pay him additional 
interest on the compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date 
of this decision to the date the payment is made/settled. This is to compensate Mr B 
for any undue delay by SW in paying the compensation amount.
Provide a calculation of the compensation to Mr B in a clear and simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint but only on the basis of the 
settlement proposed to him by Succession Wealth Management Ltd trading as Succession 
Wealth. I order Succession Wealth Management Ltd trading as Succession Wealth to 
calculate and pay him compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman