DRN-3977414
The complaint
Mr T complains that Skipton Building Society recorded a search on his credit file.
What happened
Mr T says he attended a Skipton branch to discuss savings rates. He says prior to an 
appointment he noticed Skipton had carried out a soft search on his credit file. Mr T says 
Skipton paid him £100 compensation but says that doesnt go far enough for the distress he 
was caused. He says one Credit Reference Agency (CRA) was still reporting the search 
after it ought to have been removed and says his personal data has been incorrectly shared.
Skipton accepts it made a mistake and says it paid £100 compensation. It says it has 
requested the soft search be removed from Mr Ts credit file and has offered a further £50 
compensation.
Mr T had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator accepted a mistake had been made but didnt think Mr T suffered any financial 
loss and thought a soft search had limited visibility or impact. The investigator thought £150 
compensation appropriate and explained that it was not our role to decide if there had been 
a breach of personal data rules.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says the compensation doesnt go far enough. He has 
confirmed his credit file has now been correctly updated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Skipton has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by updating Mr Ts credit file and by offering an appropriate compensation 
amount. I make clear to Mr T, as the investigator has, that its not our role to punish a 
business or decide if there has been a data protection breach.
There is no doubt here that Skipton made a mistake by carrying out the soft search of Mr Ts 
credit file in advance of his appointment and without authority. I have no doubt Mr T was 
caused distress as a result and was caused inconvenience in checking his credit file to 
ensure the search had been removed. But I dont think Mr T suffered any financial loss and 
think that a soft search would have had a limited impact in any event.
For those reasons Im satisfied that Skipton should pay £150 compensation in total which I 
think is fair and reasonable and takes into account what I consider the relatively limited 
impact of its mistake. I also think that award is inline with the type and amount of awards we 
would normally order for this type of issue, that was resolved fairly swiftly and where it had a 
limited impact. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Skipton Building Society to pay Mr 
T a further £50 compensation in addition to the £100 compensation it has previously paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman