DRN-4121875
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt act 
to help protect it from making a payment to a scammer and that Barclays wont reimburse to 
it the money it lost because of the scam.
What happened
On 14 April 2022, G made on online payment from its Barclays account to pay an invoice it 
had received. The payment was for approximately £76,000 and was made to a recipient 
account based overseas  as per the details provided on the invoice. Unfortunately, its now 
understood that fraudsters had intercepted a genuine invoice bound for G and had sent G a 
copy of that invoice with the payee details changed. This meant that when G paid the invoice 
from its Barclays account, it was unknowingly sending the money to the fraudsters. 
On 18 April 2022, the overseas recipient bank contacted Barclays and explained that it 
strongly suspected that an instance of fraud may have occurred. Barclays confirmed receipt 
of the message to the overseas bank and attempted to contact G. Barclays received 
confirmation from G that a scam had occurred the next day, on 19 April 2022, and relayed 
this information to the overseas bank. However, no money was able to be recovered from 
the recipient account. G wasnt happy about this, so it raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to G and said it didnt feel it had acted unfairly by processing the 
payment as it had. Barclays explained that this was because the payment itself wasnt 
unusual in the context of how G used and managed its Barclays account and also because 
Barclays didnt feel that G had taken reasonable action to mitigate against what happened, 
such as by contacting the business listed on the invoice by a known contact number to 
confirm if the payee account details given on the invoice were correct. G wasnt happy with 
Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. G remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding its 
complaint. Id like to thank G for these submissions, and I hope it doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if G notes that I havent addressed a specific point its raised, it shouldnt be 
taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
considered all the submissions provided by both G and Barclays. Rather, it should be taken 
that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly in this 
letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law in circumstances such as this is that a bank is 
expected to process payments that a customer instructs it to make. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer, either in full or in 
part, even though that customer authorised the payment.
In this instance, it isnt in dispute that G instructed Barclays to make the payment in 
question. But at the time G instructed the payment, it believed it was making it to the 
company listed on the invoice  to which G genuinely owed money. And G contend that 
Barclays could and fairly should have done more to have mitigated against what happened 
here, including that Barclays should have provided some form of warning to G that it may 
have been in the process of being scammed before allowing the payment to go through.
Accordingly, Ive asked myself whether I feel that Barclays should, from the information 
available to it, have recognised that the payment in question might have been suspicious 
such that some form of intervention might have been merited before it processed the 
payment as instructed.
Having reviewed Gs Barclays account statements for the period surrounding this payment, 
Im satisfied that the payment instruction itself wasnt unusual or out of line with other 
payments that G regularly made. Notably, G made several similarly sized payments to other 
overseas recipients around this time. And so, I dont feel that there wasnt anything in the 
size or nature of the payment itself which should have reasonably given Barclays any cause 
to consider the payment as being unusual for G or which should have reasonably stopped 
them from processing the payment at Gs instruction.
Additionally, while payments to domestic recipients are often subject to a confirmation of 
payee check, no such checks are presently in place for payments to overseas recipients. 
This meant that Barclays processed the payment on the basis of the account details 
provided by G, and so werent aware  and werent reasonably expected to have been 
aware  that the account details and account name didnt match until they were later 
contacted by the recipient bank who advised them as such.
G also believes that Barclays, having been contacted by the recipient bank which told 
Barclays that it felt a scam may be occurring, didnt then act quickly enough to confirm to the 
recipient bank that a scam had taken place. 
But I havent seen anything in the information and evidence available which suggests that 
Barclays instructed the overseas recipient bank to release the money in question to its 
account holder. Rather, Barclays acknowledged the message from the recipient bank and 
then confirmed the scam with G before relaying that information to the recipient bank  
which happened the day after the initial message from the recipient bank was received. Barclays seeking to confirm matters with G before providing a full response to the recipient 
bank doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and so I dont feel that Barclays did act unfairly or in 
a manner that unreasonably contributed towards G being unable to recover its money from 
the recipient bank as G suggests.
All of which means that, while I sympathise with G regarding what happened here, I wont be 
upholding its complaint against Barclays. This is because I dont feel that Barclays should 
have reasonably had any cause  from the information available to it  to have considered 
the payment in question to have been potentially untoward or suspicious such that Barclays 
shouldnt have processed that payment as G instructed it to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman