DRN-3624824
The complaint
Mr S complains that he asked Landmark Mortgages Limited to remove a charge it left on 
part of his property, in error, but it failed to respond until he hired a litigation solicitor. Mr S 
wanted Landmark to pay for the costs and damages he felt it was responsible for.
What happened
Mr S told us when he purchased his home, over twenty years ago, the Land Registry noted
that a boundary fence was in a different position than its records showed. As the fence had
been in that position for a considerable number of years, Mr S was given possession of the
land. It was assigned its own title number, separate to the house and the rest of the garden.
Almost twenty years ago, Mr S remortgaged. The business which he moved his mortgage
from contacted the Land Registry then, and removed its charge from the main house. But it
failed to remove its charge on the triangle of land which was registered separately. This
charge has subsequently been moved to Landmark.
Mr S decided to move house, and in 2021 he had accepted an offer for this house. The
conveyancing solicitor noticed that there was still a charge on the small parcel of land Mr S
had been assigned years ago. The charge was in favour of Landmark, although Mr S hadnt
owed Landmark, or its predecessor business, any money for many years.
Mr S said that his conveyancing solicitor did her very best in contacting Landmark in order
for it to clear the charge. But he said Landmark simply did nothing about this problem for
months. Mr Ss sale was part of a chain, and everyone involved wanted to complete their
sales and purchases before the stamp duty reduction was removed. The deadline for that
was fast approaching. Mr S said he was in danger of either losing the sale or having to take
a price reduction because it looked like this deadline would be missed.
Mr S then instructed a litigation solicitor, who sent some correspondence to Landmark about
the financial losses Mr S anticipated, and suggested that Mr S might take court action to
recover those costs. Mr S said Landmark was then able to remove the charge.
Mr S said that because of the doubts as to whether his sale would go ahead, he wasnt able
to arrange and book a removal firm in good time. He had to make do with what he could get
closer to the time. He said his furniture was damaged by the people who helped him to
move, and he thought that this was because of the delay that Landmark had caused.
Mr S said he was also subject to extreme stress for some months, all because Landmark
and its predecessor had been derelict in their duties.
Mr S wanted Landmark to compensate him for his losses. Hed paid a solicitor £2,112.20,
just to pursue this issue, which was separate to the conveyancing fees. And he suffered
heavy damage to his furniture and appliances, as well as the stress.
Landmark accepted that there was an historic failure to remove the charge held at the Land
Registry. But it said it had no record of Mr S trying to contact it between February and May
2021. And it wouldnt pay the costs that Mr S wanted.
Our investigator didnt think Landmark had to pay all the costs Mr S wanted. He said both
sides accepted that the service provided by Landmark could have been better. Landmark
had acknowledged this and apologised.
Although Landmark didnt have a record of contact from Mr S between February and May
2021, Mr S had provided detailed notes from his conveyancer showing her attempts to get
Landmark to remove the charge. Our investigator thought it was most likely that she had
made multiple attempts, on Mr Ss behalf, to resolve the outstanding issue with Landmark.
Our investigator didnt think that meant Landmark had to pay Mr Ss costs though. He said it
was for Mr S to decide what to do when Landmark didnt respond, but he didnt think
instructing a litigation solicitor at significant cost was the only option. Mr S did that because
its what his conveyancing solicitors advised. Our investigator knew Landmark did then reply
to written correspondence from Mr Ss litigation solicitor, but he said he couldnt be sure that
Landmark wouldnt have replied to written correspondence from Mr S instead.
Our investigator said that the decision for Mr S to instruct a solicitor was ultimately out of the
control of Landmark, and he didnt think it had to pay.
Our investigator similarly thought that the damage to Mr Ss furniture was out of the control
of Landmark. It had no link to the removal company and didnt instruct them. He thought this
was the fault of the removal company, not of Landmark.
Our investigator said Landmark should pay Mr S £100 in compensation, to make up for the
distress and inconvenience that this matter caused.
Landmark agreed with that, but Mr S didnt. He said Landmark hadnt handled his situation
reasonably, and its incompetence is what caused the delay. An apology letter wasnt
enough, and a payment of £100 was insulting. Mr S said a payment of this size meant that
Landmark would just carry on as it was in future.
Mr S stressed that when he took the decision to hire a litigation solicitor, time was running
out. Landmark took months to finally decide that there was no charge. His conveyancer had
already pursued this for some time. Mr S didnt think our service could have resolved this in
time, and he didnt think the onus should have been on him to contact Landmark directly.
Our investigator said that this had been a difficult decision, and he had agreed with some of
the points Mr S made, but he still didnt change his mind about whether Landmark had to
pay the costs that Mr S wanted.
Mr S wrote again to say Landmark had sent him a cheque for £100. He didnt accept it, and
had returned it. He didnt think our service had taken account of the effect this had on him.
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: Mr S indicated, after the deadline our investigator set for him to comment further, that he 
wanted to make a statement for my consideration. This hasnt yet been received, over a 
month later. And I do feel I have sufficient information to decide this case now. But if Mr 
S wishes to comment further, he will be able to do so in response to this provisional 
decision.
When Mr S wrote to us with his complaint, he suggested the extended delay in replying 
might have been because Landmark asked for written correspondence, but didnt clarify 
that this only meant letters, and it wouldnt respond to emails. But it appears that Mr Ss 
conveyancing solicitor had complied with Landmarks communication preferences. 
Those notes confirm she was asked at the end of February 2021 to fax details of the 
initial enquiry, and did so in early March. Her notes also show she followed this up 
regularly and frequently, and Landmark told her repeatedly to wait. It was still saying this 
at the end of May.
Im not clear on why Landmark would have no record of these enquiries made on behalf 
of Mr S. But given that we have contemporaneous notes of these requests to remove 
the charge, made by a legal professional, I do think that its most likely they were made.
At the very end of May the deadline appeared to be looming for the end of the stamp 
duty reduction. And Mr S had been warned that if this deadline was missed, he faced 
either having to reduce the sale price, or losing his sale. He was also warned that if he 
did lose this sale, the property would be unlikely to achieve this sale price again. At this 
point, Mr Ss conveyancing solicitor had been regularly enquiring about removing the 
charge on the land for over three months, with no concrete response or indeed any 
timetable for a response.
Mr S stood to lose a large sum of money. He was in an unenviable position, and I think it 
was reasonable for him to think he needed to act.
In these circumstances, and at this point, I do not think it was unreasonable for Mr S to 
instruct a solicitor to act on his behalf. I note that Landmark then acted more quickly to 
do what Mr Ss conveyancing solicitor had asked for repeatedly, over a period of some 
months. It removed the charge that remained on Mr Ss land, and his sale was then able 
to go ahead.
I think Landmark should pay the costs of Mr Ss litigation solicitor, which amounted to 
£2,112.20.
Mr S said if we didnt make Landmark pay this, it would just do the same thing again in 
future. I ought to be clear that our service isnt a regulator. We dont fine or otherwise 
punish businesses, and its not the purpose of our awards to deter businesses from 
doing something again in future. So thats not why I currently propose to make this 
award.
I think its appropriate in this case to ask Landmark to reimburse Mr S for his costs, 
because I think it was a reasonable decision in these circumstances for Mr S to instruct 
a solicitor, and because I think that it was Landmarks repeated failures to respond to 
another legal professionals requests, over an extended period, which led to this.
I dont though, think its Landmarks fault that Mr S then ended up with a less 
experienced removals firm, and his furniture was damaged. I understand that Mr S 
thinks this only happened because of the delay Landmark caused. But what Mr S has 
described to me sounds more like negligence on the part of his removals firm. I dont think its fair and reasonable to hold Landmark responsible for that, so I dont think it has 
to pay for any resulting damage.
I do think its appropriate to make an award of compensation in this case. I understand 
that a house move is always stressful. And I also appreciate that Mr S did have the 
reassurance of solicitors acting for him, and seeking to ensure that either Landmark 
acted to remove the impediment to the sale, or that it would bear responsibility for his 
losses if its actions caused the sale to fall through. But I think that this issue would still 
have caused additional work, and additional concern, for Mr S. So, like our investigator, 
I think that Landmark should pay Mr S £100 in compensation.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S agreed with my decision. He said that he still thought Landmark hadnt taken its duties 
seriously. And he thought it had lied about not having any record of communications 
between February and May. Mr S said he was pleased that Id mentioned the work of his 
conveyancing solicitor, he felt shed done as much as she could, and it was very poor of 
Landmark to cast aspersions on her by suggesting it hadnt received her communications. 
Mr S also said he understood my point about the furniture damage and accepted my view.
Mr S said he wanted to know who the regulator was, for financial services. And he wanted to 
know what happened if Landmark didnt agree with my decision. 
The regulator for financial services is the Financial Conduct Authority. Ive explained that our 
service only looks into specific cases, and that we dont fine or punish businesses. But we do 
have powers to put things right, in individual cases. And my decision here will be legally 
binding on both Mr S and Landmark, if Mr S accepts it. Final decisions from this service are 
issued with supporting correspondence, which will explain this in a little more detail for Mr S.
Landmark also got in touch in response to my provisional decision, and it asked us to send 
evidence of the costs Mr S incurred, totalling £2,112.20. Our service sent this evidence to 
Landmark. It hasnt commented further, or asked for any extension of time in order to do so. 
As the deadline for responding to our service has now passed, I think it is now appropriate 
for me to reach a final decision in this case.
And I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Landmark Mortgages Limited must pay Mr S £2,112.20 to reimburse 
him for his costs, and £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman