DRN-4017793
The complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) passed his 
account to a debt collection agency (DCA) despite him requesting payment options to settle 
the account with AESEL directly over a period of time. 
What happened
Due to Mr G being in arrears on his AESEL account, he says he engaged with AESEL on 
several occasions requesting payment options to settle the outstanding balance over a 
period of time. Mr G says that they told him they were unable to discuss these options with 
him unless his circumstances changed. AESEL subsequently passed Mr Gs account to a 
DCA, without notifying him first. Mr G made a complaint to AESEL. Prior to the outcome of 
his complaint, AESEL sent Mr G a letter informing him that they were referring his account to 
an external DCA.
AESEL did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said during live chats between them and Mr 
G, he advised them he was waiting for a payment to pay to his account, but it was delayed. 
Mr G advised he could pay his account in full. AESEL said they can only discuss payment 
options if he was unable to make a payment to the account or if he was suffering from 
financial difficulty, but Mr G confirmed his circumstances were flexible at the moment and 
requested payment options. AESEL say they advised him that he would need to speak to 
their financial difficulties department as they would need more in-depth information regarding 
Mr Gs situation. They said there was no record that Mr G responded to them in relation to 
setting up a payment plan, so they wrote to him, to advise him his account had been 
cancelled and may be referred to a DCA. Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said AESEL appropriately advised Mr 
G of the consequences of not making the full payment to the account, prior to taking the 
actions detailed within the terms and conditions, which Mr G accepted at account opening. 
He said AESEL stated they cant discuss payment options via live chat, and this would need 
to be discussed in depth with the financial hardship team if Mr G couldnt make his payment 
in full, but Mr G acknowledges he didnt contact their financial hardship team, and he 
returned to the live chat instead on 22 July 2022, where the agent offers to discuss the 
issue, but Mr G didnt respond. Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement that Mr G entered into with his AESEL account. This states that 
he must repay the full amount he owes as shown on his statement each month. But due to 
Mr Gs circumstances he was unable to do so, therefore his account was in arrears. AESEL 
contacted Mr G via the chat facility on 13 July 2022, to inform him of the amount he owed 
them on 20 May 2022 and asked him if everything was ok. Mr G told the chat agent that he 
was awaiting a payment into his account which was delayed, but he was hoping to clear the 
account balance. He then asked what the payment options were available in the event it 
wasnt possible (to clear the account balance). The agent informed Mr G that they could only 
discuss the payment options in the event he wasnt able to make that payment. 
Mr G said he would like to know what the alternatives are and the chat agent said We have 
a financial hardship team that are available to discuss these things, but we need to have an 
in-depth conversation around your situation before we can disclose this information. So Im 
satisfied that the chat agent was clear why he was unable to give Mr G the alternatives to 
repaying the full outstanding balance  as they needed to have an in-depth conversation 
around his situation before disclosing this information. The chat was then disconnected. 
When Mr G was connected again he asked what the payment options would be in the event 
the entire balance cannot be cleared at once and the agent responded with I'm afraid as 
previously advised by my colleague you spoke with before myself at this time we are unable 
to discuss the information unless in the event that the payment cannot be paid in full. Mr G 
thanks the chat agent and the chat is disconnected. So Im satisfied that the second chat 
agent reiterated that they could only discuss these options if the payment couldnt be made 
in full. But Mr G doesnt continue the conversation here.
Mr G receives a final notice from AESEL, so he starts another chat conversation with 
AESEL. He said I have received a final notice from you guys so this is now a problem, I can 
pay the emount back but not in the time frame that you have allocated so what are the 
options here please. The chat agent says If you wish to discuss about your account then I 
will be glad to help. Please let me know. But Mr G doesnt respond to this message. It was 
on 15 August 2022 that he asks I would also like to discuss payment options for the 
outstandning amount on the account pls. The agent responds by saying With regard to a 
payment plan another team look after your account. Unfortunately they do not have a chat 
function. They can be contacted by (and he provides their contact details).
So while Mr G asked a number of times for the alternatives/payment plan options, he was 
told each time by AESEL that they need to discuss this with him if he couldnt make the full 
repayment. He was also given the contact details for the department who could assist him 
with this. But Ive been provided with no evidence to show Mr G contacted this department 
when they gave him the details. And that is why a payment plan wasnt discussed with Mr G.
I can also see AESEL sent letters to Mr Gs address. They sent a letter dated 17 July 2022, 
which informed him his account would be cancelled if the full payment was not made by 2 
August 2022. The letter also said that if he cant afford to make the payment then he should 
contact them, and the letter showed telephone numbers and opening hours. The letter said 
Please note that cancellation of your account will be reported to the credit bureau and may 
also result in your account being passed to a debt collection agency. So Im satisfied that 
AESEL gave Mr G the opportunity to speak to them before his account was closed, but he 
didnt ring them, so the account was closed. Therefore they would inform the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) of this. They also made him aware his account could be passed to a DCA. 
AESEL also sent Mr G a final demand letter dated 9 August 2022. This sets out that he will 
receive a letter from them regarding which DCA or AESEL department he would need to 
contact. The letter sets out that after a period of 28 days from the date of the letter steps 
may be taken to register the default status of his account with CRAs. It sets out that this 
may affect his ability to obtain further credit. So Im satisfied that AESEL set out the 
implications of him not repaying the sum owed to them here. 
The agreement Mr G entered into shows that AESEL may sell, transfer, or assign this 
agreement and your account. We may do so at any time without notifying you. So I cant 
say AESEL did anything wrong by assigning the agreement and his account to a DCA. 
Although the DCA passed the account back to AESEL and AESEL later passed Mr Gs account to a different DCA, they were within their rights to do so, therefore, I dont require 
AESEL to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman