DRN-2195085
The complaint
 Miss P has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly refused to pay her 
claim for the cancellation of her holiday under her travel insurance.
What happened
 Miss P was due to go on holiday with her partner who I shall call Mr R on 21 October 2018. 
She went on line to an aggregator website and bought her policy on 18 October 2018. She 
was the only person insured, as Mr R was insured elsewhere. 
On 19 October 2018 following a review, Mr R was admitted to hospital due to pleuritic chest 
pain and was advised he wasnt fit to fly. Consequently both he and Miss P cancelled their 
holiday. Miss P made a claim to Admiral under her policy.
On reviewing Mr Rs medical notes and history Admiral decided Mr Rs hospitalisation and 
consequent reason for Miss P cancelling her holiday was because he was suffering from a 
pre-existing medical condition. Its policy doesnt provide cover if the reason was due to pre-
existing medical conditions of a travelling companion.
Miss P complained but Admiral wouldnt change its stance. So she brought her complaint to 
us. The investigator was of the view it should be upheld. Admiral disagreed so Miss Ps 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its clear Mr R suffered from poorly controlled allergic and eosinophilic asthma and 
recurrent left side musculoskeletal sounding chest pain. 
Its also clear Miss Ps policy doesnt provide cover if the claim is related to the pre-
existing medical conditions of her travelling companion, here her partner Mr R.
Mr R attended for a review of his conditions and was admitted to hospital with this 
pleuritic chest pain causing the cancellation of the holiday and Miss Ps claim to 
Admiral. Mr Rs claim to his own travel insurer was paid.
However here Admiral decided that this pleuritic chest pain was a symptom of his 
pre-existing conditions and not a diagnosis. But Ive seen no evidence that due to Mr 
Rs pre-existing asthma condition, his pleuritic chest pain was linked. Clearly the 
pleuritic chest pain caused Mr R to be deemed unfit to fly, but I havent seen 
evidence of the link. No evidence has been presented that its the case that anyone 
with asthma can develop pleuritic chest pain consequently. I would also assume 
people with no asthma history can also develop pleuritic chest pain too. From an 
internet search, pleurisy appears to be caused by viral infection which would indicate 
its not limited to the pre-existing medical conditions from which Mr R suffered as it 
seemed Admirals medical team assumed.
Neither the doctor who told him not to fly, nor his GP much later in 2020 indicate the 
reason he was unable to fly was due to complications of his pre-existing conditions 
causing the pleuritic chest pain. His GP in 2020 goes so far as to say it was not 
related. Theres no other similar expert evidence before me to contradict this. 
Instead, within Admirals medical analysis of the Mr R notes, Ive seen many 
references to Mr R being the policyholder instead of Miss Ps travelling companion, 
and consequently many assumptions being made on the proximity of his asthma 
review being on 19 October 2018 from which he was hospitalised, with the policy 
having been bought on 18 October. I consider this understandably coloured matters 
and whilst the medical assessment teams instructions rightly explained Mr R was a 
third party, thats not borne out by the written comments of the medical assessment 
team. 
I appreciate and understand that Admiral didnt have the evidence from Mr Rs GP of 
2020 when it investigated and decided to refuse to pay this claim. However it 
provides a useful insight that even with the passage of time, Mr Rs issue in October 
2018 wasnt related to his pre-existing conditions. 
Therefore on balance I dont think Admiral came to a fair and reasonable decision in 
deciding that Mr Rs pre-existing conditions was the cause of him being deemed unfit to fly. 
Therefore I dont consider Admiral came to a fair and reasonable decision in deciding Miss 
Ps claim wasnt consequently covered by her policy. 
So I consider her claim should be paid subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy with interest.
  
My final decision
 For these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited do the following:
Pay Miss Ps claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of her policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the first date of its decision to refuse to pay 
her claim to the date it now does so. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Miss P for HMRC purposes. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman