DRN-4036582
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) handled 
his request for help to recover money hed paid for services he was unable to use due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr M was due to fly abroad with his family in April 2020. Whilst there he wanted to visit some 
of the main tourist attractions and bought four attraction passes in January 2020 using his 
Virgin Money credit card. The passes were supplied by a third party, who Ill refer to as N. 
They could be used at any time during the 12 months following purchase, and they were 
valid for three consecutive days after first use. 
Unfortunately, after Mr M had bought the passes, the planned holiday was impacted by 
restrictions imposed on the flights and at the destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. N 
told Mr M it wouldnt provide a refund, but it did extend the starting date of the passes by a 
further 12 months. This wasnt acceptable for Mr M, as he said it wasnt going to be possible 
for the family to travel together again in that time. He asked his insurance company to help, 
and when they couldnt, he asked Virgin Money to see if he could recover his money through 
the bank. 
It seems that Virgin Money initially raised a chargeback for Mr M and temporarily credited his 
account. But it appears the chargeback was declined or defended by N as the temporary 
credit was subsequently removed from Mr Ms account. Virgin Money explained that a 
Section 75 (S75) claim wouldnt be considered as Mr M had requested a refund outside of 
the cooling off period explained in his booking terms and conditions with N. They also said 
his claim wouldnt succeed because of the extended availability of the passes. Virgin Money 
did pay Mr M £50 for the delay in dealing with his claim and a lack of response to some of 
his correspondence. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said that he 
felt the chargeback claim had been raised out of time, and Virgin Money had dealt with that 
correctly. He also said he thought Virgin Money had acted reasonably by declining the S75 
claim. He said the service hadnt been cancelled by N and Mr M wasnt entitled to a refund 
as per Ns terms and conditions. He said he didnt think there had been a breach of contract 
here. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said his planned destination was in full lockdown from mid-March 
2020 and remained that way for a few months. He had specified the dates he was going to 
be using the attraction passes for, and the service wasnt available to him at that time. He 
maintained that he should be entitled to a full refund. Our investigator responded to Mr Ms 
points. He explained that it was possible that Mr Ms contract with N had been frustrated  
meaning it had never existed  but that isnt covered by a S75 claim. He continued to say 
that Virgin Money had acted reasonably. 
As Mr M didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 
7 March 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sure Mr M was disappointed that his trip couldnt go ahead as planned. The 
circumstances of the pandemic at the time he was due to travel meant that he was unable to 
visit the destination as he had intended to. Its also the case that the attractions for which the 
passes were purchased were closed or operating with limitations likely to have affected his 
ability to use them as planned for at least some part of the 12 months following their 
purchase. 
S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that, in certain circumstances, a credit provider 
can be liable for a misrepresentation of breach of contract claim that the borrower might 
have against the supplier of goods or services. 
Because Mr M used his Virgin Money credit card, he can in certain circumstances claim 
against Virgin Money as he might otherwise do against N, using the connected lender 
liability provisions set out in S75. He can also ask the bank to assist him in recovering 
money from N by means of chargeback, through the relevant card scheme rules, which in 
this case are set by Mastercard. The circumstances in which Mr M might be able to claim 
under S75 are rather more limited than are available through chargeback, but from what Ive 
been made aware of in this case Im satisfied Virgin Money understood it was appropriate to 
consider both options. 
The stated purpose of the contract with N was to allow Mr M permitted access to his 
selection of attractions over a three-day period, without additional payment, at any time in 
the 12 months from the purchase date. Proper analysis would have to conclude that, as 
things turned out, the passes could not be used at any time in the 12 months from the date 
of purchase. There were periods within those 12 months where the passes could not be 
used, when attractions were closed during the pandemic. And that was in the period in which 
Mr M was intending to travel and use the passes. 
There are some circumstances where the unavailability of the pass for part of the 12-month 
period might not cause a problem. But that is dependent on the user having flexibility to 
travel on alternative dates, so they might make use of the pass at a different time. And the 
12-month extension to the 12-month period (while not provided for within the contract) might 
also be acceptable to some passholders. 
But in Mr Ms case, he didnt have the flexibility to travel on alternative dates. He has said 
that the trip was planned for April 2020 as a special trip with members of his family at the 
only time they could all be available. That was the reason they were going away. The 
inability to travel defeated the object of the holiday and the purpose of buying the passes. 
Mr M has at least an arguable case that because the pandemic meant the passes couldnt 
be used at any time (including when he wanted to use them), the contract with N was 
frustrated even if it wasnt breached. 
That might well mean an attempt to claim under S75  which can only be brought in relation 
to misrepresentation or a breach of contract  could not be successful, for different reasons 
to the ones given by Virgin Money. But it still leaves the question of whether Virgin Money 
did enough to assist Mr M with his attempts to recover his money via chargeback.
Our investigator has asked Virgin Money for their comments on whether a chargeback was 
raised, and if it was, what the defence of it was from N. Virgin Money havent responded to 
that. Where the information is incomplete, Ive based this provisional decision on what I do 
have and what is known about the chargeback scheme. Mr M has said that Virgin Money temporarily credited him the full amount paid for the passes 
when he initially got in touch with them. And, subsequently, this temporary credit was 
removed. Its not known why this happened, or what prompted Virgin Money to do this. 
The card scheme rules provide for a chargeback to be raised on the grounds that goods or 
services are not as described. As Ive explained above, N set out that the passes were 
available for use at any time during the 12 months following purchase, and there is clear 
evidence here that for a significant portion of that time they were not. 
Our investigator has suggested that Virgin Money re-debited Mr Ms account for the passes 
as he had raised his chargeback out of time. I havent seen any evidence of that from Virgin 
Money, And Im not persuaded that the chargeback had been raised out of time. 
The Mastercard chargeback scheme rules say that a chargeback must be raised within 120 
days of the latest anticipated delivery or performance date specified by N. The booking 
terms and conditions for N state that the passes are valid for 12 months following date of 
purchase, and the passes only become active once theyre used at an attraction for the first 
time. While its accepted that Mr M stated that he planned to use the passes for the first time 
on 15 April 2020, he didnt do that. Therefore, the passes remained in use and valid for the 
entire 12-month period following their purchase. 
With that in mind, when Mr M asked Virgin Money to help him recover the money for the 
passes in September 2020, the passes were still valid, and Im satisfied he was in time in 
accordance with the chargeback scheme rules. 
Its also worth mentioning that Mastercard published guidance in May 2020 titled Dispute 
Resolution Management During Covid-19 which outlined common scenarios it anticipated 
arising because of the pandemic. One of the scenarios explained that a chargeback right 
existed when a merchant (N in this case) cannot provide the service a consumer paid for 
because of government restrictions. 
Restrictions in Mr Ms planned destination closed all tourist attractions between March and 
July 2020. As explained previously, the terms and conditions of the passes enabled Mr M to 
use the tickets at any time within the 12-month period. But its clear from the restrictions 
imposed on the attractions at Mr Ms destination that he couldnt use the tickets at any time, 
and the service wasnt available to him. There isnt anything in the terms and conditions that 
include any limitations or restrictions on this clause. 
The contract Mr M entered with N allowed him access to the attractions. And it seems those 
attractions were available for some of the 12-month period. I understand Mr M couldnt 
arrange an alternative date for his trip at a time when the attractions would have been 
available, but his contract with N was still valid during those times. 
Because of the lack of evidence to the contrary from Virgin Money, Im more persuaded than 
not that Virgin Money could have pursued Mr Ms chargeback claim and, because the 
attractions were unavailable for approximately 50% of the passes validity period, they could 
have raised a chargeback for 50% of the total pass amount. I havent seen anything to 
suggest this wouldnt have been successful if Virgin Money had pursued it. It is now too late 
for Virgin Money to raise the chargeback, so Im planning to ask them to reimburse Mr M 
£315.69. Im also planning to ask them to add 8% simple interest to that amount from the 
date they re-debited Mr Ms account to the date they make this settlement. 
Virgin Money have paid Mr M £50 for the delays in dealing with his claim, and for a lack of 
response to some of his correspondence. Having looked at the evidence I have from both sides, its clear Mr M experienced some frustration when trying to speak to Virgin Money 
about his situation, and to get some clarity on whether his claim would be successful. 
Because of that frustration, Im planning to ask Virgin Money to pay Mr M an additional £50  
making this £100 in total.
Virgin Money didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr M did. He accepted my findings 
in general. But he said he had been charged interest on his credit card account when Virgin 
Money re-debited his account until the date they sent him a response to his complaint, and 
he felt that should be refunded to him too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
I understand Mr Ms comments about the interest he was charged by Virgin Money following 
the re-debit of the chargeback credit temporarily applied to his account. But I dont feel it 
would be entirely fair in the circumstances of this complaint to ask Virgin Money to refund it. 
Ive said in my provisional decision that Im more persuaded than not that Virgin Money 
could have pursued Mr Ms chargeback claim. But I havent said, and cant say, that it 
definitely would have been successful.
What my decision sets out to do is recognise that Im persuaded Virgin Money should have 
done more to pursue Mr Ms chargeback. And Im satisfied the reimbursement Ive explained 
is the most reasonable way of reflecting this. 
My decision is that Virgin Money should pay Mr M £315.69. They must add 8% simple 
interest to that amount from the date they re-debited Mr Ms account to the date they make 
this settlement. And they should pay Mr M an additional £50 (on top of the £50 theyve 
already paid to him) to recognise the frustration their handling of his claim and lack of 
response to some correspondence caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
must:
Pay Mr M £315.69.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date they re-debited Mr Ms account 
until the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr M an additional £50 compensation for the delays he experienced when trying 
to make his claim, and for a lack of response to some of his correspondence. 
*If Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr M how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman