DRN-3015386
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M have complained about Mr K being removed from their joint payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken alongside their mortgage with Paymentshield Ltd 
(Paymentshield). They also complain they have not received annual statements for several 
years as well as the poor service they experienced in response to their queries. 
What happened
Mr K and Miss M had a joint PPI policy with their mortgage since 2006. On 4 November 
2020 Paymentshield wrote to them saying that as Mr K would be turning 65 years of age the 
following month he would be removed from the policy. 
Mr K and Miss M complained that they only had one months warning that Mr K would be 
removed from the cover. They said they had not been receiving the annual statements for 
five years as they should have done. They also wanted acknowledgement that after they 
raised their concerns they werent contacted. 
Paymentshield didnt uphold Mr K and Miss Ms complaint about the statements and Mr K 
being removed from the cover but did offer £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the lack of clarity 
and poor service they had received. 
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint said that Paymentshield was entitled to 
remove Mr K from the policy as this was outlined in the policy terms and conditions. The 
adjudicator was also satisfied with the evidence provided by Paymentshield that the annual 
statements were sent, and to the correct address. He also thought the gesture of goodwill 
offer wasnt unreasonable. 
Mr K and Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator. They thought they should have been given 
more than 30-days notice before Mr K would be removed from the policy. They commented 
on the letter sent by Paymentshield on 7 December 2020 which referred to Mr K who should 
have been removed from the policy by that point. They also hadnt received any paperwork 
about the new amended policy. They were concerned about the lack of contact details 
Paymentshield had about them  they had been customers since 2006 and Paymentshield 
only had their address. They also referred to a cyber incident Paymentshield had 
experienced and were concerned this had impacted on them receiving their statements.
The adjudicator responded to Mr K and Miss Ms comments and also requested that 
Paymentshield send the updated policy information to them.  
Mr K and Miss M disagreed with the adjudicator. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has 
been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Miss M have said it was fortunate that they received the letter of 4 November 2020 
otherwise they wouldnt have been aware that Mr K was being removed from the policy 
because of him turning 65 years shortly afterwards. I know they are aware  as explained to 
them by the adjudicator  that condition was included within the policy terms and conditions 
that were agreed at the outset when they took the policy in 2006. I appreciate Mr K and  
Miss Ms comment that it would have been more helpful for them to have had more notice, 
particularly during the pandemic, in order for them to have considered alternative cover. But 
the 30-day notification was within the policy terms which were agreed at the outset. So, I 
cant conclude that Paymentshield was wrong in its notification timeframe.  
Paymentshield has provided a screenshot of what it has said is its correspondence records 
for Mr K and Miss M and that shows statements were sent to them in November each year. I 
know Mr K and Miss M have concerns about this. They have questioned whether the 
screenshot actually refers to their account. It doesnt quote their name and they referred to a 
cyber incident that had taken place at Paymentshield. They were not satisfied with what 
Paymentshield said about its searches of its postal records and it not having any returned 
post from their address. 
Clearly, its unfortunate the statements for the previous five years werent received by Mr K 
and Miss M. And I understand their point that it was fortunate they did receive the notification 
they did dated 4 November 2020 that Mr K was being removed from the policy, otherwise 
they wouldnt have been aware this was the case.
Mr K and Miss M have made very clear their frustration and disappointment about not 
receiving the statements. For them  quite simply  they didnt receive the statements as 
they should. And its difficult for me to see how I can reach a satisfactory resolution for them 
on this point but I havent been told of any financial loss incurred or that Mr K and Miss M 
were caused any material inconvenience during the years they didnt receive the statements.
Ive reviewed the screenshot that Paymentshield has provided and I agree, it doesnt include 
any identification of Mr K and Miss M, such as their name or address. But Paymentshield 
has told us the statements would have been sent to the address recorded on its database  
which I can see from other correspondence is the correct address and at which Mr K and 
Miss M did receive later correspondence. 
I can see from the screenshot that under the title of Print Date & Time its recorded that on 
or around the 27th November  since 2012  a despatch date and time is recorded and the 
Recipient as being CLIENT. In the absence of other or complete evidence that would 
satisfy Mr K and Miss M, I have to reach a decision on what I think those records more likely 
show. And bearing in mind the annual consistency of the despatch date, and Paymentshield 
being obliged to issue an annual statement, Im satisfied that those records are most likely 
record dates of the statements being sent, albeit them not being received. 
It cant be known for sure what happened to those statements in the absence of them not 
being received by Mr K and Miss M. And, as I have said above, Paymentshield has told us it 
has no records of post being returned to them from Mr K and Miss Ms address. But I think 
its more likely the records provided indicate that Paymentshield did what it should have 
done  by sending the correspondence  and I cant conclude that it should be held 
responsible for correctly addressed mail not being delivered or delivered but not being seen 
by them for some other reason. Paymentshield has also confirmed that the sending of the 
annual statements wouldnt have been impacted by the cyber incident. I know Mr K and Miss M may not be satisfied with my conclusion, but Ive explained above 
how and why I have reached it based on the information I have and taking into account the 
information and conflicting testimony. 
I know Mr K and Miss M have been disappointed and frustrated with other aspects of 
administration  as one example, them not being sent accurate new policy terms showing 
that Mr K had been removed, despite being told in the letter of 4 November 2020 The 
confirmation of the amendment into a sole name policy will be confirmed with a revised 
certificate. Ive seen other correspondence that also mis-quoted the policy details and the 
misspelling of names. 
In particular, Mr K and Miss M are unhappy with the incorrect information given in the quote 
and Certificate of Cover dated 7 December 2020 as well as the inaccuracies in the 
correspondence dated 6 July 2021. Because of this I consider Paymentshield should pay an 
additional £50 over and above the £50 previously offered. It has since agreed and the 
adjudicator has passed this increased offer onto Mr K and Miss M, and I hope I have now 
made clear what that increased offer was for.
I know Mr K and Miss M were concerned about the lack of contact details Paymentshield 
had about them. If Mr K and Miss M want to provide alternative or additional contact details 
to Paymentshield they should do so. 
In conclusion, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr K and Miss Ms complaint 
about Mr K being removed from the policy when he turned 65 years of age and the 30-day 
notification they were given. But I do uphold their complaint about poor customer service for 
the reasons and to the extent set out above. And Paymentshield Ltd should pay Mr K and 
Miss M £100 for this. I think this total offer of £100 is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
As detailed above, I do not uphold Mr K and Miss Ms complaint about Mr K being removed 
from the policy. But I do uphold Mr K and Miss Ms complaint about the other aspects of their 
complaint. It is now for Mr K and Miss M to decide whether to accept the £100 being offered 
by Paymentshield Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman