DRN-3619079
The complaint
Mr T complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T has car insurance underwritten by Advantage. And he made a claim after he was 
involved in an accident. Advantage accepted the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried 
out to the car.
Mr T says the repairs took too long. His car was with the repairer for around four weeks for a 
relatively straightforward repair.
He says the courtesy car he was provided with wasnt suitable because it was larger than his 
own car, which effectively meant he couldnt use it.
And he says the customer service from Advantage was poor  they didnt keep him updated 
about the repairs, didnt return calls and left him anxious and stressed.
Mr T made a complaint to Advantage. They recognised that there had been some delays in 
handling the complaint and paid Mr T £20 in compensation for that. 
But they didnt uphold the complaint itself. They said the delay in the repairs was due to 
problems with the supply of the required parts, which was beyond their control. They said 
Mr T was provided with a courtesy car as per the terms of the policy. And they said Mr T had 
been provided with updates when there had been anything to report.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought the delays in the repair had been explained and the courtesy car 
provided was in line with the policy terms. 
But he thought the customer service had been lacking and he asked Advantage to pay Mr T 
£100 in compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Neither Mr T nor Advantage agreed with our investigator. Advantage dont think their 
customer service was lacking at all. Mr T still thinks the courtesy car wasnt suitable and he 
thinks the customer service was far worse than the proposed £100 compensation suggests. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts car was repaired around four weeks after the accident. It took that long because the 
spare parts werent available from the supplier. I can see why Mr T would be frustrated by 
that and why he would want his car back sooner, but the delays arent the fault of Advantage 
or their preferred repairer.
The courtesy car was larger than Mr Ts car  thats not in dispute. The terms of the policy 
say the repairer will supply a courtesy car and it will usually be a group A vehicle. The 
policy does not commit Advantage to ensuring that a courtesy car matches a customers 
vehicle in any way.
So, I agree with our investigator that the delays in the repairs werent unreasonable or unfair 
in all the circumstances and that the courtesy car provided was entirely in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
From looking at both parties records of the contact between them during the month or so 
between the accident and the repairs being completed, I can see that Mr T was seeking 
updates with a degree of regularity. 
I dont think Advantage were obliged to provide updates with the regularity that Mr T seemed 
to want. However, I can also see that on occasion, Advantage ignored Mr Ts requests 
and/or failed to get back to him.
Advantage in essence say they updated Mr T when there were any developments. But they 
also say they contacted him only three times  two of which were right at the start of the 
period in question.
There appears to have been quite a stretch of time when Mr T was regularly asking 
Advantage for updates, but they werent really responding in any meaningful way. 
It should have been clear to Advantage that Mr T was upset about the accident and anxious 
about the claim and the repairs. I think in that context, they might have been clearer with 
Mr T about when and how often he might expect updates from them. 
And I think they might have responded more often to his requests  even if only to say (very 
briefly) that there were no developments and/or to manage Mr Ts expectations about when 
and how often he would hear from them.
Putting things right
Taking all of that into account, I agree with our investigator that Mr T has been caused some 
distress and inconvenience because of the way Advantage chose to communicate with him. 
And that Advantage should compensate Mr T for that.
However, given the short period involved, I cant agree with Mr T that the trouble and upset 
hes suffered is so significant that it requires more than the £100 compensation our 
investigator proposed.  
For the sake of absolute clarity, the £100 compensation is in addition to the £20 Advantage 
paid Mr T for their poor handling of his complaint. I havent looked at that element of Mr Ts 
complaint because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so isnt something we 
can look into.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr T £100 in compensation for his trouble 
and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman