DRN-2897316
The complaint
Ms M complains about a loan given to her by Bamboo Limited.
What happened
In December 2014, Ms M applied for a loan of £5,000 with Bamboo. It was agreed on the 
basis that it would be repaid by 60 monthly instalments of approximately £216. Ms M 
complains that Bamboo didnt carry out sufficient checks before agreeing to the loan. She 
says if it had, it would have seen the loan was unaffordable for her and should have refused 
to lend to her.
Bamboo looked into her complaint. It said it had obtained proof of her income, checked her 
credit file and used statistics to calculate her expenditure. It felt on that basis the loan was 
affordable for her and rejected her complaint. Bamboo offered Ms M £750 in an attempt to 
resolve her complaint, which it later raised to £1,950.
Ms M didnt agree so referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into it and felt that Bamboo had lent to Ms M irresponsibly. She asked Bamboo to put 
matters right.
Ms M accepted what our investigator said, but Bamboo didnt. As there was no agreement, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint.
 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time and 
did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way?
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about Bamboo assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on her. The fact 
that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential for Bamboo to pursue the 
guarantor instead of Ms M doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become unsustainable).
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
As it has said, Bamboo conducted its usual checks regarding income, expenditure and 
Ms Ms credit file so I can understand why it felt its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. But its not sufficient simply to carry out the checks, Bamboo needed to 
consider what it found as a result in order to reach a fair decision to lend. 
Ms Ms application shows her income as £1,471 and Bamboo obtained a payslip to support 
this. But the payslip shows an income for the month prior to the loan of £1,385  a difference 
of almost £90 per month. Bamboo used the higher figure for its affordability calculations. 
Ms M lived with her partner and three children, and declared she paid £400 per month 
toward rent. Bamboo used figures supplied by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to 
calculate her living expenses. It came to a figure of £493.50 per month, representing half of 
what Bamboo said the ONS has calculated as a reasonable figure. Bamboo also used her 
credit file to calculate a monthly amount of £40.10 to other creditors. This left a monthly 
disposable income for Ms M of £537 from which she would need to pay £216 to this loan, 
leaving a surplus of £320 or so (£230 using the figure given on Ms Ms payslip). So on the 
face of it, I can see why  even with the lower income figure  Bamboo felt the loan would be 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis.
Bamboo also considered Ms Ms credit file. It noted she had a relatively low level of 
outstanding commitments  around £2,200  so it says her borrowing raised no concerns. 
But I note the majority of that debt had been taken in the last six months. Shed opened four 
new credit facilities and was close to the limit on each. Shed also used a number of 
advance against income (AAI) facilities in that time. 
So while the level of debt Ms M had at the time was relatively low, it had been taken recently 
and I think ought to have prompted Bamboo to look more closely at Ms Ms financial 
circumstances. 
If Ms M really had a £537 monthly disposable income prior to this loan being drawn, why 
would she be borrowing the sums she had in a short space of time? Bamboo had relied on 
statistical evidence from the ONS to estimate her expenditure which may or may not have 
been accurate for her specific circumstances. Given an increasing reliance on credit and that 
she was applying for a substantial loan over a long period of time, it would seem sensible to 
have asked Ms M for details of what she thought her expenditure was, rather than simply assuming it was in line with the national average.
It follows that I dont think Bamboo carried out reasonable and proportionate checks - Ms M 
was now looking to borrow a significant sum over a long period of time, and Bamboo had a 
duty to ensure shed be able to manage it sustainably over the whole period.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, and did Bamboo 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led Bamboo to 
carry out further checks on Ms Ms finances. I think it would have been reasonable for 
Bamboo to get a more detailed picture of Ms Ms expenditure, for example by asking to see 
several months of her bank statements from Ms M in light of what appears to be a fairly 
sudden increase in her reliance on credit.
Ms M has provided us with copies of some of her bank statements for three months or so 
leading up to the loan being taken. While they dont provide a full picture as Ms M had 
accounts elsewhere, they show her income going in and provide some useful information 
which raises further concerns about her financial circumstances.
They show Ms Ms income to be £1,384 per month  not the figure Bamboo used in its 
assessment. Its evident too that she was relying on an AAI to prevent her current account 
from going overdrawn. In the first of the three months, there were a few transactions to 
gambling companies, but by November 2014 (just before the loan was taken) the vast 
majority of the transactions on the account were gambling related.
Putting the statements together with what Bamboo had discovered during its checks, they 
show a picture of a consumer who has recently begun to take on credit and is gambling 
more on month by month basis. A consumer who is now looking for a substantial loan over a 
longer period of time. If Bamboo had asked further questions at the time of Ms Ms 
application, it would have seen that her financial situation was not as steady as it may have 
first appeared and ought to have refused to lend to her. I dont think it reached a fair decision 
to lend to her. 
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms M in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Bamboo has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms M in some other way. 
But I do think Bamboo should have refused to lend to Ms M, so I am upholding her complaint 
about the loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Ms M in the position she would be in now if she hadnt 
been given the loan. But Ms M was given the loan, used the money so its right she should 
repay what she borrowed. 
So, I think Bamboo should:Calculate the total amount Ms M received from Bamboo and deduct from that figure 
the repayments shes made to the loan.
oIf this results in Ms M having repaid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded to her. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per 
year should be added to any overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Ms M to pay, Bamboo 
should let Ms M know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, 
affordable payment plan with her. I remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat 
customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ms credit file regarding each loan. 
* If Bamboo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bamboo Limited should settle it as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman