DRN-4391910
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
declined his application for finance.
What happened
Mr P accepted a quotation for the installation of a new boiler at a price of £3437.29. The 
merchant offered the option to apply for an interest free loan repayable over 4 years.
Mr P applied for the finance offer but Novuna declined his application. Mr P was left with no 
option but to pay for the boiler in full using funds that he had available in his savings 
account.
Mr P complained to Novuna. He was unhappy that his application had been declined despite 
him having a clear credit file. 
In its final response, Novuna said it had reviewed Mr Ps application and could see that the 
reason for it declining the application was due to Mr P not meeting the lending criteria. It said 
its application process had been followed correctly and it was unable to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says hes unhappy 
about the reasoning provided by Novuna for declining his application. He seeks 
compensation for the loss of interest on the sum hes paid out from his savings.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although she understood that Mr 
P was unhappy that Novuna hadnt provided a specific explanation for declining his 
application, this service wasnt able to tell Novuna to disclose its lending criteria.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he didnt think it was reasonable for Novuna to advise a third 
party that they were refusing to provide credit based on his credit rating when his credit 
rating was clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the letter which Mr P received from Novuna dated 21 April 2023. This states 
that his application was assessed using our credit scoring system which uses the information 
used by you, together with information provided by a credit rating agency.
Mr P says that there was a minor error in the income inputted in his application which 
Novuna was made aware of and deemed irrelevant. Mr P has obtained a copy of his credit 
report, which shows that he has an excellent credit rating. 
Ive also reviewed the letter which Mr P received from Novuna dated 25 April 2023 which 
states that his application was declined due to its policy and that due to this it did not contact 
a credit rating agency when processing his application.
I understand why Mr P feels that Novuna declined his application on the basis of his credit 
rating and then appeared to change its reasoning. But on a careful analysis of the letters 
sent by Novuna, I dont think this is the case. The first letter (21 April) says that Novuna has 
assessed the application using information provided by Mr P together with information used 
by a credit rating agency (my emphasis added). This means that the decision to decline may 
have been taken on the basis of information provided by Mr P. Mr P assumed that this 
related to the error with his income but thats not necessarily the case. There is other 
information provided by Mr P that Novuna is likely to have taken into account. The fact that 
Novuna later advised Mr P that it didnt contact a credit rating agency is - I acknowledge  
inconsistent with the first letter - but suggests to me that Mr Ps application was declined 
because of information provided by him, and not because of information provided by a  credit 
reference agency.
Novuna is allowed to set its own lending criteria based on risk factors and commercial 
considerations. I cant provide Mr P with the specific reason why his application was declined 
because this service isnt able to require Novuna to disclose it. 
What I can do is consider whether Novuna acted fairly and reasonably when it declined Mr 
Ps application. Based on the information Ive seen, Im unable to find anything to suggest 
that Mr Ps application was declined unfairly.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr P was hoping for. But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman