DRN-3070733
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint concerns a request by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(Fidelity) to complete a form providing source of wealth and funds information. Hes 
primarily unhappy that Fidelity placed restrictions on his account as a result of the form not 
being completed. 
 
What happened
In November 2020 Fidelity wrote to Mr W, a longstanding account holder, with a request to 
complete a Source of Wealth and Source of Funds Questionnaire. It explained:
As part of our commitment to improving our service offer, we often review customers' 
records. We also review them to ensure the information we hold enables us to meet anti-
money laundering legislation and regulations. Right now, we don't quite have everything we 
need.
Mr W didnt return the questionnaire, so a follow-up letter was issued to him in January 2021. 
This letter warned that if the completed questionnaire wasnt received within thirty days it 
might be necessary to place some restrictions on his account.
As the questionnaire wasnt subsequently received, Mr Ws Relationship Manager contacted 
him about the matter in April 2021. As the form still wasnt received, restrictions were then 
placed on the account, which Mr W was informed of in a further letter of 28 April 2021  
although he became aware of the restrictions prior to receipt of the letter when he shortly 
after attempted to make some transactions. 
There followed a period of correspondence between Mr W and Fidelity during which he 
explained his concerns about the process  primarily that, having been an account holder for 
over 10 years, it was difficult to recall precise details about the source of monies invested, so 
he was concerned about signing off information that might not be accurate. Attempts were 
made to reach a compromise, but as these werent successful, Fidelity ultimately treated 
Mr Ws concerns as a formal complaint and issued a final response on 26 May 2021, which 
explained why it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Fidelity said it felt it had made reasonable attempts to obtain the information and there was a 
requirement for it to do so, in light of its regulatory responsibilities, relating particularly to UK 
Monel Laundering Regulations and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Financial Crime Guide 
for Firms. It went on to say that it considered the terms of the account provided for the 
implementation of restrictions in exceptional circumstances or due to legal requirements, and 
that in this case the non-receipt of the information put it at risk of breaching its legal 
requirements. Fidelity confirmed that while the restrictions would remain in place it would 
continue to release income to Mr W and added that he was free to transfer his investments 
to another provider. 
The matter was referred to this service, where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as Fidelity. She said, in brief:
Fidelity has legal and regulatory requirements it needs to meet and how it chooses to 
do so is a matter of commercial discretion. 
The information requests within the questionnaire were reasonable. 
A clear explanation of its actions had been provided and a reasonable deadline 
provided.  
She accepted it was likely some of the requested information was already held by 
Fidelity, but it was nevertheless reasonable for Fidelity to seek to update its records.
A reasonable offer had been made by Fidelity to accept information from Mr W on a 
best recollections basis. 
There was nothing in the making of the request that implied wrongdoing on Mr Ws 
part.
There was no evidence of Fidelity having a hidden agenda in attempting to obtain the 
information.
The terms provided for reasonable requests and explained the potential for 
restrictions, for which warnings were provided.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr W has very strong feelings about Fidelitys actions  not just the act of placing 
restrictions upon his account, but also how it then dealt with him and his concerns when 
raised. Hes provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Further, the ombudsman service is not the industry regulator and its not our role to set rules 
for financial businesses or to police the industry to ensure those rules are followed. Thats 
the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The role of this service is 
to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of each case. In doing so, although I must have regard for the law and 
relevant industry regulations, Im not bound by them.
While I note that in Mr Ws rebuttal of the investigators view, hes said the sole reason for 
referral to this service was the imposition of an invalid embargo, and I accept this is his 
main concern. But Ive nevertheless looked  as the investigator did  at the matter as a 
whole, including the request for information itself, the restrictions placed on Mr Ws account 
and the subsequent handling of his concerns by Fidelity and how it communicated with him.
In respect of the first of these, Im satisfied Fidelitys November 2020 request for information 
was reasonable in light of its ongoing responsibility to meet its legal and regulatory 
requirements. These are varied and theres no prescribed methodology, so it falls to each 
financial business to determine how best to meet the requirements. Its therefore a matter of 
commercial discretion. But, that said, its also important that whatever methodology is 
adopted is proportionate and treats customers fairly.    
 
I dont think that against the backdrop of the regulatory requirements, asking customers to 
the provide the information requested in the questionnaire was unreasonable, or unduly onerous. I understand Mr Ws concerns about potentially not being able to provide accurate 
information, given the years that had passed since he started investing with Fidelity. But 
looking at the questionnaire, the questions didnt require a large amount of specific detail. 
And in any event, when Mr W raised his concerns with Fidelity it offered a compromise and 
explained that it was willing to accept his best recollections verbally on a recorded call to 
avoid the need for the form. Unfortunately, agreement on this as a way forward could not be 
reached. 
I accept that Fidelitys offer indicates that completion of the questionnaire was not strictly 
necessary (as noted, there was no regulatory prescription in that respect) so, Fidelity 
couldve adopted a different approach sooner that wouldve addressed Mr Ws concerns 
about providing accurate information, along with his point about Fidelity already being in 
possession of some of the information in one form or another. 
But I think it was reasonable for Fidelity to seek the information provided in the format 
requested, in line with the procedure it has chosen to adopt to meet its responsibilities. Im 
satisfied that adopting a generic process was reasonable. I dont think Fidelity can have 
been expected to take account of individual circumstances, certainly not at the initial point of 
contact. This was an important procedure and, as such, it was important it retained integrity 
and consistency as far as practically possible. I dont think Fidelity can have been expected 
to go through each account and determine what might or might not be required before 
seeking the information. Nor can it have been expected to accept non-receipt of the 
information without acting to address it in some way. 
Which brings me on to the issue of most concern to Mr W, the imposition of restrictions on 
his account. As Ive said, I think given the purpose of the process, it was reasonable for 
Fidelity to include some form of sanction for non-compliance to maintain the integrity of the 
process. It couldnt be expected to carry out the process and then not act when the 
information wasnt provided.
Mr W was warned in January 2021 of the potential for restrictions to be placed on his 
account and given a period of 30 days to comply. Fidelity actually then waited over three 
months to implement restrictions, during which time Mr Ws relationship manager pro-
actively contacted him to highlight that the questionnaire had not been returned. I think this 
was reasonable and that the imposition of the restrictions in such circumstances was 
provided for in the terms of the account. 
Lastly, Ive noted Mr Ws concerns about the communication with Fidelity following the 
restrictions being placed on his account. But Ive seen nothing that I feel supports his view 
that the nature of the communication was in some way a deceitful attempt by Fidelity to 
achieve a hidden objective  a targeted money laundering investigation in which he would be 
entrapped. Im satisfied Fidelitys treatment of Mr W mirrored that of any other account 
holder in similar circumstances. 
There may have been occasions where the service provided to him couldve been better or 
more consistent  for instance, in the follow-up to the call of 14 May 2021 in which he was 
promised that further information about the relevant regulatory requirements would be 
provided. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Fidelity was generally acting in good faith to 
try to reach a compromise with Mr W, as demonstrated by the offer of the call with a senior 
member of compliance staff. 
      
Its unfortunate no compromise or resolution could be reached and that, as such, the 
restrictions remained in place on Mr Ws account. And although I understand it wouldnt have 
been an ideal solution, he wasnt prevented from transferring to another provider, although I 
suspect that he would at some point have encountered similar requests for information, given that all businesses providing similar services would be subject to the same regulation 
as Fidelity. 
Im sympathetic to Mr Ws concerns about providing potentially inaccurate information and 
the fact that some would already have been held by Fidelity. So, I appreciate why he raised 
these concerns. And I also take his point about Fidelity presenting the process as part of its 
commitment to improving its service offer, when clearly its purpose was to meet its 
regulatory requirements. 
But, overall, Im satisfied Fidelity acted fairly and reasonably in requesting the information 
from Mr W and that it continued to do so in following up on its request, then implementing 
the restrictions on his account when the information wasnt provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman