DRN-2312997
The complaint
Mr C complains that the Computershare website did not allow him to sell his shares when it 
should have done. He says that a sell button was missing  so he did not have the ability to 
sell his shares. He says he could only view his share holdings. 
What happened
Mr C had shares held in a Computershare account and in 2019 he says he was trying to sell 
these them. Mr C has said that there was no ability to do so on certain dates, essentially 
because the option to sell was not available on the Computershare website. He supplied 
screen prints to evidence this. He was able to sell his shares on 7 August 2019. 
He complained to Computershare but it did not uphold his complaint. It said its logs indicated 
there had been no attempt to sell his shares prior to the trade he made on 7 August 2019. It 
also said there hadnt been any system issues at the time. It also mentioned that if Mr C had 
sold his shares prior to 6 August he would not have received a number of matching shares. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. At this point Computershare said that its records 
showed that Mr C did have the option to sell his shares and his account allowed him to sell 
at any time. Mr C had not informed it of any problems he was having before 6 August 2019. 
Furthermore Mr Cs screen prints were not dated and so it was not possible to know when 
they were taken. 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by an investigator. She thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She thought that it was likely that the screen prints Mr C had provided were taken on 
5, 6 or 7 August 2019. And Mr C made a complaint about not being able to sell his shares on 
6 August 2019  which the investigator believed supported a finding that Mr C was trying to 
sell his shares on this day. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say that Mr C 
had tried to sell the shares before this date.  
A response has not been received from Computershare.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the investigator and for materially the same 
reasons.
Mr C has supplied three Computershare website screen prints which show his account and 
shareholding. Two of those show the available action as view. The third shows two 
available actions: view and sell. 
It is not clear when these screen prints were taken, but two of them do appear to suggest 
that the option to sell wasnt available to Mr C. Furthermore, Mr C complaining that he 
couldnt sell on 6 August 2019 would tend to support Mr Cs version of events that he 
couldnt sell on that date. The lack of any contact with Computershare or dating of the 
screen prints means that I agree that there is insufficient evidence to establish if Mr C 
attempted to sell before 6 August 2019 and exactly when.
I dont believe that the absence of logs indicating that Mr C tried to sell before 7 August 2019 
is indicative as to what happened prior to that date. If there was no ability for Mr C to sell 
then there wouldnt be a record of him trying to sell. 
Consequently I uphold the complaint insofar as I believe Mr C would have sold his shares on 
6 August 2019 if he was able to  but was not able to do so on this date.
Putting things right
It is not clear at exactly what time Mr C would have sold the shares on 6 August 2019. So 
Computershare should calculate the average price of the shareholding on this date. It should 
then compare this with the value Mr C received when he sold the shares. The difference is 
the loss amount and this should be paid to Mr C, plus interest on that amount from 6 August 
2019 to the date of this decision at 8% simple a year. 
I also agree that this matter would have caused Mr C some inconvenience and the 
investigators suggestion of £50 is fair in these circumstances. 
The compensation should be paid to Mr C within 28 days of the date Computershare 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes 
Computershare to pay Mr C this compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Computershare deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Computershare should give Mr 
C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Computershare to calculate and pay the redress as set out 
above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman