DRN-2306292
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc would not increase his overdraft limit and with the 
way it has dealt with him. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to all the parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Santander is entitled to decide who it wants to lend money to. Here it assessed Mr S 
financial position and concluded it wasnt responsible to increase his overdraft limit 
as it is entitled to do. Although I understand Mr S disappointment at this decision 
Santander carried out its normal checks, which is reasonable. Its subsequent 
decision is also an example of it exercising its commercial discretion in which we will 
not get involved. 
Mr S is also unhappy with the way Santander dealt with him in numerous phone 
calls. He has said amongst other things that it couldve dealt with him better, more 
clearly and that its operatives were on occasions rude. 
Santander has accepted it could have done better in a call on 8 February 2020 and it 
has paid Mr S some compensation and a goodwill gesture as an apology for this and 
him having to go into a branch. I think that is fair and reasonable.
Although some other calls clearly didnt proceed as Mr S would have liked and the 
way things were presented and expressed could on occasions have been clearer to 
avoid any misunderstanding, overall, I do not think Santander has done anything 
wrong. In the calls, amongst other things, it advised him of the accounts terms and 
conditions and the applicable charges. I note that some charges were waived due to 
Mr S circumstances which seems reasonable and his complaints were also recorded 
and dealt with. 
Whilst recognising that Mr S clearly found some of his communications with 
Santander challenging, unfulfilling and frustrating, I do not think on balance that its 
operatives were rude or unprofessional as has been suggested or that the payment 
of any more compensation to him is reasonably warranted for what happened.  
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Mr S frustration and strength of 
feeling, I do not think I can fairly or reasonably require Santander to now increase his 
overdraft limit or pay him more compensation as he would like. 
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman