DRN-1984503
 
The complaint
X complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited pressurised him into joining 
the Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution Scheme (TAVC). He says he didnt need to 
top up his pension and so this was an unsuitable and unnecessary product for him, in his 
circumstances.
What happened
In December 1996, X was working in the teaching profession and already a member of the 
Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). He met with a Prudential adviser, who advised him to set 
up a TAVC to top up his pension.
X signed an application form, dated 11 December 1996, to take out the TAVC. On 6 January 
1997, Prudential sent X a letter confirming it had received his application and would be 
informing his employer to deduct 4.5% per month from his salary to pay into his TAVC. 
These contributions were then taken from Xs salary each month and paid across to his 
TAVC fund.
In June 1998, a further application form was completed to increase Xs monthly contributions 
from 4.5% to 9%. On 6 July 1998, Prudential sent confirmation of this change to X, by letter, 
and advised him it would take effect from his August 1998 payroll. The amendment 
application form was signed by X in August 1998.
In 2007, X left the teaching profession on medical grounds. He purchased an annuity using 
the funds from his TAVC. This annuity provides him with an annual income in retirement.
X complained to Prudential that it had mis-sold him the TAVC, both when he first took it out, 
and when the amount of his contribution was increased. Prudential didnt uphold his 
complaint and so he referred it to our service.
Our investigator looked into Xs complaint and recommended that it was not upheld. 
X didnt accept our investigators recommendation and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He said, in summary:
this was a pressurised sale and the TAVC pension was unsuitable for his needs;
he was deceived into signing up for the TAVC;
no financial review was carried out in 1996 or 1997 to work out objectively if the TAVC 
was suitable for his needs. The box was ticked by the adviser and not him to say that 
there was no requirement for a financial review. There was no mention of a financial 
review in 1997;
he didnt need to join the TAVC scheme as he and his wife were earning good salaries 
and had savings;
Prudential failed to provide him with clear, pertinent and relevant information on the 
TAVC; and
The adviser pressurised him into taking the TAVC for commercial reasons.
Xs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, I have to make a decision 
about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
I am not going to uphold Xs complaint. Ill explain why. My reasons for not upholding this 
complaint are largely the same as our investigators.
In 1989, Prudential was contracted by the Department of Education (DofE) to offer
teachers the chance to top up their pension funds. The TAVC was linked to
the TPS. Prudentials contract with the DofE was continuously renewed and reviewed. 
Generally, the TAVC was seen as a lower cost option for topping up pension provision for 
teachers, given the link to the TPS.
pressurised sale
As part of their contract with DofE, Prudential had to make teachers aware of the pensions 
options available to them. So, like our investigator said, I cant see that Prudential did 
anything wrong when it made contact with X, a member of the teaching profession, to 
discuss his pensions options. 
X said he felt pressurised into joining the TAVC, because of the conduct of the Prudential 
adviser. He said, amongst other things, the forms were completed by the adviser. He pointed 
out a discrepancy in the date of signing the 1998 amendment form. X was concerned that 
there were no minutes of the meetings between him and the adviser, to evidence what was 
discussed.
I cant know exactly what was discussed at these meetings. Even if minutes were taken, 
businesses often only keep records for six years, and these events happened much longer 
ago than that. So, I cant reasonably hold it against Prudential that theres not more 
information available now. 
So, as well as taking into account what X remembers from the time of sale, Ive also looked 
at the paperwork from the time to decide what more likely than not happened. I am 
conscious that memories can fade over time about events which occurred many years ago. I 
dont doubt that X is trying to accurately provide his recount of events from the time. 
However, I note for example, that X thought originally that the TAVC had been sold to him a 
number of years earlier than it was. And he couldnt recall asking for the amendment in 
1998, or signing the amendment application form. 
Looking at the form X signed in 1996, I can see that he was earning an annual salary in the 
region of £28,000. Prudential said its adviser wouldve used a ready reckoner to assess the 
level of contribution to advise the potential policy holder to contribute towards a TAVC. In Xs 
case, Prudential said that X wouldve been recommended to contribute 9% per annum 
based on the ready reckoner. The application form said that his monthly contribution was 
going to be 4.5%. The form also said that this level of contribution was below the ready 
reckoner amount. So, I think it likely that there was probably some discussion at the time 
about the amount of contribution, and X made a conscious decision to pay a lower monthly 
amount than was being recommended. This suggests to me that X felt able to make a conscious decision about what was best for 
him, in his particular circumstances, when he first joined the TAVC. And Ive not seen 
anything else that persuades me that X was pressurised into taking out the policy in 1996. 
Some time later, X increased his contributions. He couldnt originally recall doing that. I think 
had X felt pressurised into increasing his contributions in 1998, likely he wouldve recalled 
this discussion with the adviser. 
So, overall, I have insufficient evidence to conclude that X was pressurised into taking out 
the TAVC or pressurised into later increasing his contributions.
The adviser deceived him into signing the forms
I can see that X likely signed both applications forms, to join the TAVC, and to increase his 
monthly contribution. X didnt recall signing the 1998 form, but I think it more likely he did, as 
the signatures appear to match. The form was signed in August 1998, after the letter from 
Prudential telling him that his payments were going to increase from his August payroll. But, 
I dont think this is particularly significant, as X went on to sign the form to say he wanted to 
increase his contributions. If anything, this tends to suggest that X told Prudential on two 
separate dates in 1998, that he wanted to increase his contributions.
I dont place any weight on the fact that the application forms were completed, seemingly, by 
two different Prudential advisers, prior to X signing the forms. This is not an uncommon 
practice and doesnt lead me to the conclusion that Prudential deceived X by its actions in 
completing the forms for him to sign.
The forms were quite short, and in my view quite easy to read. So, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect X to read these before signing them. By signing the forms X agreed to 
a declaration, which read: 
I authorise the deduction from my earnings of the Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) 
specified above. 
 Clear and fair information.
The declaration on the form X signed in 1996, also said 
 I have received the Key Features document, Your Personal Quotation and the members 
AVC booklet.
The members AVC booklet referred to the other options available to X, such as purchasing 
added years or joining a free standing additional voluntary contribution scheme.
I cant know if X received these things. The Prudential adviser had a duty to advise X on the 
TAVC and make him aware there may be different options available. But, there was also a 
duty on X, to ensure he understood what he was signing and agreeing to. So, I cant fairly 
conclude that Prudential didnt give him the information he needed to make an informed 
choice about whether what he was buying was right for him.
Both when he took out the plan, and when he amended the contribution, letters were sent 
confirming the action that was going to be taken. Had X wanted to clarify anything, change 
what had been agreed, or ask for missing documents he couldve done so. I cant see that 
he did.
Xs personal circumstancesAs our investigator explained, topping up a pension fund wouldnt generally be considered 
poor advice, and looking at Xs circumstances in 1996, I cant see that it was unsuitable or 
inappropriate advice in his particular circumstances. It was for him to decide whether or not 
he wanted to top up his pension in retirement.
The original contribution was below the amount recommended on the ready reckoner, so I 
cant see that this wouldve made the level of contribution unsuitable or unaffordable for 
someone in Xs circumstances, particularly as he said he had a good level of income and 
savings. 
The increase to 9% was also the recommended maximum additional contribution amount for 
him, so I cant see that this level of contribution was unsuitable or unaffordable either. By 
then Xs annual salary had increased to £37,500, according to the amendment form.
The contributions were taken out of his monthly salary and his payslips wouldve shown 
these deductions. X couldve changed his mind at any time and stopped paying into the 
TAVC, if he considered he didnt need to top up his pension.
X said he had a medical condition at the time of sale and later left the teaching profession 
due to ill health. He says he wouldve been better off taking out added years. The paperwork 
showed that this option was available. It may be that with the benefit of hindsight X may 
have been better off taking added years, however the adviser didnt carry out a full financial 
review and cant have known how things would end up.
Since 2007, X has been receiving an annuity on top of his TAVC, so while he
may not have wanted the TAVC, or benefited from paying into it as much as he wouldve 
liked, I cant see that he has lost out financially.
Personal Financial Review
The form X signed in 1996 gave him two options. He could have a Personal Financial 
Review or the adviser could assist him with Completion of the application form only. The 
box was selected for the second option. Both were equally prominent on the form.
X said his adviser ticked this box, and he wasnt asked about this. I cant know what was 
discussed, but as Ive said previously the form was relatively short and it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect X to read it before signing it. So, based on the information now 
available, I cant fairly say Prudential did anything wrong by not conducting a Personal 
Financial Review in 1996, when X took out the TAVC.
When X increased his contributions in 1998, he said no mention was made of the option of a 
Personal Financial Review. The application form doesnt contain any information about this. 
And I cant know what was discussed. But, I cant see that Xs lost out because of that. He 
already had the TAVC by then and was increasing his contribution level to the level initially 
recommended (when he said he didnt want a Personal Financial Review).
Pressure to take out the TAVC for commercial reasons
X said that pressure was placed on him to take out he TAVC because the adviser would get 
commission from the sales.
Like with many other financial products, the advisers wouldve got commission through the 
sales. But, as the advisers advice appeared not to be unsuitable or inappropriate, I cant 
fairly find that X was mis-sold the TAVC simply because the advisers received commission.Looked at overall, I cant see that Prudential did anything wrong here. So, it follows that I do 
not uphold Xs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman