DRN-3878800
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have failed to refund over £15,000 he lost 
to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr P authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallets using his Lloyds debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammers from those wallets). The payments were requested by him using 
his legitimate security credentials, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mr P 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr P has lost over £15,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over 11 separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ps 
account activity, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments 
were not of such an amount, for example, that any of them would represent a 
significant deviation from the way Mr Ps account was normally run. 
So, having considered the payments Mr P made to his CB Payments and Binance 
wallets, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have 
triggered Lloyds fraud monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in 
the process of being scammed. Therefore, I dont think its failure to look more closely 
into the payments can be considered the proximate cause of Mr Ps loss in these 
circumstances.
Lloyds are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr P under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the code only applies to 
authorised push payments (of which these were not, given they were made via debit 
card). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman