DRN-3758676
The complaint
Mr B, via a representative, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt 
do enough to protect him when he fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed the money he 
lost.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although Ive only set out the key points. I have read 
and considered whats been provided in full. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that 
Mr B authorised the payments which were made using his NatWest debit card. So, 
the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that 
hes liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect NatWest to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold NatWest liable. 
Ive considered whether NatWest ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. Part of the reason I say this is 
based on who the payments were going to. Mr B made these payments expecting 
them to ultimately reach a company Ill call C. I note that theres a warning on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register about C, but this warning was added in 
February 2022  which is after the payments were made. And, crucially, the 
payments werent being made to C as far as NatWest would have been aware  they 
were being made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, who Ill call E. So I dont 
think NatWest ought to have intervened based on any warnings about the recipient of 
the funds.
Im also not persuaded NatWest ought to have intervened when I consider the 
particular pattern of spending involved here. Having looked over the account 
statements, I can see that Mr B was making payments to E in the months leading up 
to the disputed transactions. There were 18 payments made between the middle of 
November 2021 and the end of December 2021  and none of these were disputed. 
So, making payments to E in January 2022 wouldnt have appeared unusual, and 
making payments for cryptocurrency wasnt a new activity. I accept the total of the 
two payments, made on the same date, was larger than the maximum daily amount 
Mr B had previously paid to E  as it was around £7,600. However, the sum went to 
an existing payee that Mr B had made multiple transactions to in recent months. 
I also note that Mr B had made multiple payments in one day before  indeed, on the 
first day he paid E, he made payments totalling over £3,000 across four payments. 
And there were several other occasions where multiple payments were made on the 
same day. So, given the existing pattern of spending, Im not persuaded NatWest 
ought to have been alert to a possible risk of fraud or a scam given the 
circumstances involved in this particular case. And I therefore wouldnt have 
expected it to intervene.
Ive thought about whether NatWest could reasonably have done more to help Mr B 
to recover the funds once it was made aware of the scam, which appears to have 
been several months later. But a chargeback would have been unlikely to succeed as 
the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider which carried out 
the service it was required to  the purchase of cryptocurrency. So, I dont think 
NatWest could reasonably have done more to recover the funds.
While Im very sorry about Mr Bs loss, based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think 
it was caused by a failing on NatWests part.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold his complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman