DRN-2501876
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was taken 
out during a meeting when Miss B applied for an unsecured loan. It covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Barclays 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Miss Bs attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Barclays didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Its advisor would have explained all the provisions of the policy and drawn Miss Bs 
attention to any restrictions and exclusions.
Its advisor would have thoroughly questioned Miss B about her health status before they 
recommended the PPI.
When Miss Bs CMC complained to Barclays, it said Miss B suffered from eczema. When 
the complaint was referred to this service, Miss B ticked the questionnaire to indicate she 
didnt have any health problems. Now shes saying she had two different conditions, not 
eczema, but she hasnt provided further information about these.
Miss B was in receipt of additional regular income, aside from her employment income, 
but its not clear what this income was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays recommended the policy to Miss B, so it had to make sure it was suitable for her.
The terms of the policy said it would not pay any benefit for a claim for:
any conditions you knew about before the start date or for which you got advice, treatment 
or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months immediately before the start date.
Miss B told us she suffered from two medical conditions in 2001. She didnt reply when we 
asked her for more detail about these conditions. I dont know when they were diagnosed or 
how they affected her. But she did tell us that one of the conditions required an operation 
resulting in three months off work. From what Miss B has told us, I think its likely that both 
conditions were diagnosed before 2001 and that neither would have been covered by the 
policy.
I think, on balance, that its more likely than not that Miss B would have anticipated that any 
time off work would likely be due to one of these conditions, or something connected to 
them. So I think these conditions would have affected her decision to take the policy.
I find that, had the exclusion terms been brought to Miss B's attention, its more likely than 
not that she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Ive taken into account that the testimony here has not been consistent. But the complaint to 
Barclays was completed by Miss Bs representative and it looks like it made an error when it 
referred to the wrong medical condition. And, because Miss B ticked the No box on our 
form to say she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition, we asked her to clarify  as 
shed previously told her representative she did have a condition. Im persuaded that her 
response to our question, when she provided further information about her two conditions, is 
accurate.
Ive also considered what Barclays says about what its advisor would have discussed at the 
time. And its provided us with the training its advisor would have received. But this does not 
change my conclusion  because I think if the pre-existing medical condition exclusion had 
been brought to Miss Bs attention, she wouldnt have taken the policy. It follows that the 
exclusion clause cant have been sufficiently brought to Miss Bs attention to ensure she 
understood it.
Barclays has raised a query about a regular source of income Miss B was receiving around 
the time she took the PPI. But this does not have a bearing on my conclusion.
Putting things right
Miss B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been 
and she paid more than she should have each month. So Miss B needs to get back the extra 
shes paid. 
So, Barclays should:
Work out and pay Miss B the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss B paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman