DRN-3771837
The complaint
Ms G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt tell her what she 
needed to know about her investments and the time taken to deal with her complaint.
What happened
Ms G said she switched her pension investments into cash in March 2020. She said her old 
funds had quite a lot of equity exposure so she wanted to switch to avoid loss. She was 
assured this was what would happen when she made the change. She said that if she had 
been told that the fund she was moving into could fall in value she would have left her 
money invested where it was. Her fund had increased a lot in 2020 so it was bordering on 
negligent to have allowed her to change investments under the impression that she was 
protecting her fund from any further loss by transferring into what she was told was a cash 
fund. In addition she was still paying an annual management charge in the cash fund despite 
the lack of service. She didnt think this was justified. The charges were not mentioned on 
the statement that she received. She also complained about the time taken to respond to her 
complaint.
Aviva said Ms G complained she wasnt advised she could have been placed in the default 
investment fund but it said there wasnt one when the plan started. All its policies fluctuate 
on a daily basis. It said it offered an execution only service and couldnt give advice on 
funds. It said she was sent the fund fact sheets before she changed funds and added a link 
to the fund centre to view them if needed. The cash fund fact sheet made clear there was an 
annual management charge and warned the value was not guaranteed and could fall as well 
as rise. It issued an acknowledgement of her complaint within the required timescale. 
The investigator said he wasnt going to ask Aviva to take further action. He said that when 
Ms G asked to switch to cash in mid-March 2020 she was sent a fund alteration statement. 
This included a statement warning that the plan invests in unit linked funds which can 
increase and fall in value and so the value wasnt guaranteed. She was also sent annual 
statements in 2020 and 2021 both of which contained a similar warning. He also said Ms G 
had access to the fund fact sheets and Aviva were not acting in an advisory capacity. He 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect them to go into detail about the funds unless they 
were asked.
With respect to the annual management charges Aviva sent a link to the fund fact sheets 
before she made the switch and the AMCs were shown as applied to the fund. This link was 
provided on 10 March before the  switch was made. So Ms G had enough information to 
make an informed decision. He also felt the charges were clearly explained on the fact 
sheet.
With respect to the default pension. Ms G took out her policy on an execution only basis so 
wasnt required to provide advice on the fund choices. He didnt think there was a 
requirement to provide a default investment option, even if it was a stakeholder pension.
Complaint handling isnt something this service can consider. But he commented that it had 
responded within the relevant timeframes for complaints. 
Ms G didnt agree. She said the issue of the pension being a stakeholder pension had not 
been fully considered. How could it be a business decision what Aviva charged if there were 
caps on the charges. Stakeholders were designed to be simple and easy to use without the 
need for advice.  She disputed the statement that stakeholders didnt have to have a default 
investment option. She referred to the relevant regulations. The fact the scheme was offered 
on a non advised basis didnt mean they did not need to offer a default option. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has raised a number of issues. Before I consider these I have set out some further 
background details which will assist in considering these.
I have seen:-
Ms Gs application to set up a stakeholder personal pension from around 2008. She 
transferred around £9,169 from another pension into the plan at that time. 
The application forms shows she selected 3 investment funds these were 
a. A balanced index fund 
b. stewardship income fund and 
c. global equity 50:50 index fund
There is a further 2008 letter from Ms G, where she says she wishes to put 30% into 
a cautious index rather than the global equity 50:50 index fund.
The form also asked if she wanted to choose a Lifestyle Investment Programme. 
She ticked to say she would like a lifestyle investment programme and she selected 
the 3-year programme (the other options were 10 year and 5 year).
The notes to this section say
Important When your Lifestyle Investment Programme starts your pension funds will 
automatically be proportionately switched in line with your instruction. 
The Key features contain a section on investments headed Where is my money 
invested? This says 
We invest your payments in the funds you choose from our range. If you haven't 
made a choice, well automatically invest all payments using the Aviva Stakeholder 
Mixed Investments Universal Lifestyle Approach, which has been selected as our 
default investment strategy.
Yearly reviews of the plan, for the period to 21 September 2020 and 2021. These 
shows a value of around:
a.  £20,450 in September 2019, 
b. £18,582.31 in 2020 and c. £18,392.32 in 2021. 
Both reviews show the fund invested in the Aviva Pension Cash FP and show an 
Annual Management Charge (AMC) of 1% per annum. The same as for the previous 
funds she held.
The yearly reviews also contain an illustration in todays prices. These show that at 
her selected retirement date her plan would be worth around over £16,000 . It says 
this is based on an assumption that investments grow by 1.50% each year and 
inflation is 2.50%. From these it is clear that based on the assumptions the plan 
value will reduce with time if the assumption were lived out and inflation and charges 
exceed the assumed investment return.
Fund Alteration notices  :-
12 March 2020 Fund showing her investments moving from:
a. Multi Asset Index Growth Fund, 
b. Multi Asset Index Cautious Fund and 
c. Stewardship Fund 
 The money is moved to:-
a.  Fixed Interest and  
b. Future Consolidation fund.
The value of these on 11/3/20 was around £19,050.
There is a further alteration notice for 16 March 2020 showing a further move from
a. the Fixed Interest and
b.  Future Consolidation Fund 
The money is moved to :-
c. the Cash FP fund. 
The value at that time was around £18,642.
a. The Fund fact sheet for the Cash Fund says that it is invested 
in money market instruments, bonds and cash. It may invest in short-term bonds 
issued or backed by the UK Government or supranational agencies, cash and near 
cash assets such as deposits and certificates of deposit.
The aim of lower risk funds such as this fund is typically to provide growth at a similar 
level to bank and building society interest rates by investing in cash and cash 
alternatives. Returns and capital values are not guaranteed. You should be 
aware that the charges you pay on the fund and product may be more than the 
investment return you receive.
The fund sheet explains the costs both the annual management charge and additional expenses. 
I have listened to various telephone recordings of conversations between Ms G and 
Aviva in 2020.  These cover a variety of issues relating to information about the different 
funds and the value when she makes the change. Ms G expresses concern about falling 
values in the market at the time. She is clearly articulate and intelligent and seeking to 
get the information she needs to make a decision on her investments but frustrated by 
waiting for call backs from Aviva and the need to speak to different teams. I note she 
asks about risk ratings and exposure of her current funds to UK equities. She says she 
knows Aviva cannot give financial advice and refers to an old report she had from a 
financial adviser regarding her current funds She says she has decided she wants to 
move to funds with a lower risk rating than her current funds. 
From the above information it seems clear Ms G has a Stakeholder Pension. 
Ms G is correct to say that a Stakeholder Pension should offer a default option. It is clear 
that such an option did exist for this plan. I say that because it is referred to in the plan key 
features document I have quoted above. Defaults are put in place to prevent contributions 
remaining uninvested where a fund choice has not been made at the outset.
The application form shows she selected her own funds when the plan was started so the 
default option was not used. Based on what she said in one of the calls she had also taken 
financial advice at some point about her fund selection. She has continued to make fund 
selections when she made changes twice in 2020. I would not expect the default option to be 
relevant where the plan holder has made their own investment selection, as Ms G has. 
I would also comment that Ms G implies that she could have been better off in this option 
rather than the cash fund. But that has not been tested. At the time of the switch in funds she 
was more than 5 years away from her selected retirement date so it would seem likely any 
default fund would have had an equity element. Based on the calls it was clear she wished 
to avoid this at the time of the changes in 2020. I say that because this is what she talks 
about in one of the calls. So it would seem unlikely any default fund would have met her 
objectives.
I note she did also tick a box about a lifestyle approach for a period of 3 years on her 
application form. I have assumed that this would apply for the 3 years prior to her retirement 
date. At the time of her investment switches in 2020 this time wasnt reached. So I dont 
think it affects this complaint. 
Ms G complains about the move into the cash fund. She says she was not told the cash fund 
could still lose money. She says this was very clearly her objective to avoid losses and she 
said she was assured of this when she did the transfer. She felt she was entitled to rely on 
what was said. Further she said cash is normally just that and not unit linked. 
It is clear from the calls that Ms G knew Aviva couldnt provide financial advice, because she 
says so. The calls show she clearly understands the fund selection is hers but does ask for 
help in getting information about the funds. I have not seen or listened to any evidence Aviva 
advised her as to which funds to select nor that the cash fund would avoid losses. As it 
wasnt giving financial advice the decision was hers alone and Aviva were not responsible 
for this. So I dont think there is any way it could have prevented her from moving funds and 
didnt therefore allow the change as she suggests.
The fund fact sheet is clear this is not simply a cash deposit into an interest-bearing account. 
Instead it lists bonds etc as the underlying investments. The fund fact sheet clearly shows 
there is an annual management charge. So Ms G should have been aware of both of these issues. Further the yearly plan statements I considered above also make clear there is an 
AMC. Given the nature of the fund and the fact it isnt a cash deposit account the need for an 
AMC is not surprising. The amount of the AMC is an issue for the business but must not 
exceed the cap set out in the regulations governing stakeholder pensions.
Ms G complains about a fall in value in the fund. She says it has not been explained to her 
how you could lose money while invested in cash and therefore the AMC wasnt justified. But 
as the fact sheet shows, this fund isnt a simple interest-bearing deposit account and warns it 
can fall in value.
Ms G has not specified what she means by the fall in value. Given that this complaint was 
made in 2022, I assume it refers to the fact the annual statements show that the plan value 
has fallen between 2020 and 2021. When she first moved into the cash fund it had a value of 
around £18,642, by the September 2020 it was around £18,580, and around £18,390 by 
2021. These represent falls of around £62 and £190. 
I note that the annual statements contain growth projections that show the plan will fall in 
value based on assumptions about interest rates and inflation. Given the fund fact sheet, 
prevailing interest rates at the time and the application of an AMC of 1% I think Ms G might 
reasonably have expected her fund might fall in value each year. In one of the calls she says 
she was considering a move to a Self-Invested Personal pension (SIPP) and talks about the 
impact of the interaction between an interest rate and platform fee. So I think it is clear that 
she understood the interaction between growth and charges and the impact this can have on 
her fund value.
So I think the falls in value are in line with both the fund fact sheet and annual statements. I 
think the statement in the fact sheet warning You should be aware that the charges you pay 
on the fund and product may be more than the investment return you receive has very likely 
been demonstrated by what has happened.
Ms G says she should have been placed into the default scheme when she requested it. She 
says she was told by Aviva she was not eligible to be placed into this but that wasnt correct. 
I have not seen any evidence that Ms G asked to go into the default fund though it is clear 
she asked if there was one. Further the evidence from the telephone calls in 2020 is that by 
2020 she was making specific requests to move into other funds and wished to select a fund 
with a lower risk rating than her current fund and with lower equity exposure. So even if I am 
wrong and she did make such a request she was no longer seeking it in 2020. As Aviva 
were not providing financial advice it could not have made the change to another fund 
without her express instructions.
Ms G also complained about how Aviva had handled her complaint. But it seems that it has 
issued replies to her questions in a timely manner.
I think Aviva has treated Ms G in a fair and reasonable manner. I cannot uphold this 
complaint for the reasons given above. In summary I dont think it allowed her to change 
funds and I have no supporting evidence that she was told the cash fund was just that. All 
the supporting papers show that the nature of the fund and AMC were clearly explained and 
contained warnings about the impact of charges in a low growth context. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman