DRN-4363092
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited has both reduced and delayed 
the settlement it offered on their home insurance claim for storm damage to their property.
What happened
There have been several businesses or individuals involved in this claim, acting as agents or 
representatives of either Ageas or Ms B and Mr B. But for ease of reference, Ill only refer to 
Ageas and Ms B and Mr B by name in this decision, even when referring to evidence or 
arguments put forward by their representatives.
Ms B and Mr B made a claim for damage to the roof of their property, and internal water 
damage, following a period of poor weather.
Ageas accepted there was a valid claim under the storm section of Ms B and Mr Bs policy 
and began the process of arranging repairs. However, its contractor later pointed out that the 
roof was sagging due to age-related gradual deterioration, not as result of the storm. So, 
Ageas explained that Ms B and Mr B would need to carry out repairs to the roof structure 
first, before it could repair/replace the damage it accepted was caused by the storm, such as 
dislodged tiles and the internal damage. Or it said it could offer a cash settlement. 
Ms B and Mr B didnt accept Ageass position. They want it to fix the roof in its entirety.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it in part. She said Ageas decision on 
the claim was reasonable, so she didnt think it needed to repair the entire roof. She also 
said it wasnt unreasonable for it to delay repairs to the roof covering until Ms B and Mr B 
had remedied the sagging. But she said Ageas should pay Ms B and Mr B £100 to 
compensate for the loss of expectation it caused when initially indicating it would cover all 
the damage.
Ms B and Mr B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond, before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator in relation to the 
roof repairs required. However, Im minded to award a higher level of compensation 
than our investigator did. Ill explain why.
When our service considers complaints about storm damage claims, we take into 
account the following questions. If any of the answers are no then its likely a claim 
wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
In this case, it isnt in dispute that there were storm conditions, or that parts of Ms B 
and Mr Bs roof, and the interior of their home, were damaged by the storm. But 
Ageass position is that the roof is also showing signs of age-related deterioration, 
which isnt covered by the policy. Essentially, this means its saying that not all of the 
damage to the roof is consistent with storm damage, and that the storm was not the 
main or dominant cause of that damage.
Ive carefully considered the available photos and expert evidence. Based on this, Im 
persuaded that the sagging of the roof isnt consistent with damage typically caused 
by a one-off storm event. And it follows that Im also persuaded that the storm in 
question was not the main, or dominant, cause of that damage. Instead, on balance, I 
find it more likely to have happened gradually over time. 
The storm or flood section of Ms B and Mr Bs policy contains the following exclusion 
(with my added emphasis), under the heading What is not insured:
Loss or damage:
- to gates or fences;
- caused by subsidence, ground heave or
landslip (this damage is covered under
cause 6);
- that happens gradually over a period of time; or
- that does not arise from one identifiable event
which directly and immediately caused the loss
or damage.
- caused by weight of snow.
Based on the above, I think Ageass decision not to cover the damage which 
happened gradually, rather than as a result of the one-off storm event, was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and was fair and reasonable.
Ageas has accepted there is a valid claim for some areas of storm damage and has 
offered to either cash settle the claim for those, or to carry out the required works 
once Ms B and Mr B have remedied the sagging roof (gradual damage). The latter 
offer is because its contractors would not be able to provide a guarantee for the claim 
related repairs if they were carried out before the gradual damage was fixed.
I consider that Ageas has made two fair and reasonable offers here. So, I think Ms B 
and Mr B should decide which option is preferable, and let Ageas know. Ageas 
should then settle the claim in line with Ms B and Mr Bs preference and the offer it 
has already made.
Ms B and Mr B are also unhappy with delays and the level of service theyve 
received. Particularly that they were told the claim had been accepted in full, before 
later being advised some damage wasnt covered.It seems it took around four months before Ageas made its position on the claim fully 
clear and offered either a cash settlement, or to carry out the works once Ms B and 
Mr B fixed the non-claim related damage. I think this is too long, and that Ms B and 
Mr B have been unfairly impacted by this delay. I think Ageas ought to have 
distinguished the gradual damage from the claim related damage and reached the 
position it ultimately reached on the claim much sooner than it did.
I also agree with our investigator that Ms B and Mr B have suffered a loss of 
expectation as a result of the initial surveyor confirming the claim was covered in full, 
before Ageas (fairly in my opinion) later amended this to exclude the gradual 
damage.
Taking everything that happened into account, I dont agree the £100 suggested by 
our investigator, and accepted by Ageas, is sufficient to compensate Ms B and Mr B 
for the impact of Ageass poor handling of this claim. In order to fairly resolve this 
complaint, I think Ageas should pay Ms B and Mr B £200 instead.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision. 
Ageas responded to confirm it accepted my provisional conclusions.
 
Ms B and Mr B did not respond, and the deadline to do so has now passed, so Im moving 
forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision, and Ms B and Mr B havent provided any further 
response. So, in the absence of any new evidence or arguments to consider, Ive reached 
the same conclusions outlined in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Ms B and Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must:
Settle Ms B and Mr Bs claim in line with their preferred method and the offer it has 
already made
Pay Ms B and Mr B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman