DRN-3579228
The complaint
Miss H complains about the service Nationwide Building Society provided during her 
mortgage application process and when releasing the mortgage funds.
What happened
Miss H applied for a mortgage for a new property with Nationwide Building Society in 
October 2021. Nationwide offered to lend her £185,000. She was due to exchange and 
complete the sale of her existing property and the purchase on 4 February 2022. 
In late January Miss Hs solicitor let Nationwide know that the deposit was being gifted to 
her. Delays in processing that information led to Nationwide reassessing her mortgage 
application, and declining to lend the amount of the original offer, shortly before completion 
was due to take place. 
Miss Hs solicitors werent able to access the funds as theyd expected. A message sent to 
Miss Hs mortgage adviser on 3 February had advised there was a problem with the amount 
Miss H was borrowing. But the mortgage adviser was on leave and the message wasnt 
passed on to Miss H. She tried unsuccessfully to get in touch with the alternative contact 
Nationwide gave her by phone to find out what had happened. In the end she had to leave 
work to go into a Nationwide branch to try and resolve things.
Miss H was able to go ahead based on the reduced amount Nationwide would lend, but she 
had to find additional funds elsewhere. And she questioned if Nationwides delays had 
caused the offer to be reduced unnecessarily. 
Nationwide had to issue a new offer for the reduced amount, which threatened to delay 
completion of the property transactions. They were able to issue one in time. But a 
processing problem meant funds werent released on the morning of completion as 
Nationwide said they had been. Instead they were available in the late afternoon. The delay 
meant the transactions didnt go ahead that day. Miss H and her family had to spend the 
weekend living in the house theyd already packed up. And they had to buy essential items 
and spend money on eating out.
Miss H complained to Nationwide about what had happened. She said she and her family 
had suffered a great deal of distress because of Nationwides mistakes and the poor service 
they provided throughout the mortgage application process. And the weekend they spent in 
their unfurnished property was uncomfortable and distressing. Nationwide acknowledged the 
poor service theyd provided and initially offered Miss H compensation of £375 made up of 
£250 compensation and £125 expenses. Nationwide said theyd consider paying additional 
expenses if Miss H provided evidence of those shed incurred. And their underwriters would 
review whether their decision to offer a reduced mortgage was correct. They later confirmed 
it had been. 
Miss H didnt accept Nationwides offer of compensation or the increased offers they made. 
She brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator thought it was fair 
for Nationwide to pay Miss H £550 compensation for distress and inconvenience, the £125 
for expenses Nationwide had offered and any further expenses Miss H had incurred if she 
could provide a valid receipt.
Nationwide agreed, but Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. She thought the 
compensation ought to reflect the difference between the mortgage Nationwide had 
originally offered her and the amount they agreed to lend in the end, around £7,000, given 
shed had less than 24 hours to find that amount to save her sale and purchase. Since Miss 
H didnt accept our investigators view, her complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss Hs strength of feeling about her complaint. I agree Nationwide provided 
poor service. I dont set out here everything that happened as its well known to the parties. 
But, by way of example:
Although they didnt become aware Miss H would be receiving gifts towards the 
deposit on her purchase until late January, Nationwide didnt process that information 
quickly enough given their own timescales and the planned completion date they 
were aware of. Miss H and her solicitors had to chase for progress to be made.
Nationwide didnt let Miss H know theyd need to issue a revised offer. She spent 
time and effort trying to get through on the phone to Nationwide on 3 February to find 
out what had gone wrong with the funds. And, in the end, she had to visit branch to 
resolve things. 
An issue within Nationwide meant the mortgage funds werent released until late in 
the day on the day of exchange and completion. The transaction didnt complete that 
day as funds didnt clear up the chain of buyers and sellers.
Nationwide agreed the waiting times on their telephone lines were long; thered been a delay 
in processing the gift information; theyd failed to pass on information about the mortgage 
offer to Miss H when her mortgage adviser was on leave; and they hadnt taken ownership of 
the application. They acknowledged theyd upset Miss H further when communication during 
the complaint handling process had been unprofessional.
Miss Hs complaint is about the service she received. I note she questioned if Nationwides 
mistakes had led to her mortgage offer reducing. And Nationwide confirmed the gifts had 
affected the amount they were prepared to lend. I acknowledge she was put in a difficult 
position in having to find the difference between her original and revised offers. But we 
wouldnt assess compensation by reference to that figure as Miss H feels would be fair. We 
consider whats fair and reasonable based on the impact Nationwides mistakes had on her, 
bearing in mind her individual circumstances.
Ive considered everything Miss H has told us about that. I can understand she suffered a 
great deal of distress as a result of the delays and poor service Nationwide provided from 
late January up to the sale completing in early February. Shes explained her worry about 
losing the sale and purchase altogether and pressures being put on her by other parties 
involved in the sale and purchase chain. Shes told us about the effect her own health 
condition and the particular needs of a family member had on the level of stress she 
suffered. I can understand being forced to spend a weekend in an unfurnished house will 
have been particularly uncomfortable and difficult. And Miss H had to buy essential items for her family, and they had to eat out instead of preparing meals at home which caused extra 
expense.
Bearing everything in mind, its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay compensation to 
Miss H for distress and inconvenience, as theyve acknowledged. And I think the level of 
compensation our investigator recommended is appropriate in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay Miss H £550 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience plus the £125 theyve already offered for her expenses. If Miss H has 
incurred expenses exceeding £125, Nationwide should pay the additional amount if Miss H 
can provide evidence, such as receipts, for the expenses she incurred.
My final decision
I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Miss H a total of £675 to include £550 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and £125 for the expenses she incurred. If 
Miss H can provide evidence she incurred expenses exceeding £125, Nationwide should 
then pay the additional amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman