DRN-2905668
The complaint
Miss L complains that Indigo Michael Limited, trading as Safety Net (SNC), approved the
credit facility for her when she could not afford it.
Miss L complains that she was unable to access credit when she needed it. And SNC froze 
her account without warning. Shes unhappy with the way that SNC handled her account.
Miss L says that SNC took random amounts from my bank account without notification.
Miss L complains that her mental health issues and dyslexia were not considered.
Miss L says she has not been given compensation for the fact that the credit facility was 
approved at all and for the general distress she has experienced from it. Miss L is asking
that any repayments made to SNC are reimbursed to her.
What happened
Miss L was approved for a credit facility with SNC. She applied for it on 7 July 2020 and 
finalised the application on 4 August 2020 which is when it was approved for her with a 
credit limit of £250 on 5 August 2020.
The credit SNC offered was a running account credit facility where a consumer could either 
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could be deposited into their nominated bank 
account once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers 
choosing.
There was the option for the customer to make manual withdrawals. The expectation for 
customers was that they must repay at least a minimum amount each month. A feature of 
the credit facility was that if the consumers bank account balance dropped below a pre-set 
amount then SNC would effectively transfer money into that account to keep it above a 
certain balance. This was a feature often used to avoid straying into an unauthorised 
overdraft. Or if the pre-set limit was set to avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised 
overdraft then the net effect was the same - avoidance of unauthorised overdraft fees and
charges.
SNC received Miss Ls complaint (which included the unaffordability element) on
13 August 2020 and replied with its final response letter (FRL) dated 30 September 2020 in 
which it said that her complaint had merit and it offered the resolution which was a full 
uphold of her complaint. It set out the details of the remining principal sums outstanding, the 
refund of the interest element Miss L had paid to that date (£6.43 plus 8% additional interest 
added (one pence)). SNC set-off what it owed to Miss L against what she owed to SNC. 
That left Miss L with about £126 still to pay. SNC went on to say that all entries on Miss Ls 
credit file would be removed. This was offered in full and final settlement of her complaint.
Miss L did not accept it and referred her complaint to this Service in October 2020.
It took time for this Service to assess the complaint. In June 2021 one of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and thought that as it was a full uphold from SNC that there was 
nothing more he could ask SNC to do. And in relation to Miss Ls request for the balance to 
be written off, he explained that this is not what we usually ask regulated firms to do. Miss L 
had borrowed the money and so it was due to be repaid.
Miss L replied to explain that due to another issue (which I need not refer to here) then SNC 
had agreed to clear the debt and close my account as compensation for the stress.
However, Miss L was not content and so our adjudicator wrote a second time. He 
maintained that the original offer was still fair. That now Miss L had no balance to pay he did 
not think there was anything further he could ask SNC to do. He indicated that he was not 
going to be asking SNC to reimburse her with the money she had already paid to SNC or for 
any compensation.
Miss L replied to acknowledge ..that the balance with the principle loan is resolved, anyway. 
Miss L went on to say she still needed more to be re-considered: The remaining issue is 
regarding compensation for the money already paid back, including the interest, and 
compensation for the stress of the entire situation.
Miss L has explained that in 2020 she sought, and had received, advice from a debt advice 
charity. And she has told us that she has sought medical support.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 24 September 2021 outlining why I was planning not to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. That provisional decision is set out in the next section of this decision with smaller 
print size to differentiate it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision findings dated 24 September 2021
Miss L has sent to us many documents and bank statements which have been useful. I have 
reviewed them all and I can see that Miss L was using her ISA (savings) account for everyday 
expenses. I can see that the balance on that account reduced a lot and I was sorry to see that by the 
time Miss L was finalising this SNC credit facility agreement then she had very little in that account. 
I mention it so that Miss L knows that I understand how difficult her financial position was and that she 
had limited resources. It places her August 2020 situation into context.
I got a signed copy of the credit agreement with SNC. It was signed by Miss L on 4 August 2020 and 
finalised by SNC on 5 August 2020 after which Miss L received an email with details of the agreement 
and how to access her dashboard electronically on 5 August 2020. 
Miss L appears to have used her credit facility between 5 and 12 August 2020. Miss L complained to 
SNC on 13 August 2020. I have received a copy of the on-line transactions from SNC (a copy of that 
can be sent to her if she asks our adjudicator for it). I have cross referenced these transactions with 
her bank account statements for the period. I have created a brief table showing the dates when her 
bank statements show the money was credited to her account and when she paid SNC back. The 
formal excel spreadsheet from SNC is more accurate and includes the interest but this summary is 
taken from Miss Ls bank statements and are in simpler form. It means that I am satisfied that Miss L 
borrowed £640 between 5 and 11 August and she repaid to SNC £513.96.
Date (2020) In from SNC Out to SNC
5 Aug £2505 Aug £100
6 Aug £52.80
6 Aug £100
6 Aug £200
7 Aug £20
7 Aug £72
10 Aug £178
10 Aug £20.16
10 Aug £8
11 Aug £20
11 Aug £133
Principal borrowed £640 Total paid to SNC £513.96
During the time the complaint was with this Service, she complained again to SNC about its continual 
reporting of missed or late payments to her credit file, despite SNC having informed her that this 
would be suspended during the time the complaint was with this Service. SNC accepted that it 
needed to make amends on that and so came up with a resolution. It cleared her debt and SNC 
removed the SNC reference from her credit file completely. Miss L has expressed satisfaction at that 
and this Service was not involved in that second complaint.
The current position is that SNC has upheld her irresponsible lending complaint (FRL dated 
30 September 2020) and has, since that date, written off the outstanding balance and SNC has 
written to me recently to confirm that the account was removed from her credit file last year and 
before the matter came to this Service. So, it appears Miss L has nothing further to pay. Miss L 
agrees and has said recently the balance with the principle loan is resolved, anyway.
Miss L has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint as she remains discontent with the 
outcome so far. Miss L feels that SNC ought to pay her compensation for the money she has paid 
back to it, and for the general stress of the entire situation. And Miss L has also said that a big part of 
her complaint was the way SNC handled her account. She describes this as They deducted huge 
amounts and then froze my account without warning, meaning I had to take out another loan due to 
having less money than expected. and I had to take out other loans and got in to debt with missed 
payments.
Irresponsible lending and outstanding balance and credit file
As the irresponsible lending complaint has been upheld by SNC I need not look into that part as SNC 
has agreed to put things right.
The second complaint I have outlined earlier was not one with which this Service was involved. The 
relevance is that Miss L has nothing further to pay to SNC. It has confirmed the credit facility no longer 
appears on her credit file.
Suspension of the credit facility
Miss L complained to SNC on 13 August 2020 and she received an email from SNC on
16 August 2020 to say that due to the nature of her complaint the account would effectively be 
suspended. Miss L thinks that suspension took place earlier than this date because she says that she 
couldnt use the credit facility around 12 or 13 August 2020. She needed that money and it put her 
into hardship as she could not buy essentials and could not use the money to pay off another loan.
The SNC records of the account transactions present a picture of a well-run account by Miss L. I have 
cross referenced the SNC account transactions with Miss Ls bank statement transactions. I have 
seen the correspondence between Miss L and SNC in the lead up to the 5 August 2020 agreement 
confirmation date. And various additional documents and links to documents were sent to her in which 
the credit agreement was explained to her. So, I think that SNC did what was expected of it. So, I do not think that SNC can be blamed for Miss L 
not fully understanding the account and how it worked at the beginning as SNC did not know she had 
mental health issues and dyslexia until she told it in her complaint letter.
I cannot see any evidence of SNC suspending Miss Ls account or refusing to allow her to draw down 
additional funds on (or around) 12 August 2020 which is what Miss L says happened and precipitated 
her complaint. I say this because on 10 August 2020 Miss L paid into her SNC account £133 and on 
11 August 2020 withdrew £20 from that credit facility. It left her with around £129 credit facility to draw 
down if she had needed it. I have seen no evidence from SNCs records to suggest she was 
prevented from doing that on or around 12 August 2020. And I asked SNC directly about this and it 
says that We have no direct record of refusal of deposits. If there had been a block after SNC had 
suspended the account then that would be understandable. I explain here.
Miss L has described that SNC froze her account without warning,. SNC has explained that her 
ability to withdraw funds was suspended soon after it received her complaint. It wrote to inform her of 
this on 16 August 2020. I know that Miss L thinks she had no access earlier but I disagree and the 
records Ive seen do not suggest that.
So, I have looked to see if that suspension was justified and I think it was. I explain here.
I have seen Miss Ls original complaint letter from August 2020. As it related to an unaffordability 
complaint, it referred to her having only £18 left for her to use for her expenses and Miss L expressed 
concern about being left with nothing, I do not consider it unusual that SNC chose to ensure that 
Miss L did not get into any further debt. It did that by suspending her account.
In addition to which, the nature of her complaint was that she did not think the credit facility ought to 
have been approved for her in the first place and so for SNC to stop her using it seems a logical 
extension upon receipt of a complaint of that nature.
And I can see that SNC wrote to her to tell her that she was unable to borrow further due to the nature 
of her complaint which was ongoing.
So, for all these reasons, I am planning not to uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint.
Continuous payment authority (CPA)
Miss L has referred to SNC having taken out random amounts from my bank account without 
notification. That will have been linked with a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) that was signed 
when she entered the credit facility. I have read the agreements terms and it states 
Use of CPA: When you enter into this Agreement you provide us with a continuous payment 
authority (CPA) so that we can collect repayments automatically from your bank account 
when we see your Bank Balance increase, in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, 
using the debit card you nominate for this purpose. By signing this Agreement you are 
consenting to the use of CPA.
SNC has confirmed this was the case and that manual payments not using the CPA can be made by 
the customer.
And the records and details I have lead me to think that SNC did not take random amounts from my 
bank account without notification. And if any money was removed from her bank account by SNC it 
would have been with the authority from the CPA which Miss L had agreed to by agreeing to the 
terms of the credit facility.
So, I am planning not to uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint. Mental health and dyslexia issues
In relation to Miss Ls mental health and dyslexia  SNC has informed me that it became aware of 
them from what she had told it in her complaint letter. It has said to me that she was placed on a 
vulnerable category list and her account was passed to a specialist team to assist her with account 
management. I have evidence of that from SNC.
It has explained to me that There was no action required from them due the balance being written off 
as an additional gesture of goodwill ahead of acceptance, bear in mind a balance would have 
remained payable under the original final response.
What SNC may have done wrong in relation to the other complaint (the credit reporting) it has put 
right. We were not involved with that aspect and I make no findings on it.
I do not think it likely that SNC would have known about Miss Ls mental health issues and dyslexia 
unless she had told them at the time of the application process. It seems she did not and when Miss L 
did inform SNC it did do something about it.
So, I am not planning to do anything or direct anything in relation to this part of Miss Ls complaint.
additional compensation and reimbursement
Miss L wants additional compensation and reimbursement of the money she has already paid to SNC. 
Miss L explains that this relates to the initial approval of the credit and the account management. She 
has said to us: The remaining issue is regarding compensation for the money already paid back, 
including the interest, and compensation for the stress of the entire situation.
SNC has already agreed that it ought not to have lent to her because of the financial state she was in 
when she applied, and so that has been resolved. So, its not reasonable or fair for any additional 
compensation to be awarded in relation to the original facility approval when SNC has already put that 
right.
SNC had already calculated that it refunded her £6.43 which is the interest element of the money 
borrowed using the facility. And since then has written off the debt, and the account is now cleared. 
That means that around £126 of principal Miss L owed to SNC will not be pursued.
Miss L has explained to SNC in her complaint letter on 13 August 2020 that:
I have dyslexia and was not able to see anywhere in the forms how the repayment option 
works. I believed it to be like a normal overdraft. I withdrew and repaid money every couple of 
days. And I repaid £133 yesterday, to keep the interest down. The available credit limit 
was still showing as 250.
Miss Ls own complaint letter reveals that she knew how to withdraw and pay into her SNC account. 
She kept a careful eye on the figures. And she knew that the £250 credit limit was still showing as 
available to her. The balance on the account may not have allowed her to withdraw the full £250  
only whatever amount she had left up to the £250 limit.
And I am aware that Miss L used this credit facility for about a week which is a very short time. I do 
not see that there are any grounds for thinking that SNC has managed the account poorly. My view is 
that SNC has done all, and more, than this Service would expect it to have done to put things right for 
Miss L. I do not think that SNC can be expected to refund to Miss L the other money Miss L has paid 
to SNC. I say this because those funds (around £500) were paid by Miss L to SNC to repay the capital 
sums she took from SNC (a total of £640 between 5 and 11 August 2020). If that is what Miss L is 
asking me to sanction then I do not accept that at all.
Miss L has had the £640 capital and has had the benefit of those sums to use for her own needs and 
requirements. Miss L has repaid a large part of it and the rest which was still due to SNC, it has 
chosen to write off and release Miss L from that debt.So, I do not agree that there are grounds for Miss L to receive a refund and there are no grounds for 
her to receive additional compensation, or for SNC to do more than it has done already.
I am planning not to uphold this part of Miss Ls complaint.
How have both parties responded?
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. As it was a provisional decision not 
to uphold the complaint then I did not necessarily expect SNC to reply. To ensure that Miss L 
received a copy of my provisional decision a second copy was sent to her last week. 
Miss L was reminded that Id be issuing my final decision. Miss L was afforded an extension 
to reply to 11 October 2021. 
In the absence of any additional comments or evidence from either party, I have no reason 
to alter any of my provisional findings set out in my provisional decision and in this final 
decision. Those findings form part of this final determination.   
My final decision
My final decision is that for the same reasons set out above I do not uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman