DRN-3832342
The complaint
Mrs H and Mrs H complain about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited, t/a Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) applied when they returned a car after their 
hire agreement ended.
What happened
Mrs H and Mrs H entered into a hire agreement in July 2019. The agreement was for 24 
months, and Mrs H and Mrs H returned the car in September 2021. Mrs H and Mrs H say 
theyre unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied when they returned the 
car. Mrs H and Mrs H told us:
when the car was due to be collected, it still had a private licence plate on it, and they 
were told to contact DVLA to have it removed;
Mrs H was about to go on holiday, and she asked MBFS whether thered be a charge 
if she delayed the return of the car, and she was told there wouldnt be additional 
charges because of this;
she returned the car several weeks later but was charged an additional vehicle usage 
fee of just under £250 along with charges for a missing car key and some damage;
MBFS said the car was collected in September 2021 by an independent third party and 
taken to a site for a detailed inspection. It said this inspection identified some damages 
requiring repairs totalling £615. MBFS said it had reviewed the charges and agreed to 
remove one of them. It says it wasnt satisfied that the inspection report provided sufficient 
detail about the number of car keys returned with the car. Because of this, it agreed to 
remove the charge for the missing car key - £260. 
MBFS said there was damage to one wheel, the front bumper and one of the wings that was 
all beyond fair wear and tear. It levied a charge of £355 +VAT to cover this damage. And it 
charged Mrs H and Mrs H a further £245.34 for the late return of the car.
MBFS said its Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) document detailed the expected return 
condition of Mrs H and Mrs Hs car, and it said this had been provided to Mrs H and Mrs H at 
the start of their agreement and again six months before it expired. It said information about 
this was also available online. MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified 
was clearly evidenced and had been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns 
Standards.
MBFS said it had no records of any agreement with Mrs H confirming thered be no charge 
in the event the cars return was delayed. It said it appreciated that a holiday and the need to 
change over private plates might have caused a delay, but it said its VRS advised that 
customers should allow extra time if it was their intention to assign, retain or transfer a 
cherished plate.
Mrs H and Mrs H accepted the charge for damage and were happy that the charge for the 
missing key had been removed. But they disagreed with the charge for the late return of the 
car and brought their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that in the absence of anything suggesting that MBFS had agreed to a delayed 
return, he thought it had acted fairly when charging for additional usage of the car beyond its 
agreed return date.
Mrs H and Mrs H disagree, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mrs H and Mrs H say it had been agreed that no additional charges would be applied if the 
car was returned late. MBFS disagrees and says no such discussions took place and no 
agreement on this was reached. So, the parties fundamentally dont agree. Where both 
parties disagree on something like this, my role is to decide what I think is more likely to 
have happened taking into account all the evidence.
Ive been supplied with the contact notes between MBFS and Mrs H and Mrs H from August 
2019 to June 2022. Ive looked at these very carefully, but Ive found no evidence of any 
agreement between the parties that late charges would be waived because the car was 
going to be returned late.
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mrs H and Mrs H in July 2019, set out 
in some detail the acceptable return condition of the car. And it also confirms the term of the 
hire agreement as being 24 months, as well as the payments due each month. Theres a 
section headed Breach of your contractual obligations and this states the following, If you 
fail to return the vehicle when required to do soadditional days hire charges calculated on 
a pro-rata basis of the monthly rental will be payable by you up until and including the day on 
which the vehicle is returned to us 
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mrs H and Mrs H to pay 
were applied fairly and in line with the terms of the agreement, and that MBFS has acted 
fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman