DRN-3878386
The complaint
Mr W complained that TSB Bank plc blocked his bank account until it completed a fraud 
check on a transaction. Mr W complained that when he called to complete the check it took 
longer than it should have, and the agent was condescending.
What happened
When Mr W attempted to make a regular on-line payment to a credit card with another 
provider in early 2021, TSB blocked his account and asked Mr W to call to verify the 
payment so that it could unblock the account. When Mr W called TSB the automated 
verification system transferred him to the wrong department. When Mr W was then 
transferred to the fraud department, TSB asked him to verify himself again and provide 
further information to enable the account to be unblocked.  
Mr W was unhappy with the service TSB provided and complained. TSB accepted that Mr W 
had waited longer than he should have to reach the fraud team and paid him £25 to reflect 
the inconvenience this caused him. TSB also paid Mr W £12 to cover the cost of the 
telephone call he made. TSB didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint that the agent who dealt with 
the telephone call was condescending. 
Mr W brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that TSB didnt act unreasonably 
when it carried out a fraud check and that it had recognised the inconvenience and cost to 
Mr W of having to call to verify the payment and unblock the account. The Investigator 
thought that in the telephone call, the agent followed a reasonable process to verify Mr W 
and allow the payment to be made and the account unblocked. Mr W didnt agree with the 
Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed, but Ive decided that TSB doesnt need to do 
anything else. I will now explain why.
Mr W was frustrated that a payment, similar to payments hed made a number of times in the 
past, resulted in his account being blocked for a short period of time. TSB is obliged by its 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to make sure their customers accounts arent 
used fraudulently. So, if the systems TSB use identified unusual activity, they have to 
investigate, and TSB may block access while it investigates. We wouldnt expect TSB to say 
how it carries out its checks and we cant tell TSB how it should carry out checks, or that it 
must tell a customer why the payment was referred to the fraud team. I appreciate Mr W 
feels that the system in place made it feel like he was at the beck and call of TSB, but Im 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for TSB to contact Mr W for verification of the payment 
once it had identified a potentially fraudulent transaction on his account.
In this case, there is no dispute TSB blocked Mr Ws account and asked him to call to verify 
the payment so the account could be unblocked. I appreciate that TSB told Mr W to call to 
resolve the matter and that this will have been an inconvenience, but I cant say that this was 
an excessive level inconvenience when using a current account now. Although it seems that 
the initial automated verification system transferred Mr Ws call to the wrong department, he 
was able to speak with a member of the fraud team within about 15-20 minutes, and the 
matter was resolved relatively quickly. So, Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, TSBs apology and payment of £37.00 to Mr W because he spent longer on the 
telephone than he should have to unblock his account was fair and reasonable.
Ive listened to Mr Ws telephone call with the fraud team. Its clear that Mr W was frustrated 
with having to spend time resolving the matter, but in my opinion the agent wasnt 
condescending. The agent reasonably explained the process he would follow to help resolve 
the failed payment and told Mr W that when the verification had been completed, the 
account could be unblocked. There were a number of times during the telephone call when 
Mr W said he required to step away from the call. I can understand Mr W became upset 
when the agent told him he may end the call if Mr W didnt stay on the call. But I dont think it 
was unreasonable for the agent to point this out to Mr W, particularly as this was a 
verification call and the agent needed to be sure he was speaking to Mr W throughout the 
call. Regardless of this, the call progressed to the point where the account was unblocked, 
Mr W made the payment on-line and the agent confirmed it had been completed. Therefore, 
Ive decided in this regard, TSB doesnt need to do anything else.
My final decision
Ive decided that the payment of £37.00 TSB Bank plc has already paid to Mr W is fair and 
reasonable and I wont be asking TSB Bank plc to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman