DRN-3632538
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Cornish Mutual Assurance Company 
Limited unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claims after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
M, a law firm, has brought the complaint on Ws behalf.
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with Cornish Mutual. It operates a shop, 
restaurant and childrens play area.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 W closed 
its premises in March 2020 and also in the two later lockdowns. 
W claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses in the three lockdowns. Cornish 
Mutual declined the claims. It said W wasnt covered for its losses as the definition of 
Human Disease in the policy didnt include Covid-19. 
M disagreed. It said the policy covered Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) which it 
said was a generic name for a range of diseases associated with coronavirus and that 
included Covid-19.
M referred Ws complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt recommend 
it be upheld. She didnt think the list of diseases in the policy included Covid-19 and even if it 
were held to include Covid-19, there was no evidence of a case of Covid-19 at Ws 
premises. 
W asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ws business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Cornish Mutual has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Ws claim.
The most relevant part of Ws policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses arising 
from:
interruption or interference with the Business as a result of any Human Disease which 
occurs at the Premises  Provided that the use of the Premises is restricted on the 
order or advice of a competent authority. 
The policy provides the following definition for the term Human Disease: 
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Infectious Hepatitis, Acute Meningitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, 
Anthrax, Botulism, Brucellosis, Cholera, Diphtheria, Enteric Fever (Typhoid or Paratyphoid 
Fever), Haemolytic Uraemic Syndrome, Infectious Bloody Diarrhoea, Invasive Group A 
Streptococcal Disease, Legionnaires Disease, Leprosy, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal 
Septicaemia, Mumps, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome 
(SARS), Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhus, Viral Haemorrhagic Fever 
(VHF),Whooping Cough and Yellow Fever.
The definition doesnt include Covid-19. Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the 
policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar 
policies on the market that provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies 
which cover all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. 
Ws policy is not like this  rather it sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. 
And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any 
new illnesses which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering 
any new diseases just because they are notifiable diseases.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say 
that these two diseases are the same.
M has pointed out that a number of the conditions listed in the definition of Human 
Disease extend to a range of diseases. For example, Plague is a generic name for a 
variety of illnesses which may be viral or bacterial. M argues that SARS should be 
interpreted to include all SARS-related illnesses such as Covid-19.
The approach to contractual interpretation is set out in the Supreme Courts judgment in 
response to the FCA Business Interruption Test Case. Paragraph 47 of that judgment says 
an insurance policy, like any other contract, must be interpreted objectively by asking what 
a reasonable person, with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been 
available to the parties when they entered into the contract, would have understood the 
language of the contract to mean. Evidence about what the parties subjectively intended or 
understood the contract to mean is not relevant to the courts task. 
At paragraph 77 the Supreme Court also commented that the overriding question is how 
the words of the contract would be understood by a reasonable person. In the case of an 
insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally to SMEs, the person to whom the 
document should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who will subject the 
entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis (cf Jumbo King Ltd v Faithful Properties 
Ltd (1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an ordinary policyholder who, on entering into the 
contract, is taken to have read through the policy conscientiously in order to understand 
what cover they were getting. 
It was noted in Corbin & King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK PLC [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) 
(quoting from an arbitration award issued by Lord Mance in The Policyholders Specified in Schedule 1 to the Arbitration Agreement v China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd) that this 
does not mention the insurer or any broker. Cockerill J therefore said that  on this basis, 
we approach the Policy on its words, as if we are a small businessman, albeit with a broker 
to assist us. (paragraph 180). 
It seems to me that the contract should not be interpreted with hindsight. Rather the 
question is how the words would have been understood by the reasonable small business 
owner, perhaps assisted by a broker, with all the background knowledge which would have 
been reasonably available at the time the parties entered into the contract. The insurance 
was entered into before Covid-19 had been identified. So, the question for me is what a 
reasonable person would have understood SARS to mean at that point. 
Ive considered what this approach, in my opinion, means with regard to the reference to 
SARS. SARS is a viral respiratory illness caused by the SARS-associated coronavirus, 
SARSCoV. Both SARS and Covid-19 are caused by coronaviruses. I think the reference to 
SARS in the policy is likely to be interpreted as referring to the SARS disease which broke 
out in China and Hong Kong (and other locations) in 2002-2003. This is consistent with 
general knowledge of SARS and the UKs notifiable diseases list, which lists SARS 
separately from Covid-19. It is a specific disease and I do not consider it is reasonable to 
interpreted SARS as including other illnesses also caused by coronaviruses such as 
Covid-19.
My decision is based upon the wording of the policy in force at the time the first loss arose. 
Although Cornish Mutual might have decided on renewal to exclude SARS from the list of 
diseases included in the definition of Human Disease, it doesnt follow that Covid-19 was 
covered under the earlier wording. For the reasons explained above, I dont think it was 
covered.
Since I have found that losses caused by an occurrence of Covid-19 are not covered by Ws 
policy, I dont need to consider whether there was actually an occurrence of Covid-19 on 
Ws premises.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome W was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Cornish Mutual to pay Ws claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman