DRN-2209841
The complaint
Mr D has complained that MBNA Ltd wont refund transactions on his credit card which he 
says he didnt make.
What happened
At the start of January 2020, Mr Ds account with MBNA was blocked because he hadnt 
paid off the balance. He cleared the debt on 6 January 2020. MBNA had wanted to close the 
account, but he persuaded it to leave the account open. The credit limit on the account was 
£4,200.
Between 24 and 31 January 2020, Mr Ds credit card was used for 13 cash withdrawals. The 
transactions took the account up to the credit limit. There were also multiple attempts to 
withdraw cash which were declined because the credit limit had been reached. 
He reported the transactions to MBNA on 31January 2020, after logging on to his mobile 
banking app. 
He said the last genuine transaction was a payment in a supermarket. He didnt know how 
anyone else couldve taken his card or found out the PIN. He kept his card in a wallet on a 
table in his bedroom. If he wanted to use a card, then he would take out the card rather than 
the wallet. He said he hadnt changed the PIN, but he had kept the PIN letter in a pile of 
papers in a cupboard in his bedroom. 
Mr D said he lived at home with his family. His father owned the house and had put it up for 
sale. Prospective buyers were viewing the property, but he said it was unlikely that a 
prospective buyer wouldve been left alone long enough to find his card and PIN. 
He said no-one outside his family had access to his card and PIN and he didnt suspect 
anyone. He said he couldnt check his account earlier, because hed left his mobile phone 
with a repair shop.
He asked MNBA for a refund. 
MBNA decided he had authorised the cash withdrawals and refused to refund him. It said: -
his card and PIN had been used for the cash withdrawals
he couldnt explain how a third party couldve got hold of his card and PIN
he had previously used his card for cash withdrawals
the cash withdrawals were made in his local area.
As Mr D didnt agree with MBNAs decision, he asked this service to investigate.
An investigator looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, he felt unable to 
conclude that the cash withdrawals were made fraudulently and was persuaded they were 
most likely authorised by Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators view and he responded with new information. He 
said that the first disputed cash withdrawal was, in fact, made by his wife. He said she lost 
the card after using it to withdraw cash. She said she had the card in her coat or cardigan 
pocket. She didnt notice anything unusual or suspicious at the ATM. She didnt lose 
anything else, only the MBNA card.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote two views. The first view sets out, in full, the facts, the transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr D and MBNA have read the investigators 
views, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr D that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Generally, MBNA can hold Mr D liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were used to make the disputed cash withdrawals. 
They couldnt have happened without his card and PIN. But the regulations relevant to this 
case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable MBNA to hold him liable. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr D consented to the withdrawals being made. This includes consenting to someone 
else using his card.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for MBNA to conclude that Mr D 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
the disputed cash withdrawals were made with Mr Ds actual card and PIN.
Mr D changed his evidence to say that his wife had made the first disputed cash 
withdrawal and subsequently lost the card.
There is no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party got hold of the card 
and PIN.
Even if Mrs D lost the card after using it, theres no evidence for how a third party 
knew the PIN.
The PIN was entered correctly the first time  proof the person already knew the PIN.
There were no balance inquiries, which suggests that the person using the card knew 
there was an available credit to use.
There were two log ins to his mobile banking app on 20 and 22 January 2020 when 
he said his phone was in for repairs.
Whoever made the log ins must have known Mr Ds log in details, if it wasnt him. He 
hasnt mentioned sharing those details with anyone else.When confronted with this evidence, Mr D changed his version of events. He said 
that when he took his phone to be repaired, he removed the SIM for safekeeping. He 
said his wife took it and used it to log on to his MBNA account from her phone. She 
then replaced the SIM. He said his phone uses a face scanner for the bio-metrics 
and hers has a fingerprint scanner. 
However, the receipt from the repair shop, which he provided, is dated 19 January 
2020. It records he paid £150 in cash, so I assume this was the date he collected the 
phone.
Also, and crucially, MBNAs technical reports showed at the time of the disputed cash 
withdrawals, only one device (an iPhone) had been registered to the app. This was 
Mr Ds phone. The log ins were made with his fingerprint. A second device was 
registered later, after the disputed cash withdrawals were made.
MBNA also confirmed that mobile apps are stored by the device not the SIM card. It 
said that even if Mrs D put his SIM card into her phone, she would need to register 
her phone to the app. And her phone would leave a footprint on his online banking 
log. There was no such footprint.
The disputed transactions started the day after Mrs D said she lost the card. It wasnt 
used immediately. Also, the disputed transactions were made every day over a 7-day 
period which suggests and ease and confidence with using the card. In our 
experience, this is not the usual pattern for a fraudster. 
All in all, I dont find Mr Ds testimony to be persuasive or plausible. He has changed his 
description of events several times but each version conflicts with the technical and other 
evidence. 
For all the reasons I have given, I think its more likely Mr D made the disputed cash 
withdrawals himself or his wife made them with his consent.
I think its fair and reasonable therefore for MBNA to refuse a refund of the disputed cash 
withdrawals on the basis they were authorised by Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman