DRN-2455630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly 
declined their claim for their conservatory roof, under their guarantee insurance.
Ill refer to Red Sands and any parties acting on its behalf as Red Sands.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Os conservatory roof was installed in 2014. The installer provided a ten-year 
guarantee which, among other things, stated:
-Our product is guaranteed for 10 years from the date of purchase in respect of 
materials and workmanship (surface appearance of the coloured finish).
The installers guarantee is backed by an insurance policy thats underwritten by Red Sands. 
The cover becomes effective in the event the installer ceases trading.
In 2015, the installer ceased trading. In 2020, Mr and Mrs O identified their conservatory roof 
had discolouration marks. They were unable to claim under the installers guarantee due to it 
no longer trading, so they made a claim under the insurance policy.
Red Sands declined the claim due to an exclusion in the policy terms that states it wont be 
liable for damage or defects caused by discolouration. Due to the wording on the installers 
guarantee, Mr and Mrs O didnt think Red Sands claim decision was fair. They thought the 
insurance would provide the same cover as the installers guarantee. They also said they 
hadnt received their policy documents, and if they had, they would have sought more 
comprehensive cover.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Os complaint, but he didnt think the claim 
had been unfairly declined. Because Mr and Mrs O disagreed, the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs O are unhappy given the installers written guarantee suggests 
the discolouration marks may have been covered by the installer, if still trading. Having said 
that, Im not persuaded the installers guarantee was intending to cover such issues unless 
caused by faulty materials or poor workmanship.
I havent seen anything that explains whats caused the discolouration marks; but in any 
event, in view of the exclusion in the policy terms, Im not persuaded Red Sands unfairly 
declined the claim. Even if the discoloration marks were due to faulty materials or poor 
workmanship, discoloration damage and defects are excluded.
Mr and Mrs Os insurance certificate explains Red Sands will cover defective workmanship 
and faulty materials in-line with the installers guarantee, but the certificate and policy terms 
should be read as one document as they set out the terms of the contract. The certificate 
also explains Mr and Mrs O should read these documents to make sure the insurance 
provides the cover they want. In my view, this information is clearly set out. So, Im not 
persuaded Red Sands reliance on the policy exclusion was unfair.
Mr and Mrs O say they didnt receive the policy documents after the installation. However, 
Red Sands has provided a correctly addressed letter, and a screenshot of their internal 
system which shows the policy documents were sent to Mr and Mrs O soon after the 
installation. So, I cant reasonably decide Red Sands did something wrong here. The 
installers guarantee also notified Mr and Mrs O they were due to receive insurance 
documents within eight weeks, so Im mindful they could have followed this up if the 
documents werent received. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs O feel they were misled about the guarantee insurance. However, 
whilst the cost of the policy may have been passed on to them by the installer through its 
charges, they werent sold the policy in the conventional sense. But rather, the cover was 
taken out by the installer and simply provided to Mr and Mrs O. I cant reasonably decide 
Red Sands is responsible for how the installer positioned the insurance to them.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman