DRN-3931384
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of repairs to his car after Ageas Insurance Limited repaired 
it following a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs vehicle was damaged in an accident. Ageas reviewed the claim, accepted it, and 
repaired Mr Bs vehicle. A little while later Mr B noticed the paint on the sliding door was 
cracked and starting to peel. He therefore took it back to the garage Ageas used to do the 
repairs. Mr B said the garage told him theyd recommended replacing the door at the time 
but Ageas and said it needed repairing instead. Mr B then complained to Ageas about the 
poor repair.  
Ageas reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the damage to the door was to the 
lower part and the cracked paint was around the door handle, which hadnt been repaired. 
Ageas said it must have cracked due to a previous poor repair. Unhappy with Ageas 
response, Mr B brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
while the damage had been to the lower part of the door, Ageas had stripped the door back 
and repainted the whole door. Because of this, she thought Ageas should fix the poor repairs 
to the door as they hadnt been done to the required standard as the paint was now 
cracking. 
Ageas disagreed. It said the door had been filled previously around the handle, where the 
cracking was. It also said it looked like someone had put a screwdriver in there, possibly 
attempting to break into the car. And because of this it didnt think it was responsible for the 
paint now cracking and coming away. 
As Ageas disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say: 
All repairs carried out by repairers we approve are backed by a three-year warranty.
I also think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to have a responsibility to carry out a lasting 
and effective repair. Ive therefore looked at whether Ageas has met its requirements under 
the policy when repairing Mr Bs car. 
The original assessment of the repair states the incident date as 26 February 2020. I can 
see Ageas final response letter is dated 7 September 2022. As Mr B has raised the issue 
with the paint within three years or the repair, Im satisfied it falls within the three-year 
warranty period of the policy. Ive therefore looked at whether it would be fair and reasonable 
for Ageas to cover the issue with the paint cracking. 
Ageas has said it didnt repair the area of the door where the paint has cracked, its also said 
there was previous filling around that area. Ive reviewed the photos of the door from when it 
was being repaired and of the damage before it was repaired. The photos show the damage 
to the lower part of the door, however when the door has been repaired the whole door has 
been stripped back and painted. 
While there may have been filler around the area which has now cracked, the paint on that 
area wasnt cracking before Ageas repaired the door. And as Ageas repainted the whole 
door Im satisfied, in line with the policy terms, that Ageas is responsible for those repairs.
Ive also considered Ageass comments about someone possibly attempting to break into the 
car with a screwdriver. Mr B disputes this and says its just where the paint is cracking and 
coming away. Ive reviewed the pictures and Im inclined to Agree with Mr B, I say this 
because there are no scratching or other marks around the area which you would expect to 
see if someone tried to force entry. Im therefore more persuaded by Mr Bs comments that 
its where the paint is cracking and coming away.  
When taking this all into account Im satisfied that Ageas is responsible for fixing the paint 
cracking and therefore needs to repair the door to fix the paint cracking which has occurred.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited 
to fix the paint cracking on Mr Bs door. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman