DRN-3910653
The complaint
Mr H complains about the amount of time it took to contact TSB Bank plc (TSB) Fraud 
Department. He would like more compensation than the £50 TSB has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate it must have been worrying for Mr H to receive text alerts from TSB 
about fraudulent transactions, and then frustrating that it took so long to contact TSB 
about this. Mr H has told us he was on hold on the telephone for six hours. TSBs 
records dont confirm how long Mr H had to wait and Mr H cant evidence this either. 
However, TSB has accepted the wait time was excessive and offered Mr H £50 
compensation. I think some compensation is appropriate.
Mr H has also told us that  he didnt receive a call back from TSB  when a call 
dropped. TSB has evidenced that it did try to call Mr H back  so I dont think TSB is at 
fault here.
Mr H has told us  he received a higher amount of compensation  from a different 
bank. I cant take that into account as that compensation was with a different 
business for a different issue. In this complaint I can only look at TSBs actions. 
Equally I cant consider comparisons Mr H has made to the national wage  we dont 
base compensation awards on earnings.
I cant be sure exactly how long Mr H had to wait to contact TSB. Also, there would 
have been other means to contact the bank possibly open to Mr H such as an online 
message or a branch visit. Having carefully considered all the information I have 
been given I think that TSBs offer of £50 compensation  is appropriate for the time it 
took Mr H to contact TSB.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement ,if it has not done so already ,TSB Bank plc should pay Mr H £50 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of the time it took for him to contact the 
bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman