DRN-3408591
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how British Gas Service Limited dealt with a claim she made under 
her HomeCare policy for a repair to her boiler.
What happened
Mrs G holds a HomeCare policy with British Gas Services Limited (British Gas), which she 
renews each year. 
On 11 July 2021, an issue with Mrs Gs boiler at her home address caused her to be without 
hot water and heating. She contacted British Gas online the same day to arrange a visit from 
an engineer to remedy the problem. 
British Gas stated that, when Mrs G made contact on 11 July 2021, she didnt make it aware 
there were any vulnerable individuals living within her property. So, the earliest appointment 
Mrs G was able to arrange via the online appointment booking system was for 14 July 2021.
British Gas said that an engineer attended Mrs Gs property on 14 July 2021 and identified 
that the boiler tank was leaking and needed to be replaced. They informed Mrs G that this 
task would require two engineers and a subsequent appointment was arranged for the 
following day.
On 15 July 2021, the appointment at Mrs Gs property didnt go ahead as scheduled. Mrs G 
contacted British Gas to raise concerns about this and explained that there was a vulnerable 
individual with significant health issues living within her property. So, an emergency 
appointment for 16 July 2020 was arranged.
On 16 July 2020, an engineer attended Mrs Gs home address to complete a repair to make 
the defective tank safe and prevent it from leaking. Mrs G said that during this appointment 
she wasnt provided with clear information about the next steps required to repair her boiler.
A replacement boiler tank was ordered by British Gas following the engineers visit on 16 
July. However, this didnt happen until 19 July 2021 because this was the next working day 
following the engineers visit to Mrs Gs property. 
The replacement part was a special order non standard item because of the age of Mrs Gs 
boiler. So, it wasnt delivered until 10 August 2021. British Gas said that an engineer 
attended Mrs Gs home address on both 11 and 12 August 2021 to install the new part and 
repair the boiler  thus restoring heating and hot water to the property.
Mrs G wasnt happy with the way in which British Gas had dealt with her claim under her 
HomeCare policy and complained. She felt it hadnt acted as promptly as it could have in 
ordering the replacement tank, which had caused a delay in her receiving the part that was 
required to repair her boiler. Mrs G said this all left her without hot water and heating for 33 
days, which was extremely inconvenient and caused her to have to travel to a relatives 
house to bathe during this time. 
Within her complaint, Mrs G also raised concerns that there was a lack of communication by 
British Gas  she stated that shed had to regularly chase for updates about the status of her 
claim because she wasnt kept informed about its progress. 
When British Gas responded to Mrs Gs complaint it explained that it had attempted, but 
hadnt been able, to source an equivalent tank elsewhere in order to reduce the wait time.  
However, it acknowledged that Mrs G hadnt received updates about the status of her repair, 
which meant that she had to chase for information on numerous occasions.
British Gas apologised for the shortfalls in service that Mrs G had received and offered to 
compensate her as a gesture of goodwill, initially, in the sum of £120. It subsequently 
increased that sum to £250. But Mrs G refused these offers and referred her complaint to 
our service instead.
Our investigator looked into what happened and recognised that there had been elements of 
poor service on the part of British Gas. But they didnt recommend upholding this complaint 
because they thought British Gas had acted fairly in compensating Mrs G for the trouble and 
upset shed been caused. So, they didnt think it needed to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. However, Mrs G disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mrs G has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed submissions. I want to assure her that 
Ive read everything shes sent us. I hope shell understand if I dont address every comment 
shes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the 
complaint.
Mrs G has referred our service to social media and other examples, which she states 
indicates how British Gas treats vulnerable customers when they are without heating and hot 
water. But this service considers complaints on an individual basis. So, its not our role to 
comment on the wider issues Mrs G has raised. Ill therefore focus this decision on how 
matters affected Mrs G as the complainant in this case. 
Its clear that Mrs G feels very strongly that her complaint should be upheld. As a 
longstanding HomeCare customer, I recognise that she feels let down by the service she 
received. But, while I have sympathy with Mrs G, our service is impartial. We dont take 
either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, and we dont regulate or punish 
businesses. 
My role here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake or treated Mrs G 
unfairly. If the evidence suggests that it did, I have to determine whether British Gas has 
offered adequate compensation that reflects the distress and inconvenience that was caused 
by what happened. 
British Gas has provided our service with reliable, cogent evidence that satisfies me that the 
manufacturer of Mrs Gs boiler ceased production of the boiler a considerable time ago. 
While the boiler manufacturer is still producing some parts, others are not as common 
making them more difficult to source. This explains why British Gas encountered difficulties 
in sourcing the defective part that required replacement.I can see that the issues regarding the availability of parts for the boiler are referred to in 
clear, unambiguous language on policy renewal documentation British Gas sent Mrs G each 
year since 2018. So, Im satisfied British Gas made Mrs G aware of the potential difficulties 
she may have experienced with a boiler repair prior to her renewing her policy.
Ive also seen evidence, namely engineer visit reports, demonstrating that Mrs G was 
informed that the manufacturer of her boiler had ceased production of it and that parts were 
becoming increasingly difficult to source. I can see that there were occasions where Mrs G 
was advised to replace her boiler during service appointments due to its age and condition. 
Mrs G decided not to replace her boiler notwithstanding the advice she received from British 
Gas  as she was entitled to do. And, under the terms of her HomeCare policy, the cost of a 
replacement boiler would not be covered by British Gas due to its age. British Gas obligation 
under the HomeCare policy was to repair the boiler if possible. And this means that I cant 
fairly find that Mrs G ought to have been offered a new boiler funded by British Gas when 
her boiler broke down. 
I can see that Mrs G has raised concerns about delay, particularly given the length of time 
she was without hot water and heating pending the repair of her boiler. However, based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I think Mrs G ought to have been aware that parts of her boiler may 
have become difficult to source and replace and that this could cause delays in any repair 
that may have been needed.
Mrs G is unhappy that the first appointment that she was able to arrange was for 14 July  
three days following her report of the problem she was experiencing. British Gas has 
informed our service that Mrs G didnt make it aware that a vulnerable individual was 
resident at her property, and she hasnt disputed this. 
British Gas has stated that the online appointment booking system doesnt allow a customer 
to notify it of any vulnerabilities. This information would have been helpful as it would have 
prompted British Gas to prioritise Mrs Gs appointment, which most likely would have led to 
an earlier appointment being offered. But I dont have the power to tell British Gas to change 
its online appointment booking system to enable a customer to input information regarding 
vulnerabilities. And Mrs G could have telephoned British Gas to request an expedited 
appointment had she wanted to.
While I think its likely that an earlier visit would have been offered to Mrs G had British Gas 
been aware of vulnerability information, I cant reasonably find that an earlier visit didnt take 
place due to an error by British Gas for the reasons outlined above.
Mrs G has also argued that the replacement part ought to have been ordered during the 
engineer appointment on 14 July. The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that this visit went 
ahead as scheduled. However, two engineers were required and only one had attended. Im 
not persuaded that British Gas ought to have known that two engineers were required prior 
to 14 July because I think this would only become apparent during the initial visit itself. 
I can see that once British Gas attended to inspect the boiler, the engineer correctly 
identified that two engineers were required to replace the water tank, which was faulty. I 
havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a temporary repair could have been 
effected by the engineer during their visit on 14 July or during any visit prior to the 
replacement part being delivered and installed. This means that British Gas couldnt have 
restored hot water or heating to Mrs Gs property until the boiler was repaired.
The engineer that attended Mrs Gs property on 14 July arranged the next appointment for the following day, which demonstrates that British Gas was prioritising this repair. This was 
due to British Gas becoming aware that a vulnerable individual was living within the property. 
It is not disputed that the engineer attending Mrs Gs home address on 14 July didnt order 
the replacement tank. Im satisfied that they could have taken this action during this 
appointment. It follows that Im persuaded there was a missed opportunity by British Gas to 
order the replacement tank.
The evidence discloses that there was a further missed opportunity to order the replacement 
tank on 15 July because this appointment didnt take place. I understand that this 
appointment wasnt met due to a system error. However, had this appointment proceeded as 
scheduled, I think its most likely that the boiler part would have been ordered by 16 July at 
the latest  three days prior to the date British Gas placed the order.
Ive seen evidence that persuades me that the replacement part was ordered on 19 July 
2021 by British Gas. I understand that Mrs G feels this part ought to have been ordered on 
16 July, immediately following the engineers visit to her property that day. However, I can 
see that it was after business hours by the time this visit concluded. And this meant the 
replacement part couldnt be ordered by British Gas until the next business day, which was 
19 July 2021. 
While it took 22 days for the delivery of the replacement part from the date it was ordered, 
Im persuaded that this was beyond British Gas control. This delay was due to the fact that 
the part that was required was difficult to source and it was a supplier issue, which is not 
something I can fairly hold British Gas responsible for. As Ive already mentioned, I think that 
Mrs G ought to have been aware of difficulties in sourcing and replacing parts given the age 
of her boiler. However, while shed received advice previously about this, British Gas could 
have provided clearer information about the expected delivery time for the replacement part.
Ive seen evidence which demonstrates that reasonable efforts were made to attempt to 
source the replacement part elsewhere in efforts to reduce the wait time. I think this 
demonstrates that British Gas were trying to minimise the distress and inconvenience Mrs G 
was experiencing. And, in doing so, I think British Gas recognised the impact this was 
causing and that a vulnerable individual was living at Mrs Gs property.
Im satisfied that British Gas allocated an engineer to attend Mrs Gs property as soon as the 
replacement part was received. I say this because an engineer visited Mrs G on 11 and 12 
August to effect a repair and restore hot water and heating to her property.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs G was without hot water and heating for around 33 days. During 
that time Mrs G told our service that she had to travel to a relatives house to bathe. It could 
have been made clearer to Mrs G that there would be a delay in the replacement part being 
received and the reason why this was the case. Ive seen evidence that demonstrates that 
Mrs G chased British Gas extensively and had to request updates via social media channels. 
This shouldnt have been necessary and is bound to have exacerbated the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs G would have experienced. Mrs G should have been kept up to date 
about the status of her repair and this was poor service.
To recognise the distress and inconvenience that Mrs G was caused, British Gas offered to 
compensate her in the sum of £250. Mrs G has told our investigator that she expects 
compensation to exceed £1000 and has referred them to examples of how other service 
providers have compensated customers where services have been disrupted or delayed. 
How these service providers have approached the issue of compensation is not something I 
can comment on as part of this complaint as I am considering the actions of British Gas 
rather than the organisations Mrs G has commented on.It may assist Mrs G if I explain that when our service considers awards for non-financial loss 
there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to 
consider what impact the business actions have had on the consumer and to decide, within 
guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mrs Gs experience here went beyond mere irritation. So, Im satisfied 
that an award of compensation is appropriate. Ive already outlined the likely impact on Mrs 
G and Ive taken on board her comments about what happened. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that the compensation British Gas has already offered is a fair amount of 
compensation thats proportionate to the trouble and upset that Mrs G wouldve been caused 
here. This sum appropriately takes into consideration the length of time Mrs G was without 
hot water and heating, the fact that she had to travel elsewhere to bathe. This amount also 
reflects the fact that appointments were rescheduled, which added avoidable delay and it 
recognises that Mrs G experienced poor communication regarding the status of the repair.
As the compensation offered is in line with our approach in similar scenarios and, given that I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher distress and inconvenience award is 
warranted here, Im not going to tell British Gas to increase its goodwill offer. Its unclear 
whether British Gas has paid Mrs G the amount it offered. If it hasnt already done so, British 
Gas should make payment of the £250 it offered to resolve this complaint to Mrs G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman