DRN-3780135
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C complain about National Westminster Bank Plcs actions when closing their 
account.
What happened
Mr C and Mr C held a joint account with NatWest. In August 2021, NatWest sent a text to 
confirm that the account could no longer be used, and NatWest were ending the banking 
facilities. NatWest also sent a 14-day closure letter to the address held on file. However, 
Mr C and Mr Cs account remain blocked  and therefore they werent able to use it or 
access the money in it.
While NatWest didnt give Mr C and Mr C a reason for the closure, Mr C assumed it was due 
to a payment he had made to his son to assist with his daughter-in-laws medical treatment 
in another country; or a previous disputed transaction.
Following the account closure notice, Mr C continued to receive marketing promotions and 
literature, despite not being able to use the account. He says he found this distressing and 
had to borrow money to be able to continue to live. 
NatWest confirmed they received the funds release form from Mr C on 11 August 2021. 
NatWest have a process which states funds can take up to 60 days to be released. The 
account was closed on 17 September 2021 and Mr C received the money from his account 
around 22 September 2021.
Our investigator reviewed things and thought overall NatWest were entitled to do what they 
did. However she didnt think they gave Mr C and Mr C the full 14 days notice due to the 
account being blocked, and recognised they caused some delays when releasing the 
money. Overall, our investigator recommended that NatWest should pay Mr C £200 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience the overall situation caused; and 
thought they should pay 8% simple interest on the funds held due to delays between 
7 September 2021 and 22 September 2021. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to review things. He explained he had to 
borrow money and felt NatWest had made an unfair decision to close the account. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
In September 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Firstly, I hope Mr C and Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the 
complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach the right outcome.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information NatWest has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail 
with Mr C and Mr C, but Id like to reassure them that I have considered everything.  
The review and block of the account
NatWest are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially  while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats 
happened, Im satisfied NatWest was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when they reviewed Mr C and Mr Cs account. So, I cant fairly say they did anything wrong 
in this regard.
When NatWest finalised their review, and informed Mr C and Mr C that the account would be 
closed, I would have expected the block to have been removed from the account. As it 
remained blocked, Mr C and Mr C couldnt use their account, nor access the money in it, 
which left them in a challenging situation. I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that 
NatWest should have kept the account blocked after theyd made the decision to close it. 
And therefore, I think the block was unfairly applied after 4 August 2021.
The closure of the account 
At times, following a review, banks can sometimes choose to end their relationship with 
customers. This can be due to a number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason 
to the customer. Just the same as if Mr C and Mr C decided to stop banking with NatWest, 
they wouldnt have to explain why. 
However, NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms 
and conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms when closing the account  
however I cant reasonably agree they have applied them fairly.
NatWest shared details with our service on why the account was being closed  while I cant 
share this level of detail with Mr C and Mr C  I would like to reassure them, that the reason 
NatWest have given seems reasonable based on the circumstances of the complaint. That 
being said, based on what NatWest has provided, I dont agree a 14-day closure (or in fact, 
an immediate closure due to the block) is fair. I consider a notice period of 60 days would 
have been more appropriate; with the two months or so full access being give to allow Mr C 
and Mr C to manage their finances and arrange alternative banking arrangements.
Marketing material
Ive no doubt Mr C continuing to receive emails advising him that his online statements were 
ready to view and then finding he couldnt access them would have been frustrating. As well 
as receiving further promotional offers. It appears NatWest made the decision to close the 
account in early August 2021, so I consider they should have stopped all other marketing 
and correspondence unless specifically relating to the review, block or closure itself.
Release of funds
NatWests policy states that funds can take up to 60 days to be released. I note NatWest 
received the funds release form around 11 August 2021 and Mr C received the money back around 22 September 2021. Therefore, this is within the 60-day timeframe. However, Ive 
concluded above, that based on the evidence Ive received so far, I think the account 
remained blocked unfairly. And therefore, if the account block had been lifted, Mr C wouldnt 
have had to wait for access to his funds. Therefore, I dont agree the funds taking this time 
was reasonable, as I consider Mr C should have had access to them around the same time 
the decision was made to close the account  which was around 4 August 2021.
Therefore, I consider NatWest should recognise the loss of use of the funds and pay 8% 
simple interest from the day they made the decision to close the account  up to the date 
they released them.
The impact
Ive no doubt this overall situation had a severe impact on Mr C and Mr C. Im particularly 
sorry to hear of the difficulties related to health. Im also aware Mr C was able to mitigate 
some of his losses by borrowing money from his employer. I havent seen any direct 
financial loss from Mr C so I cant fairly ask NatWest to pay this. However, I do consider the 
distress and inconvenience caused needs to be recognised.
Having considered everything carefully, I believe a payment of £500 fairly recognises this 
inconvenience. I appreciate this is considerably less than Mr C has asked for; but its not in 
my remit to punish businesses and therefore I have to recommend a reasonable figure 
based on what has happened and I dont think I can fairly ask NatWest to pay anything 
more.
So, in summary, I thought NatWest were entitled to review and block Mr C and Mr Cs 
account. However, I didnt think the extension of the block up until the closure date was fair 
and I think a notice period of at least 60 days would have been more appropriate in the 
circumstances. I also considered all marketing material should have been stopped.
I suggested NatWest to put things right by:
Paying 8% simple interest on the amount which was withheld from Mr C and Mr C 
from the date they made the decision to close the account, up to the date they 
refunded it.
Paying Mr C and Mr C a total of £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
NatWest responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. They confirmed that they 
would need new account details to pay the redress as the NatWest account is no longer 
open.
Mr C responded and was happy to accept the decision but also wanted NatWest to send full 
statements for all of the accounts to allow him to see all of the transactions on the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Cs additional request for a copy of the full statements of his accounts. I 
think this is a reasonable request and therefore agree that NatWest should provide these to 
Mr C. It is important Mr C understands the transactions which have taken place on his 
account, and I see no reason why NatWest cant share this level of detail with Mr C.As neither party made any further arguments to my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
depart from them.
Putting things right
I consider £500 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. And I 
think NatWest paying 8% simple interest on the money which was held recognises the loss 
of use of the funds.
Im satisfied Mr C and Mr C are entitled to see full statements of the accounts and therefore 
consider this request to be reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, National Westminster 
Bank Plc should:
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount which was withheld from Mr C and Mr C. They 
should calculate this from the date they made the decision to close the account, up to 
the date they refunded it.
Pay Mr C and Mr C a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Provide Mr C and Mr C with full statements of the accounts held.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman