DRN-3144158
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card with NewDay in February 2017 and received a £600 credit 
limit. The limit was then increased in August 2018 to £1,200. 
Mr C says at the time he was provided with the credit he had a county court judgment on his 
credit file. He says he then had to take out several other credit cards to maintain his 
repayments, including another credit card with NewDay Ltd which he took out in August 
2020.
Mr C raised his complaint with NewDay asking that his interest rate be lowered, or his debts 
cut but it didnt uphold his complaint. He says it then closed both his cards without telling him 
and just kept the accounts open for him to repay the debt along with interest. Mr C says he 
has had to borrow more money to repay his debt.
NewDay issued a final response letter dated 24 March 2021. It said it was a second chance 
lender and its accounts were designed to help customers with lower credit ratings. It said 
that before it provided the credit cards it carried out affordability and creditworthiness 
checks. And before the credit limit was increased on Mr Cs first credit card it assessed how 
Mr C had been managing his account as well as checking other credit data. It said based on 
the results of its checks it was satisfied it had lent responsibly. 
Mr C didnt agree with NewDays response and he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that NewDay had carried out adequate checks before providing the 
credit to Mr C and that based on its checks the lending appeared affordable. She noted 
Mr Cs comment about the high rate of interest but said the interest rate was clearly set out. 
She also noted that when Mr C asked for a payment freeze in May 2020 he didnt inform 
NewDay of any financial difficulties. She said that while interest can be frozen this wasnt a 
requirement on NewDay and it had applied the interest and charges in line with the terms 
and conditions. Based on this, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit we would expect a business to carry out proportionate checks to 
ensure that lending to the customer was responsible. There isnt a defined set of checks that 
are required but we would expect a business to carry out reasonable affordability and credit 
worthiness check to assess whether a consumer can afford the repayments of the credit.
Mr C applied for a credit card in February 2017. His application recorded him as employed 
with a gross annual salary of £19,000 and other household income of £7,000. I havent seen 
any verification of Mr Cs salary but based on the bank statements he has provided from the 
time, these support the annual salary figure provided. Mr C had £400 of unsecured debt 
recorded and while I note his comments about having country court judgment at the time, the 
credit results received by NewDay didnt show this or any other defaults or issues that would 
raise concerns. 
Considering Mr Cs income and based on a credit limit of £600 I think the checks carried out 
were reasonable. I dont think the results received raised concerns that meant further checks 
were required and they didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the credit card. 
Therefore I do not find I can say that NewDay was irresponsible in providing the credit card 
to Mr C in February 2017 with a limit of £600.
In July 2018, NewDay wrote to Mr C about a credit limit increase. I note NewDays 
comments about Mr C having the option to opt out of this and can see this was included in 
the letter; however, this doesnt mean that adequate checks werent required before the 
credit limit increase was offered to ensure it was affordable for Mr C.
I have looked at the information gathered before the limit increase was applied. This shows 
that Mr Cs credit card was at the limit and while he had exceeded the limit by a small 
amount in the months of July 2017 to November 2017 he had then kept it within the limits for 
the subsequent months to the point of the increase (aside from going over the limit by 11 
pence in June 2018). He was making regular payments towards his account. Based on the 
information gathered at this time, including information about his other debts, I do not find I 
have enough to say it was irresponsible to offer Mr C the credit limit increase to £1,200 in 
August 2018.
Mr C applied for a second credit card with NewDay in August 2020. His application recorded 
him as being employed with an annual income of £30,000. I havent seen any further 
verification but based on the bank statements provided I do not find I can say this would 
have been found to be incorrect had further checks taken place. At this time Mr Cs 
unsecured debts were £9,400. While this was much higher than the amount recorded 
previously, Mr Cs credit results didnt suggest he was struggling to manage his debts. 
As this was Mr Cs second credit card with NewDay I have considered the total credit being 
provided and while I can see Mr C had increased his use of his first credit card towards the 
limit of £1,200 within the first few months, he had then managed the account and kept it 
within the limit in the months before his a second application was made. 
Overall, I think the checks carried out before the second card was provided were reasonable 
and I do not find I have enough to say that based on these NewDay acted irresponsibly by 
providing the second credit card with a £600 limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman