DRN-3298874
The complaint
Miss R complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. She experienced issues with the water system leaking. The dealer 
attempted repairs, but Miss R continued to have problems.
Miss R complained to MotoNovo, who arranged an inspection. The engineer said there 
wasnt a fault and that the previous repairs had been successful.
Miss R continued to have problems and took the car to a garage who diagnosed a failing 
head gasket. Miss R reported this to MotoNovo, who inspected the car again. The engineer 
said the leak wasnt anything to do with the previous repairs but had been caused by a 
deteriorated water pump input shaft. The engineer said the issue wit the head gasket had 
been caused by thermal stressing as a result of coolant leakage and said the supplying 
dealer should be responsible for half of the cost of repairs.
MotoNovo said the first inspection hadnt found any evidence of thermal stressing and said it 
didnt think the dealership was responsible for any repair costs.
Miss R didnt agree and complained to this service. I issued a provisional decision I which I 
said Id carefully considered both engineering reports. I explained that I was persuaded by 
the second report in its analysis of how thermal stressing develops, and how it could have 
gone unnoticed for several months. The second report linked the leak of coolant to thermal 
stressing and said this had ultimately led to the issues with the head gasket. I explained why 
I was persuaded by this report, and why I didnt think the attempted repairs had been 
successful. I said that because repairs hadnt been successful. Miss R should be allowed to 
reject the car. I also explained why I thought Miss R should have her payments refunded 
from March 2021, because she hadnt been able to use the car since then.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
raise. Neither party responded to my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I see no 
reason to reach different conclusions to those which I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, MotoNovo should allow Miss R to reject the car, refund some of her 
monthly payments and pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
as a result of being supplied with a  car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss R
Refund the deposit
Refund all monthly payments made since March 2021
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman