DRN-3419395
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Close Brother Limited (Close Brothers).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers but Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case like 
this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. 
The car here was about five years old and had already completed about 64,000 miles. So, I 
dont think a reasonable person would expect it to be fault free as they would a new car.
Close Brothers are right to assert that the relevant legislation says if the fault occurs after the
consumer has been in possession of the goods for more than six months we are to assume
it the fault wasnt present when the goods were supplied.
So, the relevant legislation would place the onus on Mr P to demonstrate that the timing
chain failure on the car was something that was developing when he acquired the vehicle.
Mr P hasnt provided any expert reports to argue that point, but I think the evidence suggests
its likely to be the case. Mr P has explained that the pandemic restrictions in place at the
time reduced his use of the car. I can see that was the case as hed only completed about
2,350 miles when he reported the timing chain noise in June 2021, about eight months after
hed taken receipt of the vehicle. Thats much lower than average usage and, as the timing
chain is something thats likely to deteriorate with use, I think Close Brothers should have
taken that into account.
I also think its likely the chain has failed earlier than would normally be expected. On line
research would suggest a timing chain should last at least 80,000 miles.
So, given the very limited mileage completed since inception and evidence that suggests a
replacement was premature, I think the fault was likely to have been developing when the
car was supplied to Mr P.
Mr P was happy to have the car repaired and hes provided a receipt for the repairs he had
completed in November 2021. I think it would therefore be reasonable for Close Brothers to
refund that cost of £500 and as Mr P has been deprived of that money theyll need to add
interest to any refund.
I also think Mr P has experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue.
He reported the fault to Close Brothers in June 2021 but as they didnt accept his claim the
repair wasnt completed until November 2021. When Mr P reported the problem to Close
Brothers he told them the car was noisy and he therefore had to continue to drive a noisy car
whilst he waited for a resolution. He also had to arrange his own repairs when I think, on the
evidence provided, Close Brothers could have resolved the matter earlier and completed
repairs for him. In those circumstances I think Close Brothers should pay Mr P £150 to
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Close
Brothers Limited to:
Refund the £500 Mr P paid to repair the car and add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr P nor Close Brothers had any further information to add so Ive not seen any 
reason to change my provisional decision on this complaint.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
Refund the £500 Mr P paid to repair the car and add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Pay Mr P £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman