DRN-3258516
The complaint
M complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling of a claim made under their 
commercial insurance policy. Any references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
In April 2019, a property M owned was damaged by a fire. The tenants of the property were
two separate businesses. M made a claim to AXA.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim and a structural engineer. The structural
engineer identified the fire caused damage to the roof of the building, leading to half of it
collapsing to the first floor. The walls were deemed to have been covered with smoke and
soot deposited but no structural damage was identified, beyond that to the roof and the tops
of the walls at the front half of the building.
As the property had been rented out, M wanted to claim for a loss of rent as a result of the
fire, as allowed under the policy. AXA asked M to provide copies of the leases, but M wasnt 
able to do so. They said the tenants had moved in many years ago when the property was 
owned by a late relative. The tenancies and rental payments arranged via a verbal 
agreement. M provided bank statements to show the rental payments received. After some 
time trying to determine if there were any leases available, AXA agreed to start making 
payments for loss of rent in a few months after the fire. It paid M the equivalent of 15 months 
lost rental income.
In terms of the property itself, Ms initial preference was for it to be demolished and rebuilt.
However, AXA said none of the evidence available supported this as a necessary option.
AXA said it was agreed by both its loss adjuster and the surveyor appointed by M the
building could be reinstated. The claim would be settled by a cash settlement as requested
by M.
After schedules of works had been devised, AXA made M a cash offer of £101,000 to settle
the claim. It deducted 20% of the reinstatement costs to reflect the wear, tear and
depreciation of the building. M didnt accept this offer and discussions continued over the 
next few months about what an appropriate settlement figure would be to reinstate the
building.
In March 2020, as the offer hadnt been accepted, another site meeting was arranged. At
this point, it was agreed a new schedule of works would be developed. The schedule of 
works was put out to tender, with an offer made to Ms surveyor for their own contractor to 
provide an estimate. AXA says this wasnt received from Ms surveyor. AXA said the tender 
process established the repairs could be completed for £119,429.72 + VAT. It felt its original 
cash offer remained fair and reasonable.
Unhappy with the handling of the claim, M made two complaints. AXA issued its first final 
response in October 2019. It reiterated its view of settling the claim was fair and reasonable. 
But it accepted there had been some delays and paid £250 compensation for this. AXAs 
second final response letter was issued in June 2020. It considered the reason the claim had 
taken so long to settle was because Ms expectations of the settlement were unreasonable. 
It reiterated the basis on which it would be prepared to settle the claim.
M remained unhappy with AXAs proposed settlement and referred their complaint to this
service. They said to put things right AXA should provide loss of rent for 36 months and pay
for their surveyors fees. The also said AXA should increase the cash settlement in line with
the value put forward by their surveyor and make a payment for the distress and
inconvenience experienced.
Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who said that overall, she wouldnt
recommend AXA increase its settlement of the claim. But she did think it needed to provide
an additional £100 in respect of the inconvenience experienced. While AXA accepted this
conclusion, M didnt agree.
In December 2021, I issued a provisional decision. Heres what I said:
The cash settlement
Its clear from reviewing the file that Ms preferred way to settle this claim has always been
by way of a cash settlement. The central issue in dispute is how the figure behind the cash
settlement is calculated.
AXA put forward its initial figure to cash settle this claim in August 2019. When this was
declined by M, AXA set out three options to resolve the claim. The first was the cash
settlement, the second was for Ms surveyor to put forward a schedule of works to be put out
to tender, or for AXA to do so and any payment would be offered in line with the lowest
tender. This approach isnt unusual in terms of setting out how claims can be settled, and I
dont think AXA did anything wrong in setting out these three options.
However, it was clear there was a significant difference between the initial figure of £101,000 
put forward by AXA in August 2019 and the counter offer of £195,000 from Ms surveyor in 
January 2020.
AXA maintained whilst Ms surveyor provided figures for how much it might cost to reinstate
the building this were insufficiently evidenced. Ive considered the survey provided by Ms
surveyor. I agree the breakdown of costs is not as detailed I would have expected to see
when setting out a schedule of works that is due to be put out to tender.
M queried why some of the items on the list by his surveyor werent detailed on the schedule
of works that were drawn up. However, when Ms surveyor considered the tender their only
comments were to refer back to the online reviews of the contractor who submitted the
lowest quote. There was no evidence to suggest any necessary works to reinstate the
building was missing from the tender.
Ahead of the schedule of works being drawn up in 2020, Ms surveyor attended a site visit,
along with AXAs loss adjuster. They, along with an independent surveyor, agreed the
schedule of works. Im satisfied the surveyor appointed by M had every opportunity to
influence or raise concerns about the schedule of works before it was put out to tender. On
the basis they didnt, Ive reached the conclusion they agreed with the works set out in the
schedule of works required to reinstate the building.
Im also satisfied Ms surveyor had the opportunity to nominate a contractor to submit their
tender, but they declined to do so. AXA had made it clear if the schedule of works was put
out to tender, its liability would be limited to the lowest tender. This is the basis on which it
made its offer to M in June 2020. Im satisfied this was a fair and transparent approach. On
this basis, Im not intending to recommend the schedule of works is revised any further.In deciding if AXA is acting fairly in offering M a cash settlement, Ive considered the policy
terms AXA say apply to Ms policy. While AXA has provided a breakdown of the areas it
considered should be subject to a deduction as a result of wear and tear, it hasnt provided
any evidence to show these items would have depreciated since the inception of the policy.
AXA has provided an email from June 2020, which states the deduction was subjective and
based on the levels of effective maintenance. However, it hasnt provided any evidence to
support its view that the property may have needed maintenance. The evidence on the file
suggests the property was around 30 years old and unlikely to need any major work before
the fire.
In addition to this, AXA has said M doesnt intend to reinstate the property. I dont consider
thats an entirely accurate assessment of the situation as throughout the claim, M expressed
concern about reinstating the building to attract new tenants.
I appreciate the initial view of M was that the property ought to be demolished. However, as
this view wasnt supported by any of the experts who attended the site, they seem to have
accepted that the property can be reinstated. I consider the tender process has been fair and
transparent throughout. However, given there is no evidence to show why a deduction for
wear, tear and maintenance should be made, Im intending to require AXA to pay the full
amount of the lowest tender for the reinstatement works (excluding VAT) to M, less any
payments it has already made.
Loss of rent
Ill turn now to the issue of the lost rent. Its accepted by both sides that this part of the claim
was more complicated to consider because there were no leases available for each of the 
tenants. This is because the tenants had been in the property for over 20 years, when the
property was owned by a late relative.
Ive considered if AXAs enquiries in considering the loss of rent payments were reasonable.
I think they were, and Ill explain why.
In assessing the payments a customer is entitled to when making a claim, its reasonable for
an insurer to make reasonable enquiries to ensure a payment is made in line with the policy
terms. I appreciate M were unable to provide a copy of any tenancy agreements. But this is
a normal and routine request for an insurer to make in these circumstances. When tenancy
agreements were unable to be provided, AXA then had to consider what information M could
provide to determine the rental payments made by their tenants. Reviewing the information
provided by their bank statements took time for AXA to have a complete picture. While I
appreciate starting the payments took longer than M would have liked, I dont consider AXAs
enquiries unreasonable, and I dont consider they had enough information to start the
payments sooner.
In February 2020, AXA made an offer for 15 months loss of rent. This was for the 10 months
lost rent since the fire occurred, and then another five months for the claim to be resolved.
However, it wasnt until June 2020 that AXA put forward its final cash offer following the
tender process. I consider this gave no real allowance for the time it would take for the
works to be completed and therefore ideally put the property in a position where it could be
rented out again, as M had indicated was their hope.
AXAs logic for capping the loss of rent at 15 months was because it considered it waited a
long time for Ms solicitor to progress the claim and for M to obtain a schedule of works from
their surveyor that was fit for purpose. I dont think AXA should have waited for this  if they
thought M was taking too long then AXA should have started the process or arranging aschedule of works. It was clear from very early on in the claim that M wanted a cash
settlement and didnt agree the initial offer was sufficient. On this basis, I dont think there
was a real reason to delay when AXA knew the condition of the building could deteriorate.
There isnt any doubt this claim has taken a long time to resolve, and there have been
occasions where both sides have contributed to the delays.
While both sides have clarified the policy will cover up to 36 months loss of rent, this doesnt
mean AXA has to pay this amount if the claim can be settled sooner. I consider the 15
months payment to reflect the time from the fire until the cash settlement reiterated again
following the tender process in June 2020 a fair stating point. However, I consider a fair and
reasonable resolution to this part of the claim is for AXA to pay M an additional loss of rent
payment to reflect the number of months it is likely to take for the reinstatement works to be
completed. This is because while any work is completed, M will be unable to look for new
tenants.
Pending any further comments, Im intending to require AXA to increase the loss of rent
payment to include this number of months estimated by its contractor to carry out the
repairs, as long as this doesnt take the amount over the limit set out in the policy terms for
the claim.
Reimbursement of fees
AXA says it has reimbursed £4,308 of the fees M incurred from their qualitive surveyor. M
says AXA has not reimbursed all of the fees paid to their surveyor.
AXA says while it has paid the majority of the fees incurred, it declined to pay those for the
amendments to the report in December 2019. It says that the amendments were minor, not
needed and M didnt ask if AXA would pay for an updated report.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and cant see a requirement on AXA to pay these fees for an
expert appointed by M. It was Ms choice to appoint the surveyor, but it wasnt necessary for
them to do in order to resolve the claim. I agree any revisions to the report in December
2019 were minor and didnt aid the progression of the claim. On this basis, and that AXA are
not required to reimburse M for these fees, I consider AXAs approach is fair and reasonable
here. Im not intending to require it to increase any payments made to reimburse M in
relation to their surveyors fees.
AXAs decision not to continue to insure the property
I appreciate M is unhappy with AXAs decision not to continue to offer cover on the property
before this matter is fully settled. However, not continuing to offer cover doesnt preclude
AXA from its obligations in settling this claim.
Ive considered AXAs actions here. It gave M several months notice that it was intending
not to renew cover, and then continued to offer some limited cover. I appreciate M has
indicated it is difficult to find further cover for the property. However, Im not intending to
require AXA to continent to offer insurance for the property because I cant require it to do
so.
AXAs handling of the claim
Ill turn now to Ms concerns about AXAs handling of the claim. Ill start by acknowledging
this was a very difficult situation for M. This property and its rental income were intended to
provide for M in their later life.
As this is a commercial insurance policy, Ive considered the inconvenience M hasexperienced, however, while I dont doubt that there has been some inconvenience
experienced, a significant amount of this was as a result of the claim having to be made. M
complained about the handling of the interview carried out by AXA and said they have
experienced financial difficulties as a result of the time taken to resolve this claim. However,
it was a complex claim requiring a significant amount of information before the claim could
be settled. While I can see M found the interview in particular upsetting, I consider this was a
necessary part of the process to resolving the claim.
AXA acknowledged there were delays in the early handling of the claim. And it has already
agreed to a total payment of £350 to reflect this, and the recommendation from our
investigator. And while I can see M says this matter took too long, I think it is fair to say that
at times, both sides contributed to the time taken to resolve this matter. The lack of tenancy
agreements significantly delayed the loss of rent payments starting. However, as Ive said,
Im satisfied AXAs enquiries here were reasonable.
I can see it also took a long time for the meeting at the building site to be arranged in March
2020. By this time, AXA had put forward a proposed cash settlement and corresponded with
the solicitor appointed by M. It had made its position clear in that there were three options
available to M at this time. They could accept the cash settlement put forward in August
2019. Alternatively, M could arrange for their surveyor to draw up a schedule of works or
take a cash settlement at the lowest tender. I think AXA made its position about how the
claim could be settled fairly early on. So, while I can see this matter did take a long time to
be resolved, I think this was because both sides had to work through a number of issues
before the claim could be settled.
Overall, I am satisfied the payment of £350 fairly recognises the inconvenience M
experienced, and for the reasons Ive given, Im not intending to require AXA to increase
this.
AXA responded to the provisional decision. It disputed two key findings. The first was the 
recommendation it not make a deduction for wear and tear as part of the cash settlement. It 
also disagreed with my intended recommendation to increase the loss of rent payment. 
M didnt accept the provisional decision either. Ive summarised Ms key points below:
- the overall handling of the claim has been poor, with meetings cancelled and 
documents not shared, and they didnt think AXAs surveyor carried out a survey as 
detailed as their own surveyor;
- AXA wasted time asking for leases when M was upfront in saying couldnt be 
provided, and there was a complete lack of contact from AXA for several months;
- they felt AXA changed their minds when they had been told there was no need to put 
the schedule of works out to tender but AXA later did so, and this further delayed the 
claim;
- they are still unhappy with how they were spoken to during the interview
- they still dont think the contractor AXA accepted a tender from should be used, due 
to poor online reviews;
- AXA should pay a further 12 months for loss of rent;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the additional comments both sides have made, Im not intending to 
reach a different conclusion to that outlined in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.AXAs handling of the claim
I appreciate M has very strong feelings about how the claim was handled and how they 
consider this could have been improved. Ive reviewed their comments, all of which have 
been made in some form through Ms correspondence and were considered before I 
reached my provisional decision.
I have also considered their comments about the interview during the earlier stages of the 
claim. I appreciate M found this challenging and difficult, but this was a part of the process of 
working towards settling the claim. I remain of the view that, at various points, both sides 
contributed to delays in settling the claim. Where AXA was responsible for these delays, I 
am satisfied it has made a compensation payment that is appropriate in the circumstances 
and I am not going to require AXA to increase this. 
I appreciate there were times when M considered that AXA was delaying matters. For 
example, M considers AXA ought to have accepted their word that there were no leases 
available for the tenants. But I am satisfied AXA was entitled to make broader enquiries 
beyond accepting what it had been told by M. I also consider that it was appropriate for AXA 
to put the schedule of works out to tender, even if it had originally indicated to M it might not 
do so. This was not an unusual step for an insurer to take.
In responding the provisional decision, M specifically asked about reimbursement of a 
particular fee. But I can see AXAs loss adjuster sent an email to Ms broker setting out the 
contribution it would make to the surveyors fees M incurred and for those for securing the 
property. On this basis, Im not intending to make a further recommendation
I appreciate this claim has taken a long time to be resolved. M considers AXA contributed to 
this by cancelling meetings and not sharing documents, Im satisfied AXAs payment for the 
inconvenience experienced by M is a fair and reasonable.  
The cash settlement
M argues the cash settlement should not be based on the tender of Bs chosen contractor. M 
says this on the basis they have poor online reviews. I see no reason why AXA should not 
rely on its contractor. An opportunity was provided for Ms surveyor to appoint a contractor to 
tender, but they chose not to. Ultimately, Im satisfied that the surveyor M appointed had 
opportunity to comment and influence schedule of works. 
Ive considered again the payments made by AXA as the claim progressed. I can see AXA 
sent an email to Ms broker in June 2020, setting out the payments that had been made. 
This appeared to include payments for emergency repairs to secure the property. 
M says the building had been altered specifically for the needs of one of the original tenants, 
but this may not be needed any more and the building potentially could be reconfigured. 
AXA says M has always been clear in the intention to demolish the building rather than 
reinstate it. I acknowledge that was Ms initial intention for the property, but I think it is clear 
from the expert findings the property could be reinstated. 
Ive considered AXAs comments about why it made the deduction from the cash settlement.  
In response to my provisional decision, it said the deduction should be made because all 
buildings require maintenance. But it hasnt shown this building needed maintenance before 
the fire. I appreciate without the sight of leases, its difficult to know whose responsibility 
maintenance was. Without any evidence to show the property needed maintenance, I dont 
think its fair for a deduction should be made. Ive again considered the comments made by AXAs loss assessor which notes the deduction for depreciation is subjective. Im not 
satisfied AXA has shown it would be fair to make the deduction. On that basis, Im requiring 
pay M the full amount indicated in the lowest tender, excluding VAT and less any
payments already made
Loss of rent 
M says loss of rent should be paid for another12 months. They say it will be difficult for them 
to get new tenants for a number of different reasons. I appreciate this might be the case, but 
I do not think the insurance is there to provide cover in these circumstances. Instead, its 
there to provide cover for loss of rent where an insured event has taken place
AXA says M is responsible for the delay in settling the claim, just as M considers AXA is 
responsible. Both have focused their comments on the timing of late 2019, after AXA made 
the first offer to settle the claim. AXA says it made the offer but then heard nothing further 
from M or their broker until Ms solicitor wrote to decline the offer. M says their solicitor wrote 
to AXA several times without receiving a response. I can see it took several weeks for AXA 
to reply to Ms solicitor. However, during this time, there was also an offer from AXA that had 
been made, and not accepted by M, without what appeared to be any further 
correspondence about how to move the claim forward.  
The further comments made by both sides in response to my provisional decision havent 
caused me to reach a different conclusion. As Ive said, I consider that, at times, both sides 
contributed to the time it took for this claim, to be settled, but the recent comments havent 
changed my mind. To settle this part of the claim, Ill require AXA to pay an additional 
payment for loss of rent. This should be based on the estimated timeframe by AXAs 
contractor to carry out the reinstatement works.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay M the full amount indicated in the lowest tender, excluding VAT and less any
payments already made; and
pay M an additional payment for loss of rent, based on the estimated timeframe given 
by AXAs contractor to carry out the reinstatement works.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman