DRN-2162399
The complaint
G complains about end of contract charges when an agreement with LeasePlan UK Limited 
ended.
What happened
In June 2016 G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
LeasePlan. The term of the agreement was three years.
In July 2019 the car was inspected and charges totalling £436 were applied for damage 
which exceeded fair wear and tear.
G disputed the charges and said the marks on the car were smaller than the required size to 
be chargeable according to the guidelines. 
G couldnt reach agreement with LeasePlan so brought the complaint to this service.
More than one investigator has looked at this complaint. The first investigator didnt think the 
damage to the rear bumper, or the offside wing was chargeable. He thought the charges to 
the OSR quarter, and the nearside wing were fair. He recommended that LeasePlan remove 
the charges for the offside wing and the rear bumper leaving G with £243 to pay.
G pointed out that LeasePlan had already agreed to remove the charges for the nearside 
wing. So, the investigator then said G should only be liable for £93 of charges.
LeasePlan didnt agree with the decision. It said it had raised a credit of £186, leaving a 
balance of £250. It said the credit was for the nearside wing and a further £36 as a gesture 
of goodwill. It said it believed that the rest of the charges were payable.
A second investigator looked at the complaint again. She reviewed the damage charges and 
thought that all of these had been fairly applied. She said the credit of £186 which had 
already been applied to the account was a fair resolution.
G didnt agree. He didnt understand why the second investigator had reached a different 
conclusion to the first investigator. G also said that the marks on the car were less than 8mm 
and were therefore chips not scratches and not chargeable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that G must return the car in good condition 
and that any damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear is the customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to several areas which LeasePlan 
says goes beyond fair wear and tear. The following damage charges were applied;
Scratches NS wing £150
Scratches OS wing £93
Scratches OS RQ £93
Scratches rear bumper £100
Ive looked carefully at all the damage including the photos. Ive had regard to the BVLRA 
guidelines in doing so. Im satisfied that all the damage exceeds fair wear and tear and that 
the charges have been applied fairly. The second investigator provided a detailed 
explanation of why the damage falls outside of the BVLRA guidelines and I agree with her 
reasoning. I wont repeat it here.
Ive taken into account what G has said about which guidelines should be used to assess 
whether the damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. And Ive thought about his argument 
that scratches (as identified in the inspection report) arent scratches but are chips. G says 
that he was sent guidance by LeasePlan which says that anything under 8mm is classed as 
a chip not a scratch.
Ive looked at the current BVLRA guidance.  This service uses BVLRA guidelines to ensure 
an impartial approach. G may have looked at some different guidance. But this isnt 
guidance that this service would take into account because it isnt industry guidance. Having 
looked at the damage and taken into account the BVLRA guidance, Im satisfied that the 
damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Taking everything into consideration, Im of the view that the charges have been fairly 
applied. I think LeasePlan has acted fairly by removing some of the charges even though it 
didnt have to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman