DRN-4188343
The complaint
Mr Q complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs settlement of a claim under his car 
insurance.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr Q had car insurance underwritten by AXA. He made a claim on 16 November 2022 after 
an accident the previous day.
AXA took the car for assessment. But it was around four months later, on 15 March 2023, 
that they informed Mr Q the car was a write off and paid his claim.
Mr Q complained to AXA about the delays and the fact he hadnt had a car for four months.
AXA responded in February 2023 to say they hadnt yet completed their investigation into 
Mr Qs complaint. They said because eight weeks had passed since he made the complaint, 
he was entitled to refer it to our service  which he did.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AXA had treated Mr Q fairly or reasonably. 
She thought they should pay Mr Q £10 per day for 112 days to reflect the fact that Mr Q had 
been denied the use of a car in that period due to AXAs errors. And she said they should 
pay Mr Q a further £250 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
AXA disagreed with our investigators assessment. They said theyd offered Mr Q a courtesy 
car, which hed declined. They also said Mr Q wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the 
terms of the policy.
Our investigator explained why she still thought the proposed outcome was correct and 
asked AXA if they wanted to refer the case to an ombudsman. Because AXA didnt reply to 
that request, the case has been referred to me now for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA are right to say the policy terms dont provide for a courtesy car in this situation. The 
terms say the policyholder will be entitled to a courtesy car whilst their own vehicle is being 
repaired. Theyre not entitled to a courtesy car if the car has been written off, or whilst AXA 
decide whether to repair the car or write it off.
I think AXA are missing the point here though. They took four months to decide whether the 
car was a write off or not  or at least, to inform Mr Q of that decision and pay his claim.
Thats not reasonable and not fair to Mr Q. AXA havent provided any explanation  either to 
Mr Q in response to his complaint or to us  for that extreme delay. There appears to be no 
reason or excuse for it, other than incompetence and poor claim handling by AXA and/or 
AXAs agents.
So, the argument that the policy terms mean Mr Q wasnt entitled to a courtesy car in the 
period where his car was being assessed is entirely without merit. Mr Q was left without his 
car  or the financial means to replace it  which is what hes entitled to under the policy 
terms, for fully four months. And that was because of AXAs errors and delays in handling 
the claim properly.
I note AXAs point that they offered Mr Q a courtesy car and he declined. If they had offered 
him a car to cover the entire period, Id say it was Mr Qs fault if he was left without a car 
having not accepted that offer. 
However, AXA offered to give Mr Q a courtesy car for five days. Understandably, he didnt 
wish to accept that as a full resolution of his situation and/or his complaint. AXA say they 
intended the five days to be a minimum period, after which the provision of the car would be 
reviewed and possibly extended. But I cant see any evidence that they explained this to 
Mr Q.
In summary, AXAs errors (or their agents errors) led Mr Q to be without a car  or the 
means to replace his vehicle  for four months. He was entitled to think that after he made 
his claim, he would either have his car repaired (and a courtesy car provided whilst it was 
being repaired) or a cash settlement so that he could replace the car at its current value, 
within a reasonable period of time.
Putting things right
We think £10 per day is fair and reasonable compensation for an individual who has been 
deprived of the use of a car. 
Our investigator calculated that it was around 119 days or so from the claim being made to 
Mr Q being paid the settlement by AXA. 
She asked them to pay the £10 per day redress for 112 days (in total £1,120). This reflects 
the fact that she thought a week was sufficient time for AXA to have made an assessment of 
the car  and decided it was a write off. And Im satisfied thats not unreasonable.
She also noted that Mr Q had experienced a degree of stress and frustration during this 
period, because he didnt know what was going to happen and couldnt understand the 
delays. 
Its also true that AXAs communication with Mr Q during this period was very poor. He had 
to chase them for information on progress of his claim and often, when they did respond, 
their explanations were unclear and/or didnt address the points Mr Q had made.
Bearing all of that in mind, Im also satisfied that the compensation our investigator 
suggested for Mr Qs trouble and upset - £250 - was entirely fair and reasonable. This quite 
prolonged experience must have been upsetting, frustrating and stressful for Mr Q.
I can see that when she sent her view to both Mr Q and AXA, our investigator made a small 
error in calculation, asking AXA to pay Mr Q £1,320 in total. Whereas in fact, Im going to 
require them to pay £1,370 (£1,120 for loss of use of a car plus £250 compensation). 
But that error is of no real consequence in terms of what our investigator suggested as the outcome to his case, so theres no purpose at all in my giving AXA another chance now to 
respond to the very slightly amended outcome set out in this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Qs complaint. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay Mr Q a total of £1,370 - £1,120 for loss of use of a car for 
112 days plus £250 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman