DRN-1657871
 
The complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in March 1998.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In March 1993 Mrs G applied for a store card by completing an application form while she 
was shopping. In March 1998, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs G owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs G couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call script used at the time. So I dont know what it may 
have said to Mrs G when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of the sales 
process and given the fact that PPI was added some time after the store card application 
was made, I think Mrs G would have understood the policy was optional and that she chose 
to take it out. And it certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit  shed had 
the store card for five years when she bought the policy.
And the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on her statements  so if she hadnt 
agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her knowledge or her consent, I 
think its reasonable to say she wouldve queried the premiums shortly after the policy was 
added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs G knew the policy was optional and 
chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs G to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about 
the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Mrs G received about the policy at 
the time of sale. Even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mrs G was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Mrs G 
says she wouldve received some sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to Mrs Gs employment benefits so could have proved 
useful to Mrs G if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also have 
benefited from purchase protection and the additional life cover.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs G to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs G had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding 
balance was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, Im not satisfied that AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to 
Mrs G. But I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still 
have taken out the cover if hed been properly informed about it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Gs comments but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman