DRN-2291267
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) failed 
to inform him that a large part of his Self -Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) had been 
disinvested following a full transfer request, made in error.
He says when the full transfer was stopped, and a partial transfer made instead Hargreaves 
failed to inform him that the majority of his pension pot remained in cash.
What happened
 In November 2018 Mr P made a request to Hargreaves Lansdown (Hargreaves) for £20,000 
of uninvested cash in his SIPP to be transferred to Standard Life.
Hargreaves responded and explained that the new provider (Standard Life) would need to 
contact Hargreaves and request the transfer.
Mr P contacted Standard life to request a transfer and, in error, asked for a full transfer of his 
plan. He then contacted Standard Life again to explain he only wanted part of his plan  the 
£20,000 uninvested cash- to be transferred.
Standard Life didnt take proper note of the contact from Mr P and requested a transfer of his 
full pension plan. His pension pot was worth around £390,000.
On 21 November 2018 the request for a full transfer was received by Hargreaves, via Origo-
an automated system.
On 4 December 2018 Hargreaves processed the transfer request and sent a letter to Mr P 
informing him the transfer was taking place.
Between 4 and 6 December 2018 Hargreaves sold Mr Ps investments in preparation for the 
transfer of the whole of his plan. But the transfer was not completed at that time because 
Hargreaves was awaiting the tax relief on an investment made by Mr P in October 2018, 
which was due around 21 December 2018.
On 21 December 2018 Mr P contacted Hargreaves pension helpdesk. He explained he had 
requested a partial transfer from his plan, but he had received a letter that suggested his 
account was being closed. Hargreaves explained this was because Standard Life had 
requested a full transfer. So, it said he would need to ask Standard Life to re-request the 
transfer through Origo.
At that time the full transfer was stopped, and Standard Life requested a partial transfer of 
£20,000 instead.
On 8 January 2019 £20,000 was transferred from Mr Ps Hargreaves pension plan to the 
new Standard Life plan. The rest of his plan remained uninvested, in cash.
On 1 February 2019 Mr P logged into his online account to make a contribution to his 
pension plan and he then used that contribution to make an investment.
In February 2019 Hargreaves issued an investment report to Mr P detailing the sales and 
transactions for his SIPP.
In April 2019 Mr P realised his assets were being held in cash which prompted him to 
complain to Hargreaves. He contacted Hargreaves on 23 April 2019 to ask why all the 
assets in his plan were being held in cash.
On 9 May 2019 Standard Life wrote to Hargreaves and confirmed it had requested a full 
transfer on 21 November 2018. It said when it became aware this was an error, it had sent a 
request for a partial transfer on 21 December 2018.
In June 2019 Hargreaves responded to Mr Ps complaint. It said on 21 November 2018 it 
had received a transfer request from Standard Life to transfer the full balance of Mr Ps SIPP 
to its platform. It said it processed these instructions and as a result, Mr Ps investments 
were sold on 4 and 5 December. It said Mr P had contacted Hargreaves on 21 December 
2018 and explained he had only asked for a partial transfer, and it had also received a new 
request from Standard Life for a partial transfer.
Hargreaves acknowledged that it hadnt contacted Mr P or Standard Life to ask how to 
proceed with regards the uninvested cash and apologised. It also noted that Standard Life 
had been in contact to confirm the error and to arrange a resolution for Mr P and it 
apologised that Hargreaves had not communicated with Standard Life as promptly as it 
could have done.
But Hargreaves said it couldnt be held liable for any losses caused by the error in 
requesting a full transfer of the plan. It acknowledged it hadnt acted promptly during the 
correction of the transfer and offered Mr P £300 for any trouble and upset caused.
Hargreaves also asked Mr P what he wanted to do with the uninvested cash from the sale 
proceeds.
Mr P disagreed with Hargreaves and said he had lost out because the assets in his plan had 
been disinvested and then remained in cash.
Mr P also complained to Standard Life. It issued its final response in September 2019. It 
acknowledged it had made an error in requesting a full transfer and said it would pay 
compensation for any losses caused up to 21 December 2018. But it said it wasnt 
responsible for the investments remaining disinvested after that time.
Mr P reinvested his pension plan when he transferred it in around October 2019.
Mr P referred his complaint against Hargreaves to our service. Our investigator considered 
his complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. She said it was Hargreaves 
responsibility to communicate with Mr P and ask him what he wanted to do with the cash 
sitting in his SIPP from sold assets. She also thought that Standard Life had some 
responsibility because it was its mistake that had led to the disinvestment and it hadnt 
followed up on that mistake.So, she said Hargreaves and Standard Life should pay for half of the loss each from early 
December 2018 to April 2019. After that, she said Mr P may have changed his holdings but 
was not given the opportunity to buy or sell funds until his SIPP was transferred away. So, a 
comparison should be carried out between the cash value and a benchmark and again half 
of any loss should be paid by Hargreaves.
The investigator noted that there had been disagreement between the two businesses as to 
who was responsible for the losses and the costs of reinvestment which hadnt helped 
matters. She thought that had left Mr P in a difficult position with regards to reinvestment. 
She noted Mr P hadnt reinvested the money until October 2019.
Hargreaves disagreed and pointed out that it had sent Mr P emails informing him of the 
sales and it said contract notes had been available on his online account. It also said Mr P 
had logged into his account in February 2019 and it had issued an investment report to him 
in February 2019 which detailed all the transactions on his account including the sales.
Hargreaves said Mr P should have monitored his account. So, it said Mr P should have been 
aware that the assets in his plan had been sold and were being held in cash.
The investigator reviewed further documentation provided by the parties in relation to the 
emails and contract notes. She noted that Mr P had an online SIPP which meant it was his 
responsibility to monitor his own investments. The investigator considered that as Mr P had 
received the letter from Hargreaves which referred to the closure of his account and the 
sales emails, he should have been aware that the assets had been sold. So, she didnt think 
Hargreaves could be held responsible for the losses caused by disinvestment.
Mr P disagreed and said he had thought the emails were marketing emails and it wasnt 
clear from those emails that sales had taken place. He said he hadnt opened them and so 
hadnt seen their content referring to contract notes. Mr P said he hadnt looked at his 
account to check as he didnt have any reason to think the assets in his plan had been sold.
He also said the letter regarding the transfer and account closure was ambiguous and he 
reiterated that Hargreaves hadnt told him that his assets had been sold when he contacted 
them on 21 December 2018.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that Hargreaves should have taken further 
steps to inform Mr P that his funds had been disinvested once it became aware there had 
been an error with the transfer. 
I also concluded that all three parties had some responsibility for what occurred after the 
initial error with the transfer. So, I said that Hargreaves should pay a third of any losses from 
22 December 2018 to 30 April 2019. 
Mr P acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision.
Hargreaves didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
It was disappointed that I thought Hargreaves should be responsible for a proportion of the 
losses incurred by Mr P. 
In the 21 December 2018 call it was confirmed to Mr P that he had to contact Standard Life 
in order for it to resubmit new instructions to arrange a partial transfer. Hargreaves was acting upon Standard Lifes instruction and had no indication at that stage 
as to whether Mr P or Standard Life had made an error. It said while Mr P had confirmed his 
intention of only transferring £20,000 to Standard Life, that didnt necessary mean those 
were the instructions he gave to Standard Life.
It didnt think the helpdesk operative was obligated to inform Mr P that his investments had 
been sold as it said Hargreaves had already sent Mr P notification that sales had taken place 
in the form of contract notes. 
At no point in the telephone call did Mr P express his displeasure about his investments 
being sold.
Hargreaves suggested that Mr P contact Standard Life about the transfer. So, it didnt think it 
was necessary to duplicate efforts and also contact Standard Life. 
It found it difficult to understand what more it could have done after the telephone call on 21 
December 2018. 
It said Mr P was aware of the error and, as an execution-only service, it would not suggest to 
a client whether they should reinvest or not.
It said Hargreaves made reasonable endeavours to inform Mr P that sales of his existing 
investments had taken place. It notified him of the sales when they took place and against 
investment reports. 
It said, knowing that Standard Life had requested a full transfer, it was reasonable for Mr P 
to have checked his account. 
It further argued that, since the date of the sales, Mr P hadnt demonstrated any urgency to 
reinvest the monies and had only made smaller transactions since February 2019. 
Hargreaves said it didnt feel this demonstrated that Mr P wished to remain invested.  
It said there was no evidence to suggest that Mr P would have reinvested monies following 
the call of 21 December 18 if he had been given more information regarding the options 
available to him. 
It also reiterated its view that Mr Ps new provider was responsible for the original error 
which it said caused the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Ps SIPP with Hargreaves is a type of pension plan where the plan holder decides which 
investments they want to make and manages their own plan. The provider doesnt provide 
the plan holder with advice or recommendations. Instead it carries out the instructions of the 
plan holder and administers their plan.
Mr P initially tried to instruct Hargreaves to transfer part of his pension plan to another 
provider- Standard Life. Specifically, he was looking to transfer £20,000 that was held in 
cash. But Hargreaves explained he would need to contact the new provider- Standard Life  
and ask it to request the transfer.Unfortunately, Mr Ps first instruction to Standard Life was to transfer the whole plan. But he 
then contacted Standard Life to explain there had been an error and he only wanted a partial 
transfer. Standard Life took note of Mr Ps instruction but regrettably it still requested a full 
transfer from Hargreaves.
Hargreaves received the transfer instruction from Standard Life via an automated system. 
And although it had previously been approached by Mr P asking for a partial transfer, I dont 
think it had any reason to question that request. Because the plan holder, Mr P, was entitled 
to transfer his plan. And when Hargreaves received a request from the new provider it was 
entitled to assume, in the absence of any other information, that the new provider was acting 
on the instructions of Mr P.
In early December 2018 Hargreaves sold Mr Ps investments in preparation for the transfer. I 
dont think it was acting incorrectly as this was a standard part of the process.
It then wrote to Mr P on 4 December 2018 confirming a transfer was taking place. The letter 
stated that there was an account closure fee. It also said to contact Hargreaves if Mr P had 
changed his mind about the transfer. But it warned that it wouldnt be possible to cancel any 
sales transactions that had already taken place, if he had requested the transfer as cash.
So, I think it was clear from the tone and contents of that letter that Mr P was making a 
transfer and as a result, closing his account. I note the letter also referenced sales 
transactions and said any sales transactions that had taken place couldnt be cancelled.
This letter prompted Mr P to contact Hargreaves on 21 December 2018. I have seen the 
transcript notes of that call provided by Hargreaves. Mr P questioned why the letter referred 
to a closure fee. He explained he didnt want to close his account  he wanted a partial 
transfer of £20,000.
I think the general impression given by those notes is that Mr P contacted Hargreaves 
because he suspected that something had gone wrong and he was trying to find out what 
had happened. It is recorded that he said:
Ive got a letter, I was trying to transfer part of a pension contribution I made last year, only 
part of it, to another provider. It says in your letter there is an admin charge of £25 which is 
fine, but there is also an account closure fee of £30. I dont want to close the account. Is it 
just a partial cash transfer?
I dont want you to close the account, thats the main thing.
The representative subsequently said to Mr P:
Thank you for waiting, Ive had a look at the documentation, SL requested a full transfer. 
You will need to go to them and they will need to re-request it. I will let our transfer team 
know so they can wait for SL but you will need to contact them. 
So, while I agree Mr P was aware there had been an error (of some kind) I dont think that 
meant he was aware that all the assets in his SIPP had been disinvested at that point. 
I note Hargreaves had sent sales information to Mr P in early December, but Mr P has 
explained he believed they were marketing emails, so he didnt open them and read the 
contents. Overall, I dont think Mr P had understood, from that information, that all the assets 
in his SIPP had been sold and I dont think there was anything in the conversation with 
Hargreaves representative to indicate he was aware.And similarly, I think Mr P didnt express any displeasure about the sale of his investments in 
that call because he wasnt aware, at that time, that all his investments had been sold. 
Mr P has pointed out the customer representative he spoke to didnt inform him that his 
investments had been sold in order to effect the transfer. And if the representative had 
explained this, then I think things would have been much clearer. But I have to consider 
whether in the circumstances, the representative was obliged to inform Mr P.
So, Ive carefully considered what was discussed. I think the customer representative was 
focussing on Mr Ps enquiry around whether his account was being closed and the type of 
transfer taking place. I note Mr P didnt ask, in more general terms, about how the transfer 
process worked. So, I think the customer representative only addressed the specific issue 
raised rather than looking at Mr Ps account more generally.
Having said that, Hargreaves at this point knew a mistake had been made with regards to 
the transfer because it had received an initial request for a full transfer and Mr P had told 
Hargreaves he didnt want to close his account and he only wanted a partial transfer. 
Hargreaves also knew that the assets had been disinvested and were sitting in cash. There 
was also then a new request for a partial transfer. 
I appreciate that Hargreaves provided an execution-only service and so I wouldnt expect it 
to give Mr P advice about what he should do with his investments. But Hargreaves was 
aware that there had been an error with Mr Ps transfer request, and it was also aware that 
all of the assets in Mr Ps SIPP, which amounted to around £390,000 had been disinvested, 
when he only wanted a partial transfer of £20,000.
So, I dont think it is unreasonable to expect Hargreaves, with the knowledge it had, to either 
draw this to Mr Ps attention during the call, or alternatively contact Mr P; either by letter, 
email or telephone, after that call and highlight to him that the assets in his SIPP were 
disinvested. This would simply be providing Mr P with information rather than providing 
advice. 
I also dont think it would have been an unreasonable expectation, or overly onerous, for 
Hargreaves representative to put a note on Mr Ps file or account, to follow up the call, given 
Hargreaves would have been aware of the potential consequences for Mr P of the 
disinvestment of his SIPP investments.
Overall, I think given the circumstances Hargreaves should have communicated this to Mr P 
and/or Standard Life at the time the mistake came to light. And if it had done so, this could 
have been rectified at an early stage. So, I do think Hargreaves bears some responsibility for 
the monies remaining disinvested.
I also note that Hargreaves wasnt an unrelated third party without any involvement in the 
transfer- it had relevant knowledge of what had happened and the financial disadvantage 
which could be caused to Mr P. So, I dont think it was reasonable for it to leave matters as 
they were, even though I acknowledge it wasnt responsible for the initial error.
But just because I consider Hargreaves has some responsibility, it doesnt mean that it 
should be responsible for all of the losses which might have been incurred here. 
Ultimately the mistake was made by a third party, so I dont think it was only Hargreaves 
responsibility to follow up on that mistake and help to rectify it.
I do sympathise with Mr P as his updated instructions hadnt been followed which led to a full 
transfer being requested in error and the assets in his plan being disinvested. But I also must 
consider whether Mr P shouldve acted differently to mitigate any loss to his pension pot.Mr P had an online SIPP, so there was an onus on him to monitor and manage his own 
account. Mr P received several emails from Hargreaves that referred to different investment 
assets and had a specific reference number. Mr P said he thought they were marketing 
emails, so he didnt open them. Mr P has provided a screen shot of the emails and 
Hargreaves has provided a template of the contents of those emails.
I think there were some quite specific details included in the email subject line which would 
have suggested they related to Mr Ps account specifically. And if Mr P had looked at the 
content of the emails, he would have seen the following information:
Thank you for placing your dealing instructions for XXX (name of investment).
A contract note for the deal is now available on our website.
Please check the contract note carefully and if you think any of the details are incorrect 
please contact us immediately
They then went on to explain how to locate the contract note via his online account.
So, I think those emails did raise an issue about what was happening with his pension plan 
and I think, as a result, it was reasonable on balance to expect Mr P to then check his 
account- especially given what he later knew about the mistake which had been made by 
Standard Life in requesting the full transfer.
If Mr P hadnt requested any transfer at all, or had reason to believe that his transfer 
instructions had been properly carried out, then I dont think it would have been reasonable 
to have expected him to frequently check his account to see whether his investments were 
all still there. Because, he wouldnt have had any expectation of them all being sold  as he 
hadnt given that instruction.
But the background to this is that Mr P had made a transfer request and he knew there 
initially had been an error with that request. Then Mr P had received several emails from 
Hargreaves referencing specific investments and informing him that sales had taken place 
(albeit I appreciate that he didnt open those emails). And a letter which indicated his 
account was in the process of being closed. So, I think at that point there was enough 
information to cause him to question what was happening with his plan and investigate this 
further, by accessing his online account. And as I have said this type of plan is designed with 
the intention that plan holders will monitor their accounts.
I also note that Mr P did access his online account in February to make an investment  so 
there was no issue preventing him from checking his investments. He could have done so at 
that time, or earlier in December when this issue first came to light.
Hargreaves also issued an investment report at around that time which detailed all the 
transactions in February 2019. So, I consider there was an additional opportunity to have 
been made aware of what had occurred.
Overall, I think there was sufficient information to have alerted Mr P to a potential issue. So, 
while I do appreciate he didnt cause the initial error, I think he could have mitigated any loss 
if he had responded differently.Would Mr P have reinvested if he had been given further information at an earlier stage?
Hargreaves has also said there is no evidence that Mr P would have reinvested if he had 
been informed of his options in December 2018. However, I dont think this takes into 
account that the only reason Mr P was disinvested in the first place was because his new 
provider hadnt followed his instructions. If the new provider had followed his instructions, 
then the assets in his SIPP would have remained invested. And when Mr P became 
unequivocally aware, in April 2019, he complained to Hargreaves about the very fact that 
those assets had been disinvested and had remained disinvested. So, I am satisfied on 
balance that Mr P didnt reinvest because he wasnt aware that all of the assets in his SIPP 
had been disinvested until April 2019.
Mr P has also explained that he didnt reinvest after he made his complaint because he 
thought doing so might impact his complaint and he was also informed he would have to pay 
the costs of reinvestment. Whilst I dont think Mr P was prevented from reinvesting (as I have 
explained) I think this offers some explanation for why he didnt reinvest. So, Im not 
persuaded on balance that if he had been warned about the disinvestment around the time 
of, or shortly after, the call on 21 December 2018 that he would have happily still remained 
uninvested.
Summary
So, my view is that all parties involved should reasonably share some  but differing degrees 
of - responsibility for any losses incurred. And my view as to how this should be apportioned 
to Hargreaves is as follows.
I consider the responsibility for any initial losses on the disinvested funds until 21 December 
2018 and any fees involved with reinvesting shouldnt be borne by Hargreaves. It was acting 
on a transfer request it had received.
But as Ive said above, I think Hargreaves could have done more to make it clear to Mr P 
that all of his funds which had been disinvested for the purpose of the transfer were now 
held in cash. This was a feature of Mr Ps SIPP which had recently changed in quite a 
substantial way  and was due to an error in the transfer request which Hargreaves was 
aware of, even if it hadnt been the source of the problem.
Its not straightforward to determine how much of the resulting loss - from 22 December to 
when Mr P became unequivocally aware that his funds were held in cash - should be 
attributed to Hargreaves. As Ive said above, I think some responsibility should lie elsewhere, 
and probably in equal proportions for that particular period. So, I think that a fair and 
reasonable resolution here would be to apportion to Hargreaves a third of any losses 
incurred by being disinvested from 22 December 2018 until the end of April 2019.
I appreciate that the assets in Mr Ps plan remained disinvested beyond that time, to around 
October 2019. But I dont think any losses beyond that point are the responsibility of 
Hargreaves. This is because I think that once Mr P was aware of the disinvestment, he 
should have instructed Hargreaves to reinvest the money, even if he couldnt purchase as 
many units in those funds with the cash in his SIPP. This would have been reasonable 
mitigation of any further losses.
I can see the situation wasnt helped by the two businesses disagreeing as to who should be 
responsible for any losses. But ultimately it would have been clear to Mr P that a large 
proportion of his pension plan was sitting in cash rather than being invested. And it seems 
clear that wasnt what he wanted. So, I think he could reasonably have instructed 
Hargreaves to repurchase the relevant funds with the cash available.I note the points raised by Hargreaves in respect of the actions of Mr P and the new 
provider. And I have taken into account that all the parties involved had some responsibility 
for what occurred including, of course, the new provider who made the initial error. Which is 
why I have concluded that Hargreaves should only pay a proportion of the losses over a 
limited period of time.
Putting things right
Hargreaves should pay Mr P one third of any losses due to the disinvestment of Mr Ps SIPP 
from 22 December to 30 April 2019. Hargreaves should calculate the value of the SIPP, had 
the original types of investments (other than those amounting to the £20,000 which should 
have been transferred) remained in whatever the proportion would have existed after Mr Ps 
intended partial transfer using the cash value produced by their earlier disinvestment. And it 
should ensure that it augments the SIPP by one third of any resulting loss amount.
The compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ps SIPP. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
Hargreaves should be able to effect this payment directly into the SIPP. But if a payment into 
the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly 
to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr P hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Trouble and upset
I consider Mr P was caused trouble and upset when he found out the funds in his pension 
plan had been disinvested for several months. But I dont think Hargreaves needs to pay 
more than the £300 it has already offered in that regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ps complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited is upheld in part and it should pay compensation as I have outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman