DRN-3938668
The complaint
Mrs W complains through her attorney, Mr W, that J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration 
Services Limited (JPMT) caused her to lose out on a rights issue.
What happened
Mrs W had shares in Fern Limited which she had invested in through Octopus in 2016. In 
2020 Fern offered a rights issue to shareholders and Octopus wrote to Mrs W about this on 
7 August 2020. It informed her that she could purchase one new share for every existing one 
she held on 5 August 2020. The deadline for her taking up the rights issues was 9 October 
2020. The letter was sent to Mrs W at her home address.
Mrs W couldnt manage her own financial affairs unaided at this time, having been 
diagnosed with Alzheimers disease a couple of years previously. Mr W had been appointed 
as an attorney for Mrs W in 2013 under a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) which was 
registered with the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG).
Mr W was assisting Mrs W with her financial affairs but didnt became aware of the letter 
from Octopus until 5 September 2020. The rights issue was of benefit to Mrs W in terms of 
its Inheritance Tax (IHT) benefits and Mr W wanted to sell some of her JPMT fund holdings 
to release £50,000 to take up the offer.
Mr W spoke to Mrs Ws financial adviser on 5 September 2020 about the rights issue. There 
was some email correspondence over the next few days with Mr W then making an initial 
call to JPMT on 11 September 2020. He then had a more detailed discussion on 14 
September 2020 during which a potential issue was identified with the certified copy of the 
LPA he was relying on.
It was agreed that he would email a copy to JPMT for consideration as he didnt want to 
send in the certified copy if it wasnt going to be accepted. Various discussions took place 
over the next few days, but the outcome was that the certified copy of the LPA wasnt 
acceptable to JPMT and there wasnt time to get a new certified copy in time to take up the 
rights issue. 
JPMT didnt uphold the complaint Mr W made and so he referred this to our service. One of 
our investigators considered it but didnt think it should be upheld, on the basis that it was for 
JPMT to decide what its process should be for accepting an LPA and that it had acted within 
a reasonable time. 
There was further correspondence between Mr W and the investigator, who said JPMT had 
to comply with the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA), the industry 
regulator. She referred to SYSC 6.1 in the FCA handbook - which requires firms to have in 
place adequate policies and procedures to comply with regulatory obligations and to counter 
the risks the firm may be used or financial crime. She pointed out this doesnt specify how 
firms should comply and that this is why firms can have different processes in place.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator, so the matter was referred to me for review. I also 
didnt think JPMT had done anything wrong but issued a provisional decision to address 
various points made by Mr W which had not been covered in the investigators opinion. The 
findings from my provisional decision are set out below.
My role is to come to a fair and reasonable decision about the central issues that are at the 
heart of Mrs Ws complaint. I am not required to address every point raised and if I have not 
made reference to a point made by a party it is because I dont consider it is necessary for 
me to do so to reach a fair and reasonable decision on the complaint that has been made.
I appreciate that as far as Mr W was aware he had a valid certified copy of the LPA and 
before contacting JPMT had no reason to think there was any issue with it. In the 
circumstances I think it will have been frustrating for him to be told that JPMT were unwilling 
to accept the document he was relying on.
However, firms are required to have adequate policies and procedures in place to ensure 
compliance with their regulatory obligations and to counter the risk that they might be used 
to further financial crime  as SYSC 6.1.1R sets out. There is nothing in that rule which 
specifies how firms must go about this so, in effect, firms are left to determine what 
procedures they need. 
Because of this it is inevitable there will be differences between what firms require before 
they will accept a certified copy of an LPA - as was the case here, with another firm 
accepting the certified copy of the LPA Mr W provided without question. This doesnt mean 
there was something wrong with JPMTs requirements and it isnt for me to tell it what 
procedures it should have in place for accepting a certified copy of an LPA. 
I note Mr W made reference more than once in telephone calls with JPMT that for it to verify 
the certified copy of the LPA was simply a matter of contacting the OPG. From what he has 
said he seems  to have thought that the certified copy of the LPA was sent to the OPG in 
2013 along with the original LPA - as he referred to the certified copy being good enough for 
the OPG.
I think Mr Ws starting point for this argument is probably wrong, in that I think the solicitor 
probably certified the copy of the LPA after it had been registered with the OPG. As such I 
dont think the OPG probably did see the certified copy  although as the certification hasnt 
been dated, I cant be certain of this.
In any event, as far as I am aware the OPG doesnt offer a service whereby it would verify a 
copy of an LPA certified by a solicitor it would be surprising in my view if it would get 
involved if it was contacted about this. It is therefore not surprising that when JPMT did 
contact the OPG  as it said it did  the OPG said that it was unable to help.
Turning to the sequence of events in this case, the first time that JPMT were aware there 
might be an issue with the certified copy of the LPA was in the initial telephone call on 14 
September 2020 when Mr W referred to the solicitor who had certified the copy LPA as 
probably being retired. In response to this the person he spoke to said that JPMT wouldnt 
normally accept certification from someone who was retired, and that certification should be 
in the previous 12 months. 
Mr W was unhappy with what he had been told and so was put through to Ms G, a manager. 
It was agreed that Mr W would email a scanned copy of the certified copy of the LPA so 
consideration could be given to whether this would be acceptable. Up to this point the issues 
identified with the certified copy of the LPA were based on the information provided by Mr W 
over the telephone about the solicitor probably being retired as JPMT hadnt up to this point 
seen the document. When the certified copy of the LPA Mr W emailed was considered by JPMT it was identified 
that the certification wasnt dated. So, what it had was a copy of an LPA where the 
certification was undated - so it wasnt possible for it to know when the certification took 
place - and the certifier was no longer a practising solicitor, so it couldnt verify the 
certification through him.
However, in an attempt to resolve this, it did discuss the issue over the certified copy of the 
LPA with the solicitors firm that was operating from the premises that the certifying solicitor 
had worked from. The result of this was that the solicitors said they could provide a new 
certified copy of the LPA if Mr W contacted them about this. 
However, by this time there wasnt enough time to do everything that was needed for the 
rights issue to be taken up before the deadline of 9 October 2020 - I note that JPMT said 
that it contacted Octopus to see if the date for taking up the rights issue could be taken up 
could be pushed back but was told this wasnt possible. 
Mr W doesnt agree there was any issue over the date of certification, and I have considered 
this. The certified copy LPA Mr W sent to JPMT shows that it was signed by the parties in 
2013 and has a date stamp for when it was registered at the OPG of 4 December 2013. The 
solicitor has stamped each page stating it was a true copy of the original. However, he has 
not dated any of the certifications.
Mr W has referred to the solicitor signing and dating the LPA on page eight and page ten. 
However, these were signatures necessary for the proper completion of the LPA itself and 
nothing to do with the provision of certified copies of the LPA. It is clear from the document I 
have seen that the certifications were not dated and as such it isnt possible to know from 
considering the document when these were carried out. 
Mr W has referred to the fact that government legislation didnt require that a certified copy 
of an LPA needs to be dated on every page. This was a reference to the provisions of the 
Powers of Attorney Act 1971 (the POAA) the relevant provisions being as set out below.
3 Proof of instruments creating powers of attorney.
(1)The contents of an instrument creating a power of attorney may be proved by means of a 
copy which
(a) is a reproduction of the original made with a photographic or other device for reproducing 
documents in facsimile; and
(b) contains the following certificate or certificates signed by the donor of the power or by a 
solicitor, authorised person, or stockbroker, that is to say 
(i) a certificate at the end to the effect that the copy is a true and complete copy of the 
original; and
(ii) if the original consists of two or more pages, a certificate at the end of each page of the 
copy to the effect that it is a true and complete copy of the corresponding page of the 
original.
I think the first thing to note is that the certified copy of the LPA didnt comply with the above 
provision because the certifications werent signed by the solicitor as required. 
I acknowledge that the LPA does have his signature, as he signed as a witness to Mrs Ws 
signature and also as the certificate provider  which, to be clear, isnt the same as him certifying to the effect it is a true copy of the original - on pages eight and ten respectively, as 
I have already referred to above. 
Because the solicitor has signed the LPA as I have said, it is apparent he hasnt then signed 
the certifications as required. What is on the certifications may be his initials, but this is 
simply an assumption and in any event doesnt satisfy the requirements of the above 
provision. 
Furthermore, the wording of the certification isnt in accordance with what is set out above in 
that where there is more than one page then, other than at the end, the certifications should 
state it is a true and complete copy of the corresponding page of the original. This form of 
wording is also what is set out when you look online at what the OPG require but is not the 
wording used on the certified copy of the LPA that Mr W relies on  although I acknowledge 
that it isnt uncommon for solicitors to use just the form of wording for the end of the 
document throughout when certifying.
So, it seems to me that contrary to what Mr W suggested to JPMT, the certified copy of the 
LPA he provided to it didnt satisfy the requirements of the POAA and it seems to me JPMT 
could reasonably have taken issue with these defects, in particular the lack of a signature, 
and rejected the certified copy of the LPA accordingly. However, it does not appear to have 
relied on this as a reason not to accept the certified copy of the LPA. 
Turning to the requirement to date the certifications, Mr W was correct in saying that the 
POAA doesnt require these to be dated. However, JPMT arent limited only to what the 
POAA set out and there is nothing wrong with its requirements being more stringent.
I think this is especially so given that, whilst the POAA itself doesnt require certifications to 
be dated, there is government guidance that this is what should be done. This can be seen 
at www.gov.uk/power-of-attorney/certify which states, in reference to certification, that You 
need to sign and date every page. 
In all the circumstances I am not persuaded that JPMT did anything wrong in taking issue 
with the certifications not being dated. I note that Mr W has argued that JPMT gave 
conflicting reasons as to why it couldnt accept the certified copy of the LPA. I dont think its 
reasons are conflicting but instead reflect the changing picture that JPMT was faced with. 
It first identified an issue with there being no date for the certifications fate it had seen the 
certified copy of the LPA Mr W had emailed. The lack of a date meant that it wasnt willing to 
accept the certified copy of the LPA but this wouldnt have been an issue if the certifying 
solicitor had still been in practice as it would have been able verify the certification through 
him. 
However, it couldnt do this because the certifying solicitor was no longer a practising 
solicitor. So, JPMT contacted the firm that was operating from the premises where he had 
worked to see what they could do. The outcome of its enquiries with the solicitors was that 
they were willing to provide a new certified copy of the LPA.
At the point that Mr W was made aware that the only way forward was to obtain a new 
certified copy of the LPA, on 21 September 2020, there wasnt enough time to do everything 
that was needed to take up the rights issue by the deadline of 9 October 2020  as Mr W 
pointed out.
Mr W has referred in his complaint to us about delays, non-returned calls and inaction 
leading to the rights issue deadline being missed. Given the findings I have made above, 
any delay or inaction on the part of JPMT is only relevant if it means that but for those delays and inactions Mr W would have been able to provide a new certified copy of the LPA in time 
for the rights issue to be taken up.
Looking at the events of 2020 there was a period of delay in relation to action being taken on 
the rights issue that was nothing to with JPMT, given Octopus wrote to Mrs W about the 
rights issue on 7 August 2020 but JPMT wasnt contacted until 11 September 2020. 
I appreciate that Mrs W couldnt manage her own financial affairs at this time and that Mr W 
had no way of knowing about the rights issue until he came across the letter on 5 September 
2020. There is no criticism of either of them in terms of this delay but it seems to me that it is 
relevant to consider any delay by JPMT by reference to the overall period the offer was open 
for, given the time for taking up the rights issue was already considerably foreshortened by 
the time it was first contacted - through no fault of its.
As I have said, Mr W was aware of the letter on 5 September 2020 but didnt contact JPMT 
until 11 September 2020. This is when he was told he needed to provide a certified copy of 
the LPA to sell funds on behalf of Mrs W. JPMT had no reason to think at that point that 
there might be an issue with the certified copy of the LPA. 
It was only as  a result of the subsequent discussion on 14 September 2020 that JPMT 
became aware, based on what Mr W had said on the telephone, that the certified copy of the 
LPA might not satisfy its requirements, although it still had not seen the document at this 
point so could only go on what it had been told by Mr W. 
He emailed the certified copy of the LPA to Ms G on 14 September 2020 although it wasnt 
sent to her email address but to the email address for the team that dealt with incoming 
communications as, from what JPMT said, it does not have individual email addresses for 
external use.
Mr W chased Ms G up on 15 September 2022 and was told by her that she had not yet 
received his email from the team responsible for incoming communications and this led him 
to complain, as he felt there was no good reason this had not already been sent to her. 
Ms G did then receive the email the following day being 16 September 2020 and on 
considering this JPMT then became aware that the certifications by the solicitor werent 
dated. Ms G told Mr W that she had contacted the solicitors that were operating from the 
premises of the certifying solicitor on 17 September 2020 and that they were looking into 
matters.
Ms G informed Mr W she had not heard back from the solicitors on 21 September 2020 but 
thereafter did manage to speak to them that day and following this informed then contacted 
Mr W and informed him that he needed to contact them and arrange for a new certified copy 
of the LPA.
There was further communication between Mr W and JPMT after this including him trying to 
email the head of UK Investor Services at JPMT the same day threatening to go to the 
financial press and refer a complaint to our service. However, I am not going to detail any 
further communications beyond this given on Mr Ws own case there wasnt time as at 21 
September 2020 to get a new certified copy LPA and do everything else necessary before 
the rights issue deadline.
Looking at the steps taken by JPMT as I have set out above, I am not persuaded that they 
caused any unreasonable delay. Having identified an issue with the certified copy of the LPA 
they reasonably decided to try and resolve this through the solicitors and acted quickly to do 
so in contacting them on 17 September 2020 and chasing up a response on 21 September 2020 and clarifying the position with them on that day  that being they would provide a new 
certified copy of the LPA if Mr W contacted them. 
There were only five working days between when JPMT first identified a potential issue with 
the certified copy of the LPA and it being determined that this couldnt be addressed and that 
a new certified copy of the LPA was the only way forward. 
I acknowledge that Ms G didnt get the email Mr W sent on 14 September 2020 until 16 
September 2020, which I think is due to JPMTs process requiring incoming emails to be 
sent to a central email address before being forwarded internally by the team responsible for 
this. 
It is inevitable in my view that sending an email to a central email address means the 
intended recipient wont get the email as quickly as if it was sent directly to them and also 
that this process will sometimes take longer than at other times due to such things as the 
volume of incoming emails. 
But it is for JPMT to decide how it should run its business and it isnt appropriate for me to 
comment on its decision not to provide individual email addresses for external use and to 
use a central email address for incoming email. I am not satisfied the period it took for the 
email to reach Ms G was unreasonable.
I am also mindful that the period of time that JPMT had to resolve the issue over the certified 
copy of the LPA was only five working days and it was only necessary for it try and sort 
things out because it hadnt been provided with the certified copy previously.
It isnt necessary to wait until the LPA donor has lost capacity to provide a certified copy of 
an LPA to a firm. This can be provided as soon as the certified copy is available, in this case 
this was probably 2013. So, this could have been provided to  JPMT then, or when Mrs W 
first used its services if this was later. 
Even if it was reasonable for it not to have been provided at that time  and I acknowledge 
that it isnt uncommon for a certified copy of an LPA not to be provided straightaway  I am 
mindful that Mrs W was diagnosed with Alzheimers in 2018, at which point I think it would 
certainly have been appropriate for JPMT to have been provided with the certified copy of 
the LPA. 
If this had been done at that time the shortcomings in the certified copy would likely have 
been addressed and a valid certified copy of the LPA provided then. This would have meant 
that Mr W would then have been able to proceed straightaway in 2020 without having to 
provide anything further so far as the LPA was concerned. 
There is one final issue raised by Mr W which I think I need to address  namely what he 
has said about being told that driving to Mrs Ws and getting her to telephone and authorise 
the sale of funds may not be effective because the process for lodging the certified copy of 
the LPA had already been started. 
I have not heard this in any of the telephone records I have listened to and note that JPMT 
has said it cannot find a call when Mr W was told this. However, I have taken on board what 
Mr W has said about not making this up and it seems to me more likely than not based on 
his recollection that there was some conversation which led him to think that going to Mrs 
Ws might not resolve matters. But I cannot really say any more than this given I havent 
heard what was said.
I would also make the point that if Mrs W had the capacity to give instructions for sale of the funds in the first place then there was no need for JPMT to be provided with the certified 
copy of LPA before instructions were provided to sell funds - as she could give those 
instructions regardless of whether or not JPMT had a certified copy of the LPA on file. 
I note JPMT has said that where the certified copy of an LPA has been filed it would still take 
instructions from the client. However, I dont think that is the case where it has been made 
aware that the person no longer has capacity. In that regard I note in the first call with JPMT 
on 14 September 2020 Mr W stated that Mrs W was not able to do this sort of thing 
anymore herself and in another call made a further reference to her lack of capacity. 
So, based on what he said to JPMT it isnt clear that Mrs W could properly give instructions 
for sale of the funds and this might explain any query that arose over him travelling to Mrs 
Ws as a solution to the issue over the certified copy of the LPA.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing any further information or argument they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. JPMT had nothing further to add but 
Mr W didnt agree with my provisional decision and, in short, made the following key points:
The certifier of an LPA doesnt need to be still active for a certified copy of the LPA to 
remain valid.
In this case the certifier had retired and the firm he worked for had been taken over, 
but JPMT only contacted the firm when he suggested it and had they acted sooner 
they wouldve established the certifying solicitor was well known to staff.
It is appreciated that JPMT can set its own process to minimise financial crime, but 
that process should remain reasonable at all times - balancing the potential risks 
against the needs of clients. A potentially bureaucratic process should only be 
retained if effective and JPMTs global track record of financial violations would 
suggest this isnt the case.
He provided evidence which demonstrates inconsistent application of procedures, 
unacceptable delays and inadequate communication processes which made its 
response when he was attempting to sell some of Mrs Ws funds wholly 
unreasonable.
The point he has made about contacting the OPG has been misunderstood, as what 
he was saying was that if the OPG had been promptly consulted it could have 
confirmed the LPA was registered and remained in force. His records dont show 
JPMT contacted the OPG as I have said it did and evidence should be obtained of 
this.
It is debatable whether the solicitor signed each certification stamp making it 
unreasonable to dismiss valid authentication on these grounds.
The wording of the certification complied with OPG guidelines and if this wasnt 
consistent with the POAA this shouldnt be a reason for non-acceptance.
The delay before the letter from Octopus came to light was unfortunate but outside 
the scope of the complaint which should focus on whether JPMT could reasonably be 
expected to action the request within 28 days  between 11 September 2020 and 9 
October 2020. It is beyond doubt that this should still have been ample time and had 
it acted more efficiently from the outset it would have been possible to provide a new 
certified copy of the LPA in time.By introducing a three-day delay between an email being sent by him and being 
actioned meant a further two-day weekend delay was incurred.
The discussion he had about possibly travelling to see Mrs W did more than just 
make him think this wouldnt be worthwhile, he was told this outright.
He did advise JPMT that Mrs W didnt have capacity to instruct a sale of funds but 
also volunteered that if he was with her to make the call she could speak to the agent 
and authorise him to deal on her behalf. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I comment on the points that he has made I note that Mr W identified a typographical 
error in my provisional decision where I put the wrong dates. This has no bearing on my 
findings, but I apologise for this, and he will have noted I have corrected this in the copy of 
my provisional findings set out in the background above. 
Turning to what Mr W has said, I appreciate that he is still of the view that JPMT acted 
unreasonably in relation to his attempt to sell some of Mrs Ws holdings to take up the rights 
issue with Fern by not accepting the certified copy of the LPA he provided. I am aware he 
still feels strongly that it should have accepted this and that in any event that it delayed 
matters but for which the rights issue could still have been taken up. 
I appreciate that what happened was frustrating given Mr W knew he had been appointed as 
an attorney and was simply trying to act on behalf of Mrs W in that capacity. However, JPMT 
had no way of knowing if he was acting legitimately or not which is why it is important for it to 
make sure he was someone who could act on behalf of its client. 
Mr W has provided no new evidence or information that would lead me to change the 
findings in my provisional decision. His arguments are along the same lines as previously 
put forward by him and which were considered by me in making my provisional decision. I 
will however provide some further additional comments in response to what he has said.
In my provisional decision I addressed shortcomings in the certified copy of the LPA by 
reference to the requirements of the POAA  in relation to the wording of the certifications 
and these not being signed. I did so because Mr W suggested JPMT were unreasonable for 
not accepting the certified copy because it complied with the POAA.
Mr W has now argued that the certifications were in accordance with the wording in the OPG 
guidelines and that it is debatable as to whether these were signed and that consequently 
the certified copy shouldnt be rejected on this basis. This seems some way removed from 
his suggestion that JPMT were being unreasonable because the certified copy complied with 
the requirements of the POAA but in any event I dont agree with him. 
I have considered the government website for the OPG and the wording for certifications that 
is set out is the same as in the POAA, so there is no ambiguity between the two. As for it 
being debatable that the certifications were signed, I dont agree. The certifying solicitors 
signature can be seen elsewhere in the LPA and his signature is plainly not on the 
certifications. I said in my provisional decision these might be his initials - which I note is also 
what Mr W said to JPMT in the initial call on 14 September 2020  but, as I said, this is just 
an assumption.Mr W has explained that when he was referring to JPMT contacting the OPG he meant that 
it would have confirmed that the LPA was still in force not that the certified copy of the LPA 
was valid. Either way I dont think the OPG provides a telephone checking service, and this 
probably explains why it couldnt help when JPMT contacted it. 
Mr W has questioned whether it did contact the OPG as he says this doesnt accord with his 
records. However, when he spoke to Ms G on 16 September 2016, she informed him this is 
what JPMT was going to do, and I think it is more likely than not it did so this. In any event, 
even if it didnt, it wasnt part of its process and there was no requirement on it do so. 
Mr W has argued that the certifier doesnt need to be active for a certified copy of an LPA to 
be valid. But I have already made the point that it is for a firm to decide what they will accept 
in terms of a certified copy of an LPA. Furthermore, in this case it wasnt just that the solicitor 
was retired that was an issue. It was also that JPMT was unable to verify him through online 
enquiries or otherwise. 
Mr W has suggested that employees of the solicitors firm that was currently in the premises 
the certifying solicitor had worked from could have confirmed they knew him. I have seen no 
evidence to support this but, in any event, I dont think it is reasonable to have expected 
JPMT to rely on someone from a different firm saying they knew the certifying solicitor as a 
basis for verifying him. 
And even if someone in the firm had been able to confirm they knew the certifying solicitor 
and JPMT was willing to rely on that and didnt take issue with the certifications not being 
signed, there was still no way for it to know if the certification took place when he was 
working as a solicitor - as the certifications werent dated. 
Mr W has said he provided evidence that JPMTs reasons for rejecting the certified copy of 
the LPA changed and in my provisional decision I said this reflected the changing situation. I 
think there was a potential issue with the solicitor having retired from the outset with  this 
being mentioned in the call on 14 September 2020 with JPMT then being unable to verify 
him. The issue about the date was mentioned later but I think this just added to the reasons 
why JPMT couldnt accept the certified copy.
There were in fact multiple issues with the certified copy of the LPA Mr W provided to JPMT, 
as I have already set out. 
If the certifying solicitor hadnt been retired any issues could have been addressed by JPMT 
contacting him. That avenue wasnt open to it as the solicitor was retired and JPMT couldnt 
even verify him by way of online checks  and even if it had been able to verify him, it had no 
way of knowing if he certified the copy LPA when he was a solicitor because of the lack of a 
date on the certifications. 
In the circumstances, I dont  think JPMT did anything wrong in refusing to accept 
instructions from Mr W based on the certified copy of the LPA he provided to it. 
The second issue is about the time that JPMT took. Mr W has referred to JPMT having 28 
days to deal with the request. But that is the whole period from when he first spoke to JPMT 
on 11 September 2020 to the last day for taking up the rights issue on 9 October 2020, not 
the period that JPMT had to dela with the request.
Any responsibility JPMT may have had for Mr W being unable to sell some of Mrs W funds 
and take up the rights issue is related to the period in which it was addressing the problems 
with the certified copy of the LPA. In short, the period between when a potential issue with 
the certified copy of the LPA was first identified - on 14 September 2020 - to when it confirmed the only way forward was by way of a new certified copy of the LPA - on 21 
September 2020. 
Thereafter, the only way that JPMT could accept instructions from Mr W was if it was 
provided with a new certified copy of the LPA which wasnt within its control. It was Mr Ws 
decision not to go ahead at this point, because he didnt think there was enough time to get 
the new certified copy of the LPA and for the other steps that were needed before the rights 
issue could be taken up  such as due diligence being carried out by the financial adviser.
The steps that JPMT took between 14 September 2020 and 21 September 2020 were 
reasonably taken by it in the circumstances. 
 Mr W has referred to three days being lost between him emailing the certified copy of the 
LPA to Ms G and this being received by her and actioned. However, he sent the email in the 
early afternoon on 14 September 2020, and it was received by Ms G and actioned the 
morning of 16 September 2020  so a period of less than two days. 
The delay was because JPMTs process meant emails (and other mail) were dealt with 
centrally by a team and forwarded on internally to named recipients  as I noted in my 
provisional decision. 
It was for JPMT to decide its process and as such I cant say it did anything wrong in 
choosing to use a central email address. I dont think the time between Mr W emailing and 
this being received and actioned by Ms G was necessarily unreasonable in the 
circumstances. And even if I had found that she should have received the email the previous 
day (15 September 2020) this would have made a difference of one day, at the most. There 
is no way of me knowing if this would have made any difference to the rights issue being 
taken up.  
I note what Mr W has said about being told outright that it wasnt worth travelling to Mrs Ws 
as a possible solution. As I said in my provisional decision, I accept there was some 
conversation around this but cant say what was said because I havent got the call 
recording.  
And, in any event, even if he was told it wasnt worth travelling to Mrs Ws there is no 
persuasive evidence that if he had done so this would have resolved anything. I am mindful 
that at this point JPMT were aware there was an issue about Mrs W capacity, and it hadnt 
accepted Mr W had authority to act on her behalf. In the circumstances  it would be 
surprising if JPMT would have been happy to accept his instructions simply because Mrs W 
spoke to it over the telephone.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out in my provisional decision and 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman