DRN-4063531
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr M held and account with Barclays with an overdraft facility. The account was closed with 
an outstanding balance of £2,153 in May 2021 and was the subject of a Debt Relief Order 
(DRO) which ended in July 2022. 
Mr M complained to Barclays about the service that he had received regarding information 
on his account and that the charges applied to his account were unfair as he was struggling 
financially. 
Barclays said it tried to get in touch with Mr M on a number of occasions to support him with 
his overdrawn balance and that overdraft pricing letters were sent explaining the charges 
and didnt uphold this element of his complaint. But it agreed the service he received was 
poor and apologised for this. 
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Barclays acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft fees from 1 January 2017 as Mr Ms statements 
showed that Mr M hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Our adjudicator thought Barclays should put things right by:
Re-working Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Barclays should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit file, 
it should backdate this to January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr M, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Barclays should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
They also thought Barclays should make a distress and inconvenience award of £150 to 
compensate.
Barclays agreed to settle Mr Ms complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations. 
Barclays have told us that the amount of refund due is £2,174.82 which it will offset against 
the outstanding debt and that it would pay any overpayment and interest and the 
compensation directly to Mr M.
Mr M disagreed with this and felt the full charges refund should be paid directly to him as he 
is discharged from his DRO to which the overdraft was part of and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr M raised his complaint in July 2022 in relation to bank and overdraft charges dating back 
to when his account was opened in 2006. Six years before he raised his complaint is July 
2016. And as Mr M wouldve been notified of any charges being applied to his account 
around the time they were being applied I think Mr M ought to have known enough to decide 
whether the charges Barclays applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont 
think that three years from when he ought to be reasonably aware he had reason to 
complain provides Mr M with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking 
at Mr Ms overdraft usage and the charges applied from July 2022.
I can still look into Mr Ms complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im satisfied 
the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr M has told us that 
over the years he has suffered from ill health and was vulnerable following the breakdown of 
his marriage and he is only now able to make a complaint. 
In coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mr M and Barclays and what I have to 
decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mr M wouldve prevented him from 
referring his complaint earlier had he chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything Mr M has told us about his circumstances during
the relevant period.  And I can see that despite all he was going through he was able to 
request a DSAR in February 2018 and had previously got in touch with Barclays about his 
financial difficulties in November 2020.  So although I sympathise with Mr M and his 
circumstances I cant say this prevented him from raising his complaint earlier. 
I understand why referring the complaint may not have been a priority for Mr M. But I think 
he still could have raised his complaint about the overdraft charges before he did especially 
as it only takes an email or telephone call to do so.And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at Mr 
Ms overdraft and the charges applied to it before July 2016.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Mr Ms statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that by 
January 2017 it was evident Mr M wasnt managing his overdraft in a sustainable way and 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for a number of months and his overdraft wasnt 
reducing. 
Barclays has agreed to settle Mr M complaint in-line with this finding and Mr M will be 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. I understand 
Mr M would like to be refunded all the charges directly rather than having this set off against 
the outstanding balance of his overdraft as he believes that as the account was the subject 
of a DRO that has come to an end, that this debt has now been discharged.
But although Barclays can no longer pursue Mr M for his overdraft debt, it does have the 
right to set off closely connected debts. This means Barclays can deduct from what it owes 
Mr M, money that Mr M owes it as the overdraft charges refund is connected to the same 
overdraft account on which there is an outstanding debt. And I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for Mr M to receive the funds directly when there is still an outstanding balance 
to Barclays. 
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to decide whether he now 
wishes to accept Barclayss offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman