DRN-3381448
The complaint
Mr H complains about UK Insurance Limited trading as NIG (UKI) for delays in UKI 
assessing damage caused at his property. He wants UKI to increase its offer of 
compensation to him. 
What happened
Mr H is based overseas and owns a property in the UK which he rents out. This property is 
managed by an agent in the UK.
Mr H insured his property with UKI.
In early May 2021, a pipe burst at Mr H property causing damage. A pedestal stand and tiles 
were damaged, a ceiling required redecorating, and there may have been other water 
damage.
Mr H alerted UKI on 8 May 2021.
UKI appointed its agent, W, to handle the claim. W was expected to contact Mr Hs tenants 
and arrange a video appraisal of the damage.
Mr H did not hear from UKI or W so chased up progress around mid-June. He was advised 
that W had tried on two occasions to contact Mr Hs managing agent to obtain tenant contact
details but had been unsuccessful.
Mr H then confirmed with his managing agent that tenant contact details had been provided 
to W on 13 May 2021.
UKI then took over handling of the claim and the tenants were contacted around 16 June 
2021.
Mr H submitted a complaint to UKI. Mr Hs claim has proceeded in the meantime.
UKI responded to Mr H, offering him £40, and then increasing this offer to £80 as part of 
their process.
Mr H was not happy with this and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and set out his view to the parties. This was 
that UKI and its agent had caused a delay in the claim but that the offer made by UKI was 
appropriate to resolve this. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have confirmed my understanding of the claim with the parties and have set out a view to 
them. This was that the initial assessment of the property, carried out by video, was 
unreasonably delayed by around one month and that this caused Mr H distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr H has explained that it is harder to manage issues like this from overseas and that he is 
not able to drop in to the property, or follow up progress in person as he may have done if he 
was based in the UK. He has therefore relied on updates from UKI and his managing agent 
to know what is going on. He has understandably been anxious to resolve the damage for 
his tenants and to keep their disruption to a minimum. UKIs approach has made this harder 
for him and this caused him significant inconvenience.
I indicated to the parties that I thought the compensation from UKI should be increased to 
£150 to reflect this, and UKI has agreed to offer this to Mr H. 
Mr H has accepted this offer. 
My final decision
I therefore uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG pay 
to Mr H £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman