DRN-1567847
 
The complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card.
A retailer sold the policy, but the underwriter, AXA France IARD, has accepted responsibility 
for the sale.
What happened
In November 2001, Mrs G opened a store card account with a retailer. She did not buy PPI 
at that time. The PPI was added to the account later, following a telephone call. The policy 
started in August 2002.
The policy would help repay the account if Mrs G was off work sick or lost her job. It would 
also repay the account if she died. The policy also protected goods purchased using the 
card against loss, theft or accident, and would pay the difference if the goods reduced in 
price within 60 days of the original purchase.
At the time she bought the policy, Mrs G was working, and said shed get sick pay for a year 
if she didnt work. She also said she had savings  at first, she said these savings would 
have covered at least a years pay, but when we asked for more information, she said she 
wasnt sure exactly how much savings she had but thought it would last for at least a year.
Mrs G says the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In particular, they 
thought that AXA hadnt made the costs and benefits of the policy clear enough. Given what 
Mrs G had said about her circumstances, they didnt think Mrs G would have bought the 
policy. 
AXA didnt agree. It says it doesnt think Mrs G would have got the sick pay she said she got 
 and it didnt believe she had savings. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded that AXA gave Mrs G clear enough information about the costs and 
benefits of the policy. The cost of the policy was charged to the store card based on the 
balance shown on the statement each month  so Mrs G would pay this, with interest, in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions. I havent seen anything to show AXA explained this, 
or that Mrs G would need to continue paying for the premiums if she needed to claim. And 
given the policy cost around £1 for every £100 on the statement balance, its possible these 
amounts could have been significant.
So Ive thought about whether Mrs G would have gone on to buy the policy. 
Mrs G initially told us shed be paid for 12 months if she was off work sick. She also told us 
she had savings that would cover her salary for a year. But AXA says it believes, based on 
what Mrs G said, that shed get her full salary for five months and then receive half pay for a 
further five months.
Ive thought about this. 
Mrs G has now told us that, although shed only been in her role for a few years, shed been 
with the same employer for ten years. Given the industry she was working in, I think its 
plausible that she would receive her full salary for the first six months of any sickness, and I 
think its likely she would have received half her salary for the remaining six months.
Ive also thought about Mrs Gs savings. Mrs G says she cant now say exactly how much 
she had in savings  except shes sure she had enough put aside in a savings account to 
cover her important expenses for at least three months if she couldnt work. I dont think its 
unreasonable that Mrs G cant now provide precise figure for how much she had in savings. I 
find what she says plausible and persuasive, and I dont have any reason to doubt what she 
says.
So while I appreciate the benefits of this policy were relatively generous compared to other 
products available on the market at the time, I think that if AXA had explained the costs and 
benefits of the policy, Mrs G would have questioned the value of the policy. I dont think Mrs 
G would have bought the policy and think shes lost out. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs G in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs G would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs G owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs G would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs G would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs G 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs G 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should 8% a year.D. AXA should tell Mrs G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman