DRN-3265851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their 
travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H took out a comprehensive and annual multi-trip policy
which is underwritten by Great Lakes. Cover commenced on 6 March 2020 and ended on 5
March 2021. They paid an additional premium for Travel Disruption Cover of £73.30 and
their policy cost in total £184.01 (including insurance premium tax). Cover was for Mr and
Mrs H and their two children.
Mr and Mrs H had booked various trips over the year, which were cancelled by the flight and
accommodation providers, and for which they have also been refunded. Theres one
remaining cancellation refund which they havent received. So, they submitted a claim for
this to Great Lakes.
They booked two consecutive weeks in two separate villas for August 2020. They have
received a refund for one of those through their credit card provider but the other has been
refused by the accommodation provider. Dates of stay for the villa which they didnt receive
a refund for were between 22 August to 29 August 2020. Mr and Mrs H say their flights were
cancelled and they therefore could not travel to their destination as the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel at the time.
On 29 July 2020, Mr and Mrs H informed the provider their flights had been cancelled and
they werent able to travel. On the same day, the provider offered Mr and Mrs H an offer to
rebook the villa at a future date. The offer of a future booking was limited to the same week
in the following year of August 2021. They informed the provider they didnt consider this to
be a reimbursement or compensation. As a result, Mr and Mrs H decided not to rebook the
accommodation in 2021 and, shortly after, submitted a claim to Great Lakes. They say
theyve suffered a financial loss as they didnt receive a refund from the accommodation 
provider.
Great Lakes assessed the claim but declined it because it says the cost of the
accommodation was recoverable on the basis that an offer of a future booking in 2021 was
provided. It said Mr and Mrs H therefore didnt have cover for this under the policy terms and
conditions.
Unhappy with Great Lakes decision to decline, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this
service. Our investigator looked into it. He didnt uphold the complaint because he thought
the voucher offered by the accommodation provider was fair in the circumstances and
comparable. He said while Mr and Mrs H were concerned that they might not have been
able to take time off in the following year, they had a year to decide and they also had plenty
of opportunity to book the time off. He thought the cost of the accommodation was
recoverable and therefore didnt think the claim was declined unfairly by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its 
therefore been passed to me.
Mr and Mrs H provided a comprehensive response to the investigator. Ive summarised their 
response as follows:
Their circumstances were clearly covered under the terms of the relevant policy;
The offer of a stay in a specific week in August 2021 is a substitute, it is not, by 
definition, regaining or retrieving that which was lost. In applying the definition of 
recoverable in the Oxford English Dictionary there are only two possibilities in terms 
of that which was lost. We have either lost 2,200 euros or the opportunity to stay at 
the villa in August 2020. The only thing that is capable of being regained or retrieved 
in their circumstances is 2,200 euros. Great Lakes Insurance was not therefore 
entitled to rely on Clause 14 as an exemption to cover what they had specifically 
purchased to cover their circumstances;
The focus of the investigators assessment was on whether he considered the offer 
made by the accommodation provider to be fair and comparable. They consider this 
focus to be wrong. They believe the issue in determining their claim should have 
been whether their circumstances were covered by their policy and, if so, whether 
any exemption applied. If, as our Initial Decision emphasises the industry rules are 
relevant, then their clear guidance in respect of whether the offer of a voucher is in 
fact fair and reasonable must be highly relevant. They are clear that such practice is 
not fair and yet we have chosen to ignore this; and
The rationale as to why we consider the offer made by the accommodation provider 
to be a fair one appears, at least in part, to once again focus on their ability to take 
annual leave. When they could not travel to their destination country in August 2020 
and the offer was made to them by the accommodation provider, they were not 
focussed on booking a trip abroad the following year. Given the difficulties they faced 
in arranging leave which they have previously referred to, they would suggest that 
our view on this point is wholly unfair and unreasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2021 to both parties. I said the following:
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant regulators rules
say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims
unreasonably.
Ive considered, amongst other things, both Mr and Mrs Hs and Great Lakes submissions,
their travel policy wording, the legislative and regulatory framework, the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), the Competition
and Market Authority (CMA) guidance and additional FCA guidance, in particular the FCAs
April 2021 Finalised Guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights
and routes to refunds (the Guidance), and good industry practice.
Additionally, I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about how the claim has been
assessed. I can also see theyve taken the time to provide comprehensive information to us.
So, Id like to reassure them while I wont be responding to each and every point, I have read
all their submissions.
Having looked at whats happened, the key issue I need to decide is whether Great Lakes
has considered the claim in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and
whether in doing so, theyve have been treated fairly and reasonably.Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy and whether there was an
insured event and therefore whether a claim could be made. Mr and Mrs H also paid for
Travel Disruption Cover which I have taken into account.
Was the claim covered under the cancellation section of the policy?
From 27 July 2020, the FCO advised against all non-essential travel to the country Mr and
Mrs H had planned to go to. This advice was based on the increases in cases of Covid-19 in
that country.
From the information provided by Mr and Mrs H, I can see they cancelled their 
accommodation because of the FCO advice. Its understandable therefore that as Mr and
Mrs H werent able to travel, they contacted their accommodation provider on 29 July 2020
to cancel their booking.
Under Section 14 Optional Travel Disruption Extension, the policy sets out what is covered
for cancellation:
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have
purchased the optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for
Comprehensive cover per insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are
contracted to pay, plus any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if you 
were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or the trip was cut short 
before completion as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to.
Looking at the above policy term, Mr and Mrs H have scope for cover because they
cancelled their accommodation as the FCO advised all but essential travel. But theres a 
proviso that those costs have to be irrecoverable.
The policy document then refers to some General Conditions which apply to all 
sections of the policy. Under the General Conditions section on page 39, it states 
that:
21. We will not pay for any costs which are recoverable elsewhere.
Looking at the above sections, its clear that the event that caused Mr and Mrs H to cancel
their holiday was the advice given by the FCO. So there is scope for cover for cancelling 
their holiday for this reason. However, its clear in both sections any costs that are
recoverable elsewhere are not covered under the policy.
I will go on to consider whether the cost of the cancelled accommodation is one that is
recoverable.
Should the claim be settled?
The circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs claim are that when they contacted their 
accommodation provider, they received a reply almost immediately and were offered to
rebook the villa in August 2021 the following year, but only the week of 21 August to 28
August 2021. They were provided with a window of the one week only. As far as I can see,there was no other alternative offered at this point and there was no refund available in
monetary form. Mr and Mrs H decided not to take up this offer as they felt there was
uncertainty surrounding travel and they couldnt be sure how things would unfold over the
year. So, they didnt attempt to rebook for the following year and instead submitted a claim to
Great Lakes.
I understand the reasons why Mr and Mrs H might have decided to take the option of
submitting a claim. They felt they had the cover available and this was an option they wanted
to take.
I refer to the FCAs guidance in relation to cancellations and refunds: Annex 1 Temporary
guidance for firms when dealing with consumers looking to request a refund following a
cancellation of services. This states:
1.5 Insurance firms should:
Treat their customers fairly and consider what is in the consumers interest.
Some insurers will require policyholders making a claim to demonstrate that they
have suffered, or have taken reasonable steps to mitigate, a financial loss. This could 
include insurers asking consumers to first seek refunds from other sources where there 
is a liability to return funds, such as from a travel provider or under a section 75 claim 
from a card provider, before considering the claim. Some policies may make specific 
provisions for what a policyholder will need to do. We consider that the steps required of 
policyholders should not be unreasonable.
Ive considered carefully whats happened and in the context of Mr and Mrs Hs claim. They
received a limited offer from their accommodation provider which restricted them to the one
week. In such situations, wed expect consumers to further scope out whether there were
any other possibilities to rebook the accommodation if that one week wasnt an option for
them. Wed expect Mr and Mrs H to have gone back to the provider and explained that the
future booking limited them in terms of being able to book that time off work and limited them
to just the one week  or ask for an extension of the voucher. 
Wed also expect to see evidence of the communication between them and the provider to 
show further steps had been taken to mitigate their loss. I dont think taking these steps 
would be unreasonable. The initial obligation lies with the accommodation provider to 
provide an alternative option that was not so restrictive to Mr and Mrs H. I dont think Mr and 
Mrs H have provided enough evidence, in the circumstances theyve presented here. We 
dont have evidence of whether the provider was amenable to further options or requests 
made by Mr and Mrs H. This means, from the information available, Im not satisfied Mr and 
Mrs H took all reasonable steps to mitigate their loss.
I acknowledge that they didnt want to pursue making a future booking and only wanted a
monetary refund. But because they hadnt taken those steps, Im not persuaded that the loss 
wasnt recoverable. From what I can see, the provider responded promptly to their 
communication with Mr and Mrs H but theres no evidence to suggest they refused to
provide alternative options or stopped communicating with them altogether.
I note the investigator focused on whether the offer for the future booking itself was fair. But
while I can see it was limiting, the crux of the complaint is that we are faced with a policy
term which says Mr and Mrs Hs claim is not covered if the cost is recoverable elsewhere. Mr
and Mrs H would need to show the cost wasnt recoverable despite all their efforts and Im
not persuaded they have done enough to show this. Instead they decided to submit a claim
to Great Lakes.Where an accommodation providers offer period has expired our general approach is that
we think its reasonable for a policyholder to provide evidence that theyve asked the
provider whether they are prepared to extend the offer. The issue is that for me to
reasonably say that Great Lakes should reconsider the claim as an irrecoverable loss I need
to be satisfied that the costs are irrecoverable. If Mr and Mrs H had contacted the provider to
ask if they would extend its offer period, as I think it would have been reasonable for them to
do, the provider may have refused or failed to reply to a reasonable number of requests from
them. If there had been such evidence, I would have been likely to tell Great Lakes to
reconsider the claim as an irrecoverable loss. As there is no such evidence, I dont think its
fair and reasonable for me to say Great Lakes should reconsider the claim as an 
irrecoverable loss and I dont intend to uphold the complaint.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs comment that the offer of a stay in a specific week in August
2021 was a substitute. I agree and had they requested an alternative offer and had
subsequently been refused or not been responded to, the issue would have been different.
While I can see they are currently out of pocket and understand this is difficult to bear, that
doesnt mean that Great Lakes should now reconsider the claim. Mr and Mrs H have a travel
policy and a contract for which they have paid a premium  in return for certain risks to be
insured. Unfortunately, the scenario thats presented itself and the individual circumstances
of this case means they have no cover as the cost was shown to be recoverable and Im
satisfied its not unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim.
In response to my provisional decision, both parties responded.
Great Lakes responded and said it had no further comments.
Mr and Mrs H responded. They provided additional information which they believe
demonstrates that they explored alternative options at the time. They have sent us the email
communication between themselves and the accommodation provider between April 2020
and July 2020. Ive summarised these as follows:
29 April 2020  email from accommodation provider to Mr and Mrs H  informing Mr 
and Mrs H that they will not be able to come to their villa due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. They can change their booking for the same week the following year and 
they will then not lose their deposit of 25% that theyd paid;
29 April 2020  email from Mr and Mrs H to provider  they wanted to find out what 
availability they had for July and August in 2021;
29 April 2020 - email from provider to Mr and Mrs H  informing them that 24 July to 
31 July 2021 and 21 August to 4 September 2021 were available weeks;
22 May 2020  email from Mr and Mrs H to provider  they are finding it difficult to 
make any decisions regarding their planned trip. The airline they were booked with 
said they will be recommencing flights to their destination from 1 July 2020. They 
were staying at a different villa the previous week and they had paid in full to the 
company they booked with for that villa;
26 June 2020  email from provider to Mr and Mrs H  informing them that borders 
were going to open from 1 July 2020 and it therefore couldnt provide a refund or 
change the dates of their reservation and they were ready to receive guests. The 
provider also said the balance of the payment needed to be made by 18 July 2020;
3 July 2020  email from Mr and Mrs H to provider  requesting the amount they 
need to pay for the balance outstanding;
8 July 2020  email from provider to Mr and Mrs H  confirms amount outstanding is 
1,650 euros and needs to reach their account latest by 11 July 2020;29 July 2020  email from Mr and Mrs H to provider  informing them that UK 
government was now advising against all but essential travel. They confirmed their 
flight was cancelled and they were not able to travel to the destination as they had 
intended to. They asked what options they had cin terms of receiving a refund;
29 July 2020  email from provider to Mr and Mrs H  offered to reserve one week 
from 21 August to 28 August 2021;
4 January 2022  email from Mr and Mrs H to provider  asking whether there is any 
option of transferring their booking for a future date;
4 January 2022  email from provider to Mr and Mrs H  informing them there is no 
such option available as theyre not taking any bookings at all. They live at the 
accommodation and didnt want to take any risks.
Mr and Mrs H have also said the accommodation provider is an individual and not a 
company and payment was made to the individuals bank account.
Following the responses that I received, I issued a second provisional decision on 13 
January 2022 based on the additional information. I said I was intending to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
I said the following:
Is the claim covered by the terms and conditions of the policy?
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy in regard to cancellation state the
following:
Under Section 14 Optional Travel Disruption Extension, the policy sets out what is covered
for cancellation:
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have
purchased the optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for
Comprehensive cover per insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and
accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are
contracted to pay, plus any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if you 
were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation or the trip was cut short 
before completion as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to.
Theres no dispute that at the time Mr and Mrs H were due to travel there was FCO advice
against all but essential travel. Therefore, its also clear they had cover under their policy.
The issue in dispute is whether the cost of the accommodation was recoverable.
Should the claim be settled?
Mr and Mrs H were offered the option of reserving one week the following year from 21
August to 28 August 2021. They were not given any further options and the most recent
communication shows that the accommodation provider now lives at the villa themselves
and no further bookings are being taken. Its also likely that same arrangement has been in
place as Mr and Mrs H have said they couldnt see any further weeks available except the
one that was offered to them.Generally, unless the terms of the offer are unreasonably restrictive and/or the consumer
has exceptional circumstances, Id consider the option to book at a future date to mean the
policyholder has recovered their costs from elsewhere.
However, in this case, Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence to show they only had the 
option to book one week from the summer of 2021. This therefore was particularly limiting.
Additionally, Mr and Mrs H said they had practical difficulties booking leave due to the nature 
of their roles and had it was challenging to book one specific week as that was all that was
offered to them. They also explained they had just had a holiday cancelled and therefore
focus was not to rebook as travel abroad remained uncertain up to and including the week
that was offered for reservation. I also cant see that the offer was transferrable or had any
expiry date. The accommodation provider was an individual and the payment was
transferred directly to the individual. Its not likely that Mr and Mrs H will be able to recover
their loss from the provider.
The email communication which Mr and Mrs H have provided to us in their latest
submissions shows their intention was always to travel and it also shows the situation was
continually changing over 2020. I can see they made efforts to see if there was an option
where they could have travelled to their intended destination on an alternative date.
Taking everything into account and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it
was reasonable for Great Lakes to consider the offer of the one particular week from the
provider as meaning Mr and Mrs H had recovered their costs from elsewhere.
In any event, Im also satisfied, from what theyve told us in their submissions, that its highly
unlikely Mr and Mrs H will ever be able to book the villa in the way it was intended.
The offer of the one particular week is not transferable, which makes it restrictive. I
think therefore the terms they were offered are restrictive and, that, alongside the information
they provided showing the communication they had with the accommodation provider,
means I think on balance, its unlikely theyll ever be able to stay there in the foreseeable
future.
I can also see theyve taken all reasonable steps to mitigate their other losses and
recovered those from the relevant providers. Additionally, Ive considered their 
circumstances at the time which meant they werent always able to specify the week they 
wanted to travel in their jobs and that they would always have been limited to the school
holidays because of their school age children. So, while this doesnt make a difference in
terms of whether the claim ought to be settled overall, this was still an issue and from
the latest information supplied from the accommodation provider, its clear they will not be
able to use the villa as the individual now lives there and is no longer renting the villa. This
adds further valid reasons as to why Im not persuaded the cost of the villa can be recovered
by Mr and Mrs H.
Conclusion
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great
Lakes to accept Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation claim. Im not persuaded that the claim has
been declined fairly as the offer they received from the accommodation provider is restrictive
and I dont think the cost is recoverable. My provisional decision is that Great Lakes should
pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim, together with interest, and subject to any applicable policy
excesses and/or limits.
In response to my provisional decision of 13 January 2022, both parties have replied. Mr and Mrs H said they have nothing further to add. 
Great Lakes said it accepts my provisional decision and awaits acceptance from Mr and Mrs 
H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the above responses from both Mr and Mrs H and Great Lakes, I see no reason to 
depart from what Ive said in my provisional decision of 13 January 2022. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes declined the claim unfairly and I think it would be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances for it to accept Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation claim. 
Great Lakes should now pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim, together with 8% simple interest and 
subject to any policy excesses and/or limits.
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right and do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation claim, subject to any applicable policy excesses 
and/or limits, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim until the date the settlement is paid; and
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman