DRN-2353850
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer, should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a policy Mrs B took out with a store card in December 1999. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and she has asked for a review. Mrs B told us that she didnt recall seeing anything 
mentioned about PPI on the application form. And she mainly said that her employment 
benefits, health circumstances, savings and family support meant PPI was unsuitable for her 
and it should not have been applied to the account.
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
What Mrs B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to 
look at all the information available and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Bs store card application. Mrs B has signed in the PPI part 
of the form, next to where it says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and 
Purchase Protection Insurance Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. 
I think its reasonable to expect Mrs B wouldve first read through anything she was asked to 
sign. And I can see that she didnt choose to sign up for another optional feature offered with 
the store card she was applying for. 
So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs B to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs B signed the completed application so it seems to me that she must have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time. 
On balance, I think that Mrs B was aware she was signing up for PPI, she understood the 
policy was optional and it was added to her account when she indicated that she wanted to 
take it out. 
AXA shouldve given Mrs B enough clear information to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
The policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs B was off work sick or if Mrs B lost her 
job unexpectedly and was out of work. (It also offered other cover which was limited to the 
first 12 months but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part of the policy. So I have 
ignored this extra benefit when deciding whether to uphold the complaint that PPI was mis-
sold).
In the event of a successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance if Mrs B 
wasnt able to go back to work. 
I've taken into account that Mrs B mentioned being able to rely on her employer paying her 
sick pay for 6 months  with the possibility of a further 6 months discretionary sick pay. But 
Im looking at Mrs Bs contractual entitlement  because thats all she could safely rely on 
when she took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it doesn't have to 
isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees a monthly benefit in the event of a 
successful claim. 
And although she also mentioned having savings, I dont know if Mrs B wouldve always had 
savings to rely on if she wasnt able to work and needed to make a claim on the policy.  
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. 
Its possible AXA didnt explain some things about the policy as clearly as it shouldve done. 
Ive thought carefully about the information Mrs B told us about her health around the time 
she took out this PPI. Mrs B mightnt have been covered for a medical condition she had 
when she took out the policy. And Mrs B had previously been monitored in hospital for a 
health problem. But looking at the notes from her doctor, it seems that the health problems 
shed had around a year or so earlier had not led to any significant continuing health 
problems for Mrs B. And her circumstances at the time she was unwell were different. 
So I dont think Mrs B wouldve had any particular reason to think when she took out the PPI 
that she would be likely to need to take time off work as a result of the health condition shed 
had a year ago. 
And it doesnt look as if Mrs B was affected by any of the other things the policy didnt cover. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
put Mrs B off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs B clear enough information about the costs of the 
policy. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application form that she was happy to 
pay to have it. Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
So this means Mrs B hasnt lost out as a result of anything AXA did wrong. So it doesnt 
need to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments, including what shes said about the way other PPI 
claims she made were dealt with. But I am concerned here just with her complaint about the 
PPI sold with this store card and what happened on other cases doesnt change my 
conclusion here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman