DRN-3469502
The complaint
Miss H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (ELL) lent to 
her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Miss H was given a loan by ELL in March 2021. She borrowed £5,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. A balance remained outstanding on the 
loan when Miss H made her complaint.
ELL gathered some information from Miss H before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income, and her normal housing costs. It then used some industry 
statistical data to estimate the remainder of Miss Hs normal expenditure. It checked 
her credit file to see how much she was paying to other creditors, and how she had 
managed credit in the past. And ELL looked at Miss Hs bank statements to verify the 
information she had provided about her finances.
Miss H was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that ELL 
wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about 
Miss Hs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the 
checks Ive described above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that ELLs 
checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
As I said earlier ELL used some statistical data to estimate Miss Hs normal 
expenditure. That isnt an unreasonable approach to take here, when it appeared to 
ELL that there was nothing unusual about Miss Hs circumstances that might mean 
she didnt fit the average profiles used in the estimates.
But ELL also had access to Miss Hs bank statements so it could see in more detail 
how she was spending her money. From those statements it seems she was 
responsible for a monthly rental payment, and two utility bills that were paid by direct 
debit. Miss H had told
 
ELL that she had a partner so it wouldnt seem unusual that she only paid some of 
the normal bills of a household. Miss Hs bank statement didnt suggest that her 
normal living costs were higher than those estimated by ELL.
The credit check showed that Miss H had three active credit accounts. She had an 
overdraft on her bank account and two credit cards. None of those accounts showed 
any issues with their repayments and both of the credit card accounts were well 
below their agreed limits.
But I think one of the credit card accounts should reasonably have caused some 
concern to ELL. The account had only been opened a couple of months earlier, and 
already had an outstanding balance of £3,650. But I can see that ELL discussed that 
account with Miss H and she explained that she had used the card to pay for a 
forthcoming honeymoon. That tied in with the reason Miss H gave for requesting the 
loan  to help pay for her wedding. So on balance I dont think there was anything on 
the credit check results that should have caused ELL to conclude Miss H was facing 
problems managing her money.
When it assessed the affordability of the loan ELL allowed for repayments of the 
outstanding credit card balances to be made at a rate of 3% per month. In my 
experience that is generally the minimum contractual repayment that needs to be 
made. But I can see from Miss Hs bank statements that she was usually making 
higher repayments each month. I think that might reasonably lead to the conclusion 
that Miss H had some disposable income each month that she could divert from her 
credit card repayments towards repaying ELLs loan. Whilst that might mean her 
credit card balances took longer to repay, I dont think it would be an unreasonable 
approach for ELL to think she might take.
Miss Hs bank statements didnt show any other signs that her finances were under 
undue pressure. Her overdraft fluctuated during the month, with her account often 
returning into credit after she had been paid. Overall she generally stayed within the 
overdraft limit and there was no evidence of any payments being returned unpaid.
Although I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Miss H, I dont currently 
think that ELL was wrong to conclude that she would be able to repay the borrowing 
in a sustainable manner. Its proportionate checks hadnt shown any indications that 
Miss H might be struggling with her finances. I understand that Miss Hs 
circumstances changed after she took out the loan and that has caused her some 
difficulties meeting her repayments. But I dont think any of the changes were 
reasonably foreseeable by Miss H, or ELL. I dont currently think this complaint 
should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ELL has said that it agrees with my provisional findings. Miss H hasnt 
provided us with anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that neither party has provided me with any new comments or evidence, I see no 
reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So, I dont think that 
ELL was wrong to conclude that Miss H would be able to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable manner. Its proportionate checks hadnt shown any indications that Miss H might 
be struggling with her finances. I understand that Miss Hs circumstances changed after she 
took out the loan and that has caused her some difficulties meeting her repayments. But 
I dont think any of the changes were reasonably foreseeable by Miss H, or ELL. I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman