DRN-3467800
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain Aviva Insurance Limited treated them unfairly following a claim 
against their property owners insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr B and Mrs Bs property portfolio is insured with Aviva. In summary, in 2017 they raised a 
claim for a collapsed wall that caused damage. Aviva assessed it, but declined it, and said it 
was caused gradually and due to wear and tear. They also said Mr B and Mrs B didnt hold 
accidental damage for the property where the porch was damaged by the incident, so the 
policy wouldnt respond. 
Mr B and Mrs B werent happy. They say theyve held insurance with Aviva for many years 
and all their properties  including the property they reside in  has accidental damage 
cover. 
Mr B and Mrs B raised complaints with Aviva and their broker. They say accidental damage 
cover should have been included within their policy, they werent happy with the premiums 
theyve been charged, or direct debit fees on these premiums, amongst other things. 
Aviva responded to the complaint maintaining their position on the claim and didnt think Mr 
B and Mrs B were due a refund of any premiums. They did, however, refund the direct debit 
charges Mr B and Mrs B incurred and included 8% interest. 
Mr B and Mrs B remained unhappy and approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She looked at Mr B and Mrs Bs 
policy and didnt think it included accidental damage. And in any event, she thought Aviva 
had demonstrated the main cause of damage happened gradually and due to wear and tear. 
She also didnt think Aviva had treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly with regards to the premiums 
they charged, but noted they had already offered to refund the direct debit charges Mr B and 
Mrs B paid, plus interest, which she thought was reasonable. 
Mr B and Mrs B asked for an ombudsman to decide, so its now with me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B and Mrs B have made many points in relation to this matter, Ive not addressed each 
point. Were an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be the pertinent points. 
I must explain in my decision Ill only be deciding on the issues Mr B and Mrs B have raised 
in relation to the claim they submitted to Aviva, the premiums charged, and the direct debit 
charges that have been refunded, with interest. Mr B thinks Aviva should have included 
compound interest due to the costs hes incurred on a credit card to cover repair works, 
amongst other things. I wont be considering the sale of the policy given Aviva didnt sell it. 
The claim 
I understand Mr B and Mrs B strongly feel they held an All-risks policy with Aviva. This 
generally includes accidental damage cover. They say they made a successful accidental 
damage claim in the past, and thought this cover was included across their portfolio. So, I 
can understand why they were shocked to find no accidental damage cover was showing on 
the 2017 policy schedule  other than on their residing address  when they claimed. 
A renewal of a contract of insurance is effectively a new contract. Even where a policyholder 
has used a broker to purchase a policy, the onus is still on the policyholder to check the 
documents to ensure cover is suitable and correct. In fact, the 2017 policy schedule 
highlights this. 
Ive looked at the 2017 policy schedule because thats the relevant policy year in respect of 
the claim. Like our investigator, Ive found it only includes accidental damage cover for Mr B 
and Mrs Bs residing address  not the other properties in question relating to this claim. 
So, with that in mind, the policy shouldnt have responded to Mr B and Mrs Bs accidental 
damage claim, because this wasnt part of the policy coverage in respect of the claim. That 
was Avivas role here  to assess the claim in line with the policy coverage and terms  
which I think they did reasonably. 
In any event, I think even if all properties associated with the claim were covered for 
accidental damage, Im satisfied Aviva has reasonably shown that damage most likely 
occurred gradually and due to wear and tear. So, I wont be requiring Aviva to do anything 
further in respect of the claim. I understand Mr B and Mrs B are querying whether another 
section of their policy should respond to the claim  which I havent commented on  
because thats still being considered. 
Mr B also argued the tree on his property (that held accidental damage cover) likely caused 
the damage to start with and should cover the accidental damage in its entirety. But thats 
not the case, an insured property must include accidental damage cover for the policy to 
respond to any damage caused under this section. 
The direct debit charges and premiums paid 
Aviva refunded the direct debit charges back to Mr B and Mrs B, plus interest, because 
these werent made clear. Whilst this has been paid now, Mr B thinks Aviva should include 
compound interest to account for the monies spent on a credit card to pay for the costs 
associated with the damage he claimed for, amongst other things. But these costs arent 
associated with the direct debit charges, so I wont be requiring Aviva to do anything else in 
this respect. 
Finally, I understand why Mr B and Mrs B think theyve been overcharged. They say they 
had All-risks cover, but now accidental damage cover isnt included to all properties, theyve 
been charged significantly more for a lesser policy. They also say, amongst other things, 
their premiums were much higher than those being offered by other insurers. 
Aviva responded to say at each renewal, a policyholder is invited to challenge premiums and 
the responsibility of a broker is to provide appropriate cover at a competitive price. They also say Mr B and Mrs Bs broker confirmed they were unable to source cheaper cover with other 
insurers they have access to. As Im not considering the sale or actions of Mr B and Mrs Bs 
broker in this complaint, I wont make comment. 
It's for an insurer to decide how they price policies. Ive also gone on to consider the history 
of the premiums, and I cant see evidence that shows Aviva treated Mr B and Mrs B unfairly 
here. Aviva says no additional loadings were applied at renewal  rather, these were 
standard renewal increases  which Mr B and Mrs B accepted each year. 
I dont find Mr B and Mrs B are due a refund of any premiums paid because Im not 
persuaded based on the evidence Ive seen that they were treated unfairly. 
Summary 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr B and Mrs B. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve their dispute with Aviva  can do for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman