DRN-2309315
The complaint
Ms G complains that Scottish Widows didnt tell her that her pension pot had reduced in 
value when it discussed her pension options with her.
In order to put matters right Ms G says she wants Scottish Widows to pay her the difference 
between the quotation it sent her and the actual amount of tax free cash and annuity income 
she will receive.
What happened
In late February 2020 Ms G contacted Scottish Widows to discuss taking her pension 
benefits from a pension pot she held with it. A quotation was arranged and a telephone 
meeting was set up for 10 March 2020 to discuss Ms Gs pension options.
Scottish Widows wrote to Ms G on 10 March 2020 following the telephone meeting. It said:
Your existing policy value as at 27 February 2020 is £57,440.79. Having considered your 
options youd like to take tax free cash from your existing policy and use the rest to take a 
guaranteed income (annuity).
Please note the values contained in this letter are not guaranteed.
In a letter to this service Ms G confirmed that she received this letter. She went on to say: 
However, one week later [the country Ms G was living in] went into lockdown due to Covid 
19, followed a week later by the UK. On March 25th I phoned Scottish Widows as I was 
concerned about whether these events would change the value of my pension and annuity 
payments. I was informed that the adviser who contacted me on the 10th March had not 
followed procedure, by not looking up the current value of the policy on that day, and it had 
in fact fallen in value between 27th February and 10th March by some £5,000.
During the call on 25 March 2020 Scottish Widows confirmed that Ms Gs request to take the 
benefits from her pension was still being processed. The representative explained that the 
valuation that would be used to calculate Ms Gs tax free cash and annuity would be the 
value of her pension pot on 10 March 2020  the day Ms G had confirmed that she wanted 
to take the benefits from this pension pot. 
She said the value of Ms Gs pension pot on 10 March 2020 was £52,670.88. Despite having 
been made aware of the reduction in the value of her pension pot Ms G went ahead with her 
request to take her pension benefits. She also asked Scottish Widows to investigate why the 
adviser she spoke to on 10 March 2020 hadnt given her an up-to-date valuation when 
discussing her pension options.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint. It explained that the previous valuations 
Ms G had received, and the valuation set out in its letter in March 2020, were not 
guaranteed, and it noted that its letter had explained this. It reiterated that the final value of 
her pension pot was calculated using the pricing on the day all its requirements had been 
met, and it had confirmation from Ms G that she wanted to go ahead. 
Ms G wasnt satisfied with this response from Scottish Widows and brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into Ms Gs complaint. Having done so he said he didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. 
He explained that the value of Ms Gs pension pot wasnt guaranteed. He noted that this was 
confirmed in the documents Scottish Widows sent to Ms G and the phone calls its 
representatives had with Ms G prior to Ms G making her decision to take her pension 
benefits.
He noted that Ms G felt that if Scottish Widows had provided an up-to-date valuation on 10 
March 2020 when she spoke its representative, she would not have taken her pension 
benefits at that time as she would have realised that her pension pot had fallen in value by 
around £4,700.
Our investigator said that having listened to the calls Ms G had with Scottish Widows he 
noted that in the call on 25 March the representative said that Ms G should have been given 
an up-to-date valuation on 10 March when it discussed Ms Gs pension options.
However, having carefully considered this complaint our investigator said he thought Ms G 
would, on the balance of probabilities, still have taken her pension benefits even if she had 
been given an up-to-date valuation when she discussed her pension options with Scottish 
Widows on 10 March 2020. In particular, he noted that when Ms G was given the valuation 
her tax free cash and annuity would be based - during the call on 25 March 2020 - the 
representative confirmed that Ms Gs request to take her benefits hadnt been processed. In 
view of this our investigator said he felt Ms G could have decided not to go ahead if she was 
unhappy with the lower valuation.
Ms G didnt accept our investigators view. She said that she accepted that Scottish Widows 
had explained that these values were not set in stone and could go up or down. But Ms G 
said that when the value of her pension pot was discussed during the call on 10 March 2020 
she decided to go ahead as:
The figures discussed on the 10th were the same as we had discussed 2 weeks 
previously.
She said it was only when she phoned Scottish Widows on 25 March 2020 as I was 
concerned that if my pension hadn't been ring fenced on the 10th the values would be 
affected by events surrounding Covid 19. It was during this call that I was informed that the 
values had already fallen before the 10th March, by some 8%, but that I had not been given 
this information during the phone call. I would not have drawn on this pension if I had been 
given the correct values on the 10th.
Ms G went on to say that by the 25th I realised that Covid 19 was going to have a further 
negative effect on values and so I felt the only option was to take the reduced amount. This 
was with the knowledge that most of the world had gone into lockdown by this point.
The crux of this matter is timing. On the 10th March, Covid 19 was a vague and distant 
threat. If I had been informed of the correct value of my pension I would not have connected 
it's falling value with Covid 19. Instead I would have assumed that it was some other market 
forces at work and would have postponed drawing on the pension assuming that within a 
year or so it would return to its previous value.
Our investigator considered the points Ms G had made but said he was not minded to 
change his view.Ms G responded reiterating her view that if she had been given an up-to-date valuation on 
10 March 2020, she would not have taken her pension benefits at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have very carefully considered everything Ms G has said about this matter and I have also 
listened to the call recordings of the conversations Ms G had with Scottish Widows. 
It is not in dispute that it would have been helpful if Scottish Widows had used an up-to-date 
valuation when it discussed Ms Gs pension options on 10 March 2020. What is in dispute is 
whether Ms G would still have taken her pension benefits if she had been aware that the 
value of her pension pot had fallen by around £4,700 between 27 February and 10 March 
2020. 
Ms G says that if, during the call on 10 March 2020, she had been told that the value of her 
pension pot had fallen she would not have taken her pension benefits at that time. I 
appreciate the points Ms G has made and I am mindful of her comments that:
The crux of this matter is timing. On the 10th March, Covid 19 was a vague and distant 
threat. If I had been informed of the correct value of my pension I would not have connected 
it's falling value with Covid 19. Instead I would have assumed that it was some other market 
forces at work and would have postponed drawing on the pension assuming that within a 
year or so it would return to its previous value.
But I must take into account that Ms Gs recollection isnt an accurate reflection of what was 
happening in the financial markets at that time.
On 28 February 2020 the FTSE 100 closed at 6580 this was over 1000 points lower than it 
had been in mid-January 2020. In view of this I dont think it correct to say that on the 10th 
March, Covid 19 was a vague and distant threat. I think the financial markets were already 
pricing in concerns about the impact of COVID-19 on the economy from late-January 
onwards and this was reflected in the fall of the FTSE 100.
On 10 March 2020 the FTSE 100 closed at 5960 and continued to fall until 23 March 2020 
when it went below 5000 points. 
I appreciate that Ms G wasnt invested in a FTSE 100 tracker fund, but I have used the 
FTSE 100 index to provide an indication of movements in the financial markets in early 
2020.
Having considered the information that was available at that time I cant reasonably agree 
that on 10 March 2020 when Ms G discussed her pension options with Scottish Widows that 
Covid 19 was a vague and distant threat. Nor do I think that she would have necessarily 
attributed a fall in the value of her pension pot to some other market forces at work.
As I said above, it is not in dispute that it would have been helpful if Ms G had been given an 
up-to date-valuation when she discussed her pension options on 10 March 2020. It is not 
clear to me why the representative used a valuation from 27 February 2020. 
But I must consider that the letter Ms G received from Scottish Widows dated 10 March 
2020, following the discussion made clear that the information provided was based on the 
value of Ms Gs pension pot as at 27 February 2020 and said:
Please note the values contained in this letter are not guaranteed.I must also take into account that in the call Ms G had with Scottish Widows on 25 March 
2020 the representative explained that Ms Gs annuity and tax free cash would be based on 
the value on her pension pot on 10 March 2020. The representative confirmed the value of 
Ms Gs pension pot on 10 March was £52,670.88 and said that this was the figure we will 
use for the claim as long as you are still happy to go ahead with that. Ms G was clearly 
disappointed with the fall in the value of her pension pot but confirmed that she still wanted 
to go ahead and take her benefits.
I note that Ms G has said that if she had been made aware of the fall in the value of her 
pension pot on 10 March 2020 she would not have linked this to the impact COVID-19 was 
having on financial markets andwould have postponed drawing on the pension assuming 
that within a year or so it would return to its previous value. But there is never any guarantee 
about how financial markets will perform. In any case, Ms G was free to have postponed 
taking her pension benefits when she was told about the fall in the value of her pension pot 
on 25 March 2020. 
Having carefully considered this complaint I cant reasonably require Scottish Widows to pay 
Ms G the difference between the value of her pension pot on 27 February 2020 and the 
value on 10 March 2020. 
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms G was hoping for. But, based on the 
information available I cant safely conclude that Ms G would not have taken her pension 
benefits if she had been given an up-to-date valuation on 10 March 2020. If she felt the 
revised valuation was too low she had the opportunity to tell Scottish Widows that she didnt 
want to go ahead on, or shortly after the call on 25 March 2020.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman