DRN-3983121
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
tried to make a payment using his Nationwide credit card.
What happened
On 26 October 2021, Mr T tried to make a payment of £5055.98 using his Nationwide Credit 
Card. When the payment was blocked, he contacted Nationwide and was told there was a 
fraud block on the account, and hed need to speak to the fraud team when it opened at 
8am. The following day, Mr T contacted the fraud team and the block was removed.
Unfortunately, when he tried to make the payment again, it was blocked. He contacted the 
fraud team a second time, and the transaction went through. 
Mr T complained to Nationwide, asking for £200 compensation. He said the transactions 
werent fraudulent and Nationwides security systems were unfit for purpose. He said the fact 
its fraud team was unable to unblock legitimate transactions between 8pm and 8am meant 
customers wishing to make vital transactions were left in the lurch. He also said this was 
contrary to Nationwides website which advertised that its credit card security office was 
open 24/7. He also said Nationwide had told him it couldnt accept incoming calls to remove 
blocks, and that it had refused to accept his complaint by phone.
But Nationwide didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said its agent had been unable to 
remove the block as this could only be done by the fraud team. And that its fraud line was 
open 24/7, but it couldnt remove blocks either. It also verified that the fraud team couldnt 
accept incoming calls to remove blocks. 
Nationwide accepted there had been delays in logging the complaint, offering £100.00 
compensation. It later offered a further £50 compensation for delays in its investigation of the 
complaint. It also apologised for its failings and said it would consider reimbursing any costs 
Mr T had incurred because of these errors.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. As well as the fact hed had to 
wait until 8am to have the block removed, he also complained that the fraud team are able to 
accept incoming calls and the fraud line is unable to unblock transactions. He said he 
wanted an apology and £200 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied Nationwide 
had been taking precautions to protect Mr Ts account, explaining it had blocked the 
transaction once, and, on the second occasion, it had been blocked by Visa. She also noted 
Mr T had asked for an apology and that Nationwide had apologised in its responses dated 6 
July 2022 and 5 August 2022. It had also explained its 24/7 fraud line was in place to report 
fraud, not to remove account blocks.
Our investigator agreed there were errors in Nationwides handling of the complaint, but she 
felt it had already offered sufficient compensation for the level of stress and inconvenience 
Mr T had suffered.
Mr T has asked for his complained to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes cited the 
statement on Nationwides website that its a quick and easy process to either confirm the 
fraud or remove the block from your card, which he says suggests its fraud team was able 
to unblock cards. He doesnt accept that Visa blocked the payment second time and, if it did, 
he questions why Nationwide shouldnt accept responsibility. And hes said the fact 
Nationwide refused to accept his complaint by phone hasnt been dealt with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr T feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
On 26 October 2021, Mr T tried to make a payment of £5055.98 using his Nationwide credit 
card. This payment was blocked by Nationwides fraud systems and when Mr T spoke to it to 
confirm the payment was genuine, the block was lifted. Ive considered whether Nationwides 
decision to block this payment was fair and, based on the fact the payment had triggered its 
fraud systems, Im satisfied that it was.
After the block was lifted, Mr T attempted to make the payment again, and it was blocked a 
second time. Nationwide has explained that even though the payment had previously been 
verified by Visa, this didnt preclude it from being blocked again. Our investigator said the 
second payment was actually blocked by Visa, but Mr T disagrees. Either way, I dont think 
the fact the payment was declined a second time was unfair of unreasonable, nor did it result 
in any financial loss. 
Mr T is unhappy that when the payment was first blocked, he had to wait until 8am to have 
the block lifted. Ive considered the circumstances and while I accept it would have been 
more convenient if the fraud team had been available when he first spoke to Nationwide, its 
not our role to tell the banks how to manage their systems and I cant see that Mr T was 
treated unfairly or suffered any financial loss as a result. Further, Nationwide told Mr T that if 
he had evidence of financial loss, it would reimburse him, but he hasnt provided any such 
evidence. 
Mr T doesnt accept Nationwides explanation that their fraud line, which is open 24/7, isnt 
able to lift blocks. Ive considered Nationwides explanation that the line is open to enable its 
customers to report fraud and, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Ive no reason 
to doubt that, and Im satisfied its reasonable.
Mr T has also complained that Nationwides fraud team doesnt take incoming calls. Again, I 
understand this felt like an inconvenience, but Nationwide has systems in place to protect its 
customers and, provided they are reasonable, and all its customers are treated equally, its 
not for me to comment on.
Nationwide has paid Mr T £150 compensation for its failure to log the complaint and its 
delays investigating. I understand Mr T found the events distressing, but Im satisfied £150 is 
fair and that it appropriately reflects the distress and inconvenience that Mr T has suffered 
because of Nationwides failings. In reaching this conclusion, Ive considered the 
inconvenience Mr T suffered because of Nationwides failure to log the complaint and the 
delays that followed. Finally, Im satisfied Nationwide has apologised for its failings and to expect it to do anything 
else would be unreasonable.
I understand Mr T will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman