DRN-3709104
The complaint
Mr H has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund money he lost from his 
account as a result of a scam.
What happened
In 2021 Mr H received a phone call from someone who said they were from HMRC. Mr H 
had received financial assistance throughout the pandemic from HMRC so wasnt 
immediately surprised to hear from them.
He was told he owed them money. It was stressed how much under threat of arrest he was if 
this wasnt sorted straightaway. Mr H knew he had sufficient funds to pay what he owed. He 
was talked through by the person, pretending to be HMRC, how to make the payment. Mr H 
used his Nationwide debit card to make an online payment using a money transfer app of 
£2,165.09. 
Nationwides system of automated fraud checking meant that Mr H was sent a text asking 
him to confirm the transaction was genuine. Mr H had been warned by the fraudster that 
hed be receiving this text. The fraudster had stressed throughout how important it was for 
Mr H to make this payment, so Mr H confirmed this was a genuine transaction.
After putting down the phone, Mr H discussed what had been going on with a work colleague 
who warned him this sounded like a fraudster rather than the genuine HMRC. Mr H also 
spoke to his father who suggested he sort things out with Nationwide.
Mr H asked Nationwide to refund him as hed been the victim of a scam. Nationwide wouldnt 
refund the money as Mr H had authorised the transaction. They also told him he should have 
taken further steps to check out the caller properly.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed what had 
happened and explained she thought Nationwide had taken adequate steps to protect 
Mr Hs money. She wouldnt be asking them to refund Mr H.
Still unhappy, Mr H asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr H made and authorised the payment. I dont doubt Mr H was 
scammed and the money didnt end up with HMRC, as hed instructed, but this doesnt 
impact whether the account-holder made the transaction their selves. Im satisfied the 
transaction was authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Nationwide has an obligation to follow Mr Hs instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr H is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Nationwide 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr H fell victim to a scam that wasnt particularly unusual. Mr H believed he was under threat 
of arrest if he didnt make this payment immediately to HMRC. He didnt question what he 
was told about making an online card payment using a transfer service. I appreciate the 
tenor of the conversation made him feel vulnerable and he felt he had no choice but to make 
this payment immediately.
Hes confirmed he believes if Nationwide had alerted him to what was going on, he wouldnt 
have made the payment. And I can see that as soon as he was made aware of this being a 
scam, he took steps to sort things out with Nationwide.
Nationwide has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions. 
I can see this is the case as they initially blocked the payment Mr H attempted to make. They 
sent a text to alert Mr H and asked him to confirm this was a genuine payment. He did.
This debit card payment  although using an online transfer service Mr H hadnt used 
previously  was not of a particularly high value when I look at other payments Mr H had 
made when using his Nationwide account. I can also see that Mr Hs account had more than 
sufficient funds to make this payment.
Ive considered whether Nationwide should have intervened further, but overall I dont 
believe so. I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have considered a one-off, properly funded 
payment of this value so unusual, given Mr Hs historic use of his account, such that it 
required further intervention; like perhaps delaying the payment, once Mr H had confirmed it 
was a genuine transaction. 
Ive noted Mr Hs arguments why Nationwide should refund him. These were eloquently 
expressed on his behalf by his father whos represented him in his complaint. Theres no 
indication that Nationwide would have known of Mr Hs vulnerabilities. Nor can I instruct 
Nationwide to refund him under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code. Theres no dispute hes fallen victim to a scam, but the Code simply doesnt cover 
money lost though debit card payments. 
Ive also considered whether Nationwide did enough after it was notified about the scam? 
There is a mechanism with card payments where banks can try to get money charged back. But the instruction Mr H gave was for the money transfer service to take money, using his 
card, from his account and send them on to the designated recipient. As far as I can see the 
money was remitted as Mr H requested.
Overall I believe Nationwide took sufficient steps to protect Mr H and I cant fairly tell it to 
refund Mr Hs money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman