DRN-3240175
The complaint
Mrs K and Miss K complain about the service DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited trading as DAS (DAS) provided in relation to a legal expenses claim.
What happened
Mrs K and Miss K had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with DAS as part of their home 
insurance policy.
In April 2019 Miss K contacted DAS for assistance in relation to a dispute she had with a 
third party. After initially being declined, her claim was later accepted. And, in line with the 
terms of the policy, Miss K appointed her own solicitors to handle her claim.
The claim was scheduled for a judicial mediation in early June 2020. Miss Ks solicitors let 
DAS know when the mediation was taking place and DAS gave them the impression that 
theyd be available to discuss things on the day. 
Miss Ks legal advisers thought a reasonable settlement figure for her claim would be around 
£15,000. Miss K says she had to accept an offer of £9,500 because DAS didnt respond 
when Miss Ks solicitors tried to speak to them during the mediation. She was worried if she 
didnt settle then, DAS would refuse to cover her costs of pursuing the claim to a hearing. 
After the settlement had been agreed, DAS said that, since the dispute was settled at 
mediation and costs had been saved as a result, theyd top up the settlement by £3,700 
bringing the total to £13,200.
Miss K complained to DAS. She wanted DAS to top up the settlement figure to the £15,000 
her legal advisers had said would be a reasonable settlement figure. DAS refused to pay any 
more but gave Miss K £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused 
when her solicitors werent able to discuss things with DAS on the day of the mediation. 
Since DAS didnt uphold their complaint, Mrs K and Miss K brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said it was likely DAS would have needed to discuss the prospects 
of success before agreeing to their claim progressing beyond the mediation; and he couldnt 
say whether that was likely. He said the payment of £3,700 was made on a discretionary 
basis outside the terms of the LEI policy, so he wouldnt ask them to increase it. But he felt it 
was right for DAS to pay something for the poor service theyd provided  and he thought 
DASs offer of £150 was fair compensation. 
Mrs K and Miss K didnt agree with our investigators view, so the complaints been passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K and Miss K had LEI cover, underwritten by DAS, as part of their home insurance 
policy. Broadly, the cover provided was for reasonable and necessary costs charged by   
Mrs K and Miss Ks legal representatives, and any opponents costs they might have to pay, 
up to a total of £50,000. 
The policy didnt provide any cover for any losses Mrs K and Miss K incurred and were 
claiming against a third party. So, DAS werent responsible for making any payment towards 
the damages Miss K was claiming against the third party in this case.
DAS exchanged emails with Miss Ks solicitors in the days leading up to the mediation on    
8 June 2020. On 4 June 2020 DAS asked the solicitors for confirmation of the costs involved 
so they could set a reserve. And they said their offices were open on 8 June and theyd be 
able to discuss any settlement offers received. Miss Ks solicitors replied on 5 June with 
costs information and said counsel had advised a reasonable settlement would be between 
£15,000 and £20,000.
On the day of the mediation Miss Ks solicitors managed to speak to a DAS representative to 
ask if theyd top up any settlement to £15,000. The representative referred it to colleagues 
for consideration. The solicitors emailed several times to chase a response, updating DAS 
on the negotiations. DAS failed to reply. Miss K agreed a deal at £9,500.
I can see that Miss K planned to reject an initial and a later improved offer, if DAS could 
confirm theyd continue to fund her claim. But Miss K made a counter-offer and settled at just 
below it. Her solicitors said shed accepted it since the third party wouldnt change their 
position and because they hadnt heard back from DAS about whether the figure would be 
topped up. 
Ive thought carefully about what happened. I can understand Miss K was disappointed she 
didnt recover as much as shed been advised would be reasonable. But I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to ask DAS to pay more than the £3,700 they have already paid to Miss K to 
top up the settlement she received. Thats because: 
1) As Ive explained, there was no obligation on DAS to make any payment towards the 
settlement under the terms of the policy;  
2) I understand Miss K wanted to know whether DAS would top up the settlement and 
fund her legal costs if she chose not to accept the figure the third party was offering. 
But I think its reasonable to say that, if DAS had been available to discuss things on 
the day of the mediation, its likely they would have exercised their commercial 
discretion in the same way they did following the mediation. Thats to say, DAS would 
have noted an offer of £9,500 had been made, that counsel was advising £15,000 
was a reasonable settlement, and that it would probably cost DAS at least £3,700 in 
costs if the case went to a hearing. So, in the interests of resolving the case at that 
stage, DAS would likely have agreed to top up the settlement to £13,200 as they did 
later; and 
3) Its unlikely that if DAS had made that offer during the mediation, Mrs Ks solicitors 
would have advised her to reject it and pursue her case to a hearing for the sake of 
an additional £1,800, especially since theyve said that it was clear to both counsel 
and the judge that the third party wasnt going to increase its offer to the £15,000 
they considered reasonable, and that further delays and costs would result from the 
mediation being unsuccessful.
Bearing the above in mind, I wont require DAS to make any further payment to Miss K to top 
up the settlement she received.I agree DAS should have provided Miss K with better service. I think it was reasonable for 
Miss K to think her solicitors would be able to discuss things with DAS on the day of the 
mediation given their email of 4 June. And I accept it will have added to an already stressful 
day for Miss K when they werent able to get a response from DAS about whether theyd top 
up any settlement or continue funding her claim if she decided not to settle. DAS didnt get 
back to Miss Ks legal advisers until the following day and then failed to leave contact details 
for them to return the call. And theyve acknowledged they failed to respond to some earlier 
correspondence within their own timescales.
I can understand all of this was disappointing for Miss K. But I think the compensation of 
£150 DAS paid fairly and reasonably reflects the impact on Miss K. So, I wont ask DAS to 
pay any more.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Miss K will be disappointed, I dont uphold 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman