DRN-2981166
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited closed his bank account and wont return money 
held in the account to him. He wants the bank to return the money and pay him 
compensation.
What happened
On 4 February 2020, two payments totalling just over £89,000 were made into Mr Ss 
Starling bank account. 
Starling took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr S was operating 
his account. So, the bank blocked Mr Ss account and asked him about the origin of the 
money which had been paid into his account. Mr S told the bank that the money was 
payment for work hed done and in support of what he said he provided the bank with a copy 
of a contract of employment and two invoices.
 
Starling reviewed the paperwork Mr S provided, but said it wasnt sufficient to show he was 
entitled to the money in his account. So, it didnt release the money. Following this the bank 
decided to close Mr Ss account.
Mr S wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into things. She said that Starling hadnt done anything wrong 
when it reviewed and closed Mr Ss account. And had acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it had retained the funds. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And the bank should release the funds back to him. He said hed 
earnt the money and Starling had breached the terms of its contract with him. He explained 
that hed been caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience. And had been placed into 
financial difficulty because of the banks actions. So, he wants the bank to pay him 
compensation and provide an explanation for its actions. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Starling has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Starling may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access to accounts and 
funds held within them. Starling is also entitled to ask a customer for more information about 
how they use their account, including payments which are made into and out of an account. 
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account or access to money in his account 
made things quite difficult for Mr S  especially during the Covid pandemic. So, I can 
understand why he found this experience with Starling stressful and upsetting. But as Ive 
explained, banks have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having 
looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Starling was complying with its obligations when 
it blocked Mr Ss account. The bank has explained that this was its standard procedure, and 
I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr S inconvenience, I cant say Starling 
treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
I understand Mr S wants Starling to explain why it blocked his account and retained his 
funds. But Starling doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
released to him. Mr S says the money was paid to him for work hed been contracted to do 
for an overseas company. And hes provided copies of what he says is his employment 
contract and two invoices for materials. But Ive also looked at the information the bank 
relied on to take the actions it did. And having done so I cant say the bank has treated Mr S 
unfairly when it decided not to release the money to him. Im satisfied that the bank acted in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations in retaining the money paid into Mr Ss 
account. So, I wont be asking the bank to release the funds to him. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Starling closed Mr Ss account with immediate notice. In my view that was reasonable, given 
the concerns the bank had about how Mr S was operating his account. And Im satisfied it 
did so in line with the terms and relevant regulations. So, whilst I appreciate this caused 
Mr S trouble and upset, I cant say Starling have treated Mr S unfairly when it decided to 
close his account without notice. In other words, there has been no breach of contract, as 
Mr S has suggested, because Starling has acted in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman