DRN-3973677
The complaint
Ms X is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined her claim on her income 
protection policy. 
What happened
Ms X has a group income protection policy through her employer that is underwritten by 
Aviva. 
Unfortunately, in May 2019 she was diagnosed with having a low-grade tumour in her brain 
and was told that due to the location, it was too high risk to operate on. Ms X says during this 
time she refused to process and understand the long-term impact of her diagnosis - she told 
very few people about her diagnosis and continued to work. 
In November 2019, it was agreed that the tumour hadnt changed size and her seizures were 
more controlled, so they wouldnt operate and it would be monitored annually for any 
changes. 
Ms X then went on annual leave for three weeks. When she returned to work in December, 
she started having breakthrough seizures, continual issues with her throat and her memory 
function began to decrease. She said she began struggling to cope at work.
In January 2020, she was signed off work by her doctor. She returned to work for two days 
in February but wasnt able to continue working and her long-term absence started on 11 
February 2020.
Ms X submitted a claim on her policy. Aviva said the evidence suggested her absence was 
due to work place stress, so it wasnt covered by the policy. In addition, they didnt think 
there was enough medical evidence to show she was unable to perform in her role. 
Aviva said there was evidence from July 2020 that there was a deterioration in her 
symptoms as she reported extreme fatigue, memory impairment and constipation. But it still 
didnt think her symptoms were severe enough to render her incapacitated under the policy 
terms and there wasnt a detailed explanation as to how they affected her ability to work.
Aviva also explained, as Ms X had been off work, they wouldnt be able to consider a new 
claim from July 2020 in any event, because she wouldnt meet the Actively at Work (AAW) 
criteria under the policy which says the employee must return to work for at least one day 
undertaking all their normal duties. 
This concerned Ms X. She was worried she may require brain surgery in the future and her 
subsequent absence wouldnt be covered. Aviva said they would be prepared to waive the 
AAW clause if surgery was needed, and they would cover Ms Xs period of recovery until 
she returned to work. They confirmed the 26 week deferred period would be reapplied from 
the date of her operation and any benefit payment would be made outside the policy terms. 
Ms X remained concerned that if she needed surgery and is unable to return to work at all 
due to memory impairment (which shes been told is a likely risk following surgery), then she 
wouldnt be covered by her policy. 
In October 2020 Ms X started a phased return to work.  Aviva paid a proportionate benefit to 
support her through her phased return from 26 October 2020 to 6 December 2020. Ms X 
questioned why Aviva would do this when they declined cover for her absence. Aviva 
explained they try and offer support when their customers return to work as much as 
possible, regardless of the reason for an absence.  
Ms X referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened and 
said he disagreed that the reason for Ms Xs absence was work related stress. But he didnt 
think there was enough medical evidence to show why Ms X was unable to work, so he felt 
Aviva had declined the claim fairly. 
Ms X remained unhappy. She didnt think Aviva or our service had given sufficient weight to 
the medical evidence from her GP and the occupational health reports. She reiterated the 
reason for her absence was anxiety caused by her various health concerns at that time, 
including the stress caused by processing her life changing diagnosis. She said her anxiety 
made any previous symptoms worse  the additional stress caused more seizures and 
further decline in her cognitive abilities, to the point where she couldnt continue working and 
needed a break to look after her mental health. 
Ms X informed us shed recently suffered from a similar deterioration of cognitive 
impairments that impacted her concentration, memory, sleep and low mood. She has 
subsequently been signed off work again and been diagnosed with post traumatic post 
disorder (PTSD) from when she was told about her brain tumour. Ms X provided a copy of a 
letter from her consultant psychotherapist confirming her diagnosis. Our investigator advised 
her that if she is absent due to illness then she should submit a claim and include this 
evidence for Avivas consideration.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was intending to uphold this complaint. In 
summary I said: 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I can understand why Aviva initially focused their claim decline on Ms Xs workplace issue. 
But reading all the evidence in the round, I dont think the incident at work in February 2020 
was the reason for her absence. I think its evidence of the deterioration in Ms Xs mental 
health and ability to function at work at that time. Im persuaded the cause of Ms Xs 
absence was the emergence of a mental health illness, brought on from the delayed 
acceptance of her brain tumour diagnosis. 
Aviva argue that this cant be the case because Ms X received her initial diagnosis in May 
2019 and shed been able to continue to work after this. Although Ms X did continue to work 
following her initial diagnosis, I dont think her mental health condition was present at that 
stage. Her medical history shows she was suffering from seizures and side effects and 
problems with sleep in 2019, but it wasnt until her doctors appointment on 23 January 2020 
that she reported anxiety symptoms. 
Ms X explained to Aviva that after her initial diagnosis, she refused to process she had a 
brain tumour and only told a few people. But once time had passed, she begun to accept her 
diagnosis and understand the long-term impact of her diagnosis. I think its reasonable that 
this realisation then caused a delayed anxiety and started to impact her ability to work. 
Ms Xs medical records show that when she returned to work after three weeks annual 
leave at the end of 2019, her seizures had increased and her memory function was 
deteriorating. Im persuaded things came to a head with Ms Xs anxiety in January 2020. 
She visited the doctor on multiple occasions with throat issues, an allergic reaction and 
anxiety. She was displaying significant worry and the doctor had to provide reassurances 
and she was signed off work. 
After careful consideration of all the evidence, Im persuaded this was the start of Ms Xs 
illness and associated absence. Although Ms X returned to work in February, this was only for two days and with what happened with her line manager, I think its further evidence of 
her inability to work at the time. 
Aviva said the evidence doesnt provide enough detail on how Ms Xs symptoms were 
impacting on her ability to work. But I disagree.  
Its important to clarify that the location of Ms Xs tumour is in the section of the brain 
responsible for memory, so this has resulted in cognitive impairment because she has 
trouble with memory and her concentration. Its clear from all the medical professionals, that 
additional stress and anxiety exaggerate her cognitive impairments. 
Ms Xs own testimony about her symptoms and how they impact her ability to work is 
persuasive. From 2020, she consistently reports concerns about her stress and anxiety 
causing more seizures, memory deterioration, lack of concentration and low mood. This is 
supported by both her doctors notes and the occupational health reports which all agree she 
was unfit to work in 2020 and needed time away to focus on improving her mental health 
and wellbeing. 
I think Ms Xs visit to her doctor on 11 February 2020 is crucial.  She is officially diagnosed 
with anxiety and signed off work. The notes say she is very anxious and has booked private 
therapy sessions. They discuss medication to also help treat anxiety, but understandably Ms 
X didnt want to go ahead as she was still trying to get her seizures under control with her 
other medication. 
In February 2020 the consultant occupational health physician says Ms X needs to attend 
therapy to take in and process such a life changing diagnosis. Its recorded that in the 
previous year, she had pushed herself to continue in a practical mode, but she hadnt had 
time to emotionally process the diagnosis and the impact that it would have on her life. The 
report states its of key importance to address Ms Xs mental health symptoms and she 
wouldnt be fit for work for 2-3 moths.  
The report from May 2020 confirms Ms X was having seizure episodes twice a week and 
suffering from poor sleep and motivation, dizziness and fatigue. She reported a decrease in 
her mood and anxiety levels and that wasnt finding her phone sessions with her therapist as 
beneficial as the face-to-face ones prior to the covid-19 restrictions. The physician recorded 
Ms X had a heightened anxiety when thinking about returning to work because she was 
worried about making mistakes due to her cognitive and memory issues. 
The occupation health reports are from two separate consultant physicians, so Ive given 
considerable weight to their consistent opinions regarding Ms Xs mental health, associated 
symptoms and her ability to work at that time. In addition, Im persuaded by them because 
theyre also in line with the opinion and recommendations from her treating doctor. 
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that at the time of Ms Xs absence in January 
2020 her cognitive impairment had deteriorated considerably due to a build up of stress and 
anxiety.  Im satisfied there is enough medical evidence to show Ms Xs symptoms were 
such that she was unable to carry out the duties and responsibilities of her role which 
involved high level communication and concentration. I think its unreasonable for Aviva to 
conclude Ms X was able to perform such duties when she was suffering from anxiety and 
these symptoms increased her cognitive impairments. And I dont think the suggestion that 
working from home or part time was appropriate in the circumstances of this case. 
I can see Aviva did discuss Ms Xs claim with their CMO before deciding to decline the claim 
in August 2020. However, the reason for incapacity is recorded as seizures so the opinion 
only addresses her glioma and gives weight to the fact she still has her driving licence. It 
also focuses on her workplace issues and that she is able to work home. There is no 
assessment of her diagnosed anxiety and associated symptoms. I note Ms Xs concerns about how Aviva have reported on her claim after paying a 
proportionate benefit during her phased return to work. However, its not unusual for insurers 
to offer support to their customers during returns to work, regardless of the cause of their 
absence. Ms Xs phased return was for a short duration, so in the circumstances Im pleased 
to see Aviva still offered this benefit to help support her through this transition back into the 
workplace, even though they had declined the claim.
Its clear Ms X is eager for Aviva to provide assurances for what may happen in the future if 
she requires surgery. I understand why this is important, however I dont think its 
unreasonable Aviva have been unable to provide guarantees. At the time she was absent 
from work, they said they would waiver the actively at work criteria if she did require surgery 
and I think this was fair in the circumstances.
Finally, Ms X has provided a letter from her treating consultant cognitive behavioural 
psychotherapist. In 2022 she was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder around her 
glioma diagnosis. Although this isnt a material piece of evidence from the relevant period in 
question, the later diagnosis does show a progression from anxiety to PTSD. So this further 
persuades me that Ms X was suffering from deliberating anxiety during her absence.
To summarise, on balance, Im not persuaded Aviva fairly declined this claim. Ive carefully 
considered all the evidence, and I think its reasonable to conclude an amalgamation of all 
the worries and concerns in Ms Xs life developed into a mental health condition in January 
2020 - she started to suffer from anxiety and is diagnosed with this by her GP. And Im 
persuaded there is enough evidence to demonstrate that her symptoms prevented her from 
being able to work.
I explained I intended to uphold the complaint and ask Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
put things right by accepting the claim from 24 January 2020 until Ms X started her return to 
work in October 2020. 8% simple interest should also be added from the date that the 
payments should have been made, up to the date that the claim is settled. And pay an 
additional £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms X during an already difficult 
time. And to recognize the detrimental impact this has had on her anxiety. 
Aviva accepted my recommendations. Ms X said the recommended offer of compensation 
wasnt sufficient to compensate for the stress and anxiety Aviva caused. In summary she 
said the £750 compensation wont cover the additional tax shell be charged - at the point in 
time the claim should have been paid, she wasnt working so was paying less tax. And she 
also wanted me to take into account: 
That she had to return to work when she was unfit to do so  and her role was 
adjusted 
She was forced to go back to work because of Avivas actions 
She had to go through this full complaint process whilst dealing with mental health 
issues
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further submissions from Ms X and carefully reconsidered all the 
relevant evidence. However, its not changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
In my provisional decision I set out why I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in relation to the 
Actively At Work (AAW) criteria. I do understand, why in the circumstances Ms X wanted Aviva to provide assurances for what may happen in the future if she required surgery. But 
for the reasons already explained, I think it was fair they made an offer to waiver the AAW 
criteria if Ms X did require surgery. And it was reasonable Aviva said the 26 week deferred 
period would be reapplied from the date of her operation. 
I understand why Aviva said any benefit payment would be made outside the policy terms -
because they couldnt provide guarantees about the future. I still think this was fair.
Ms X said that she forced to return to work as a result of what Aviva did during this claim. 
But Im not persuaded Aviva can be held accountable for this. I say that because although I 
understand why she was concerned about the AAW criteria and how it may effect a future 
claim, ultimately it was Ms Xs decision to go back to work. Aviva had no input in this. 
Ms X has explained she only returned to work because she was worried she may need brain 
surgery following her MRI and she wouldnt be covered under her policy. But Ive already set 
out why I dont think it was unreasonable Aviva couldnt provide assurances about what 
would happen if that was the case. And just because her claim had been declined, it didnt 
mean that futures claims wouldnt be cover needed mean one in the future 
I note Ms Xs comments on the own occupation cover. I appreciate Ms X has had 
adjustments to her role. She says this was because she was unable to fulfil her normal 
duties. This is supported by Occupational Health, but it doesnt automatically mean that 
Aviva wouldve paid a claim over this period. I determined that between 24 January 2020 
and October 2020 there was enough medical evidence to show Ms X met the definition of 
incapacity. After this point Im not persuaded there is enough medical evidence to show the 
bar for incapacity is still met. 
Ms X is concerned that awarding, what she believes to be, a low compensation amount does 
not reflect fair redress for how Aviva treated her. She is worried it wont have any impact on 
Avivas treatment of vulnerable customers in a similar position to her. However, our awards 
are not to punish financial firms or teach them a lesson. 
Finally, Ms Xs employer should work out any appropriate tax reductions and then Ms X can 
go to HMRC if there is anything to rectify.
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited need to put things right by: 
Accepting the claim from 24 January 2020 until Ms X started her return to work in 
October 2020. 
8% simple interest should also be added from the date that the payments should 
have been made, up to the date that the claim is settled. 
Pay an additional £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms X during an 
already difficult time. And to recognize the detrimental impact this has had on her 
anxiety. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited and direct them to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 Georgina Gill
Ombudsman