DRN-2233250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont give them a cash refund of the 
premiums they paid for an annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 February 2020, Mr and Mrs M took out an annual travel insurance policy through a 
broker. They paid £507.59 for the policy, which included additional cruise cover and cover 
for their medical conditions. The policy was due to start on 11 May 2020.
Unfortunately, on 22 April 2020, Mr and Mrs M got in touch with Great Lakes to cancel their 
policy for medical reasons. They said Mr M had been suffering from problems with his legs 
and didnt know if hed be fit to travel during the policy year. They asked Great Lakes for a 
cash refund of the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes cancelled the policy. However, it didnt agree to pay a cash refund of the 
premiums, as the 14-day cooling off period had expired. Instead it offered Mr and Mrs M a 
credit voucher for 100% of the value of the premium, which would be valid for three years. It 
also offered Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata credit towards a new policy which would provide cover 
for 15 months for the price of a 12-month policy.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept either option. They felt that as the policy cover hadnt started at 
the time they cancelled it, Great Lakes should pay them a full cash refund. They asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr 
and Mrs M were entitled to any refund under either the regulators rules or the policy terms. 
He felt Great Lakes had gone beyond what it was required to do by offering a credit voucher 
for the full cost of Mr and Mrs Ms policy.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They said they have no plans to travel until September 2023, when 
the credit voucher wouldve expired. They felt the policy wasnt fit for purpose. They 
accepted they hadn't cancelled the policy within the 14-day period but felt they had paid for 
something they couldnt use.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs M held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs M had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt have been 
entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have 
made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy was purchased on 13 
February 2020 and cancelled on 22 April 2020. This was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes the discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances to be exceptional. While Mr M had concerns about his health, he hadnt 
been advised against travel at this point. It doesnt look like he asked Great Lakes to cover 
his new diagnosis or that it had declined to do so. And from what Mr and Mrs M have said, it 
seems their concerns were more around Mr Ms leg problems being related to a past DVT, 
which Great Lakes had already agreed to cover.
I appreciate that Covid-19 is an added concern for Mr and Mrs M. But, in the circumstances 
of this case, I still dont think its unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline to consider the 
overall circumstances to fall within the exceptional circumstances clause set out within the 
policy. I say that because, based on what Mr and Mrs M have told us, their decision to 
cancel the policy was predominantly related to other reasons. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs M are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs M cancelled the policy because they had concerns 
about Mr Ms future health.
So Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart 
from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms contract. In this case, 
Great Lakes accepts that it wasnt on risk for any of the policy term  so it wouldnt have 
been potentially liable to cover any claims until after 11 May 2020.
Great Lakes has offered to provide Mr and Mrs M with a refund for the full value of their 
policy. I think this is fair and reasonable, given the policy hadnt begun at the time the trip 
was cancelled.
How the refund should be paid?
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a refund of Mr and Mrs Ms 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ms reasons for doing so, it was their decision to cancel the 
insurance policy. They entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return 
for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a 
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a monetary refund to Mr and 
Mrs M. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months. It can be used to buy a 
future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M may not wish to use a voucher, as they say they have no plans 
to travel until 2023. Ive considered this. I appreciate these are uncertain times. But on the 
basis of the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that there wont be opportunities 
for Mr and Mrs M to travel before this, or that Mr Ms health will prevent them from doing so. I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the 
voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances and I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M have approached their credit card company to try and get a 
refund through a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act. It isnt clear whether this 
has been successful. If Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the outcome of that process, they 
could look into making a separate complaint to us about that issue. Id add though that even 
if Mr and Mrs M didnt get a refund from their credit provider, I still think theyve been treated 
fairly and reasonably by Great Lakes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman