DRN-3698576
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by allowing him to 
increase his overdraft limit and unfairly continued to apply charges to his account when he 
was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr C complained to Lloyds about lending decisions regarding his overdraft and about 
charges applied to his bank account dating back to 2006. Lloyds said it couldnt look at the 
overdraft lending as Mr C had brought his complaint too late. 
An ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on 9 February 2022 saying that his complaint 
was in jurisdiction and we could look at Mr Cs complaint about irresponsible lending. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that because Mr C had contacted Lloyds 
and advised that he was struggling financially it shouldnt have agreed to increase his 
overdraft limit to £3,500. They thought that Lloyds should refund all interest and overdraft 
charges applied from 1 August 2007 and backdate the default reported on his credit file to 
this date. 
Lloyds agreed to settle Mr Cs complaint in line with our adjudicators recommendations and 
would refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from 1 August 2007 which 
amounts to £267.48. Lloyds would pay this directly to Mr C as it no longer holds information 
about who the overdraft debt was passed to. Lloyds agreed to backdate the default on Mr C 
credit file to 1 August 2007. 
Mr C didnt wish to accept this offer he wants further compensation for the suffering he 
experienced financially and mentally and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses the overdraft lending Mr C had with Lloyds. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
Unfortunately, due to the time that has passed there is limited information available 
regarding how Mr C managed his account and overdraft with Lloyds. But I can see from 
Lloyds contact notes that Mr C did inform it about his financial struggles in August 2006 and 
that his situation hadnt improved by the time it increased his overdraft limit a year later to 
£3,500. Indeed, not long after Mr Cs account was sent to collections and closed the 
following year. 
So Im in agreement with our adjudicator that the decision to increase Mr Cs overdraft limit 
to £3,500 on 1 August 2007 was not a responsible lending decision as Mr C had already told 
Lloyds that he was struggling financially and it wasnt affordable for him.  
Mr C says he is still paying off his overdraft debt and hes been refunded all of the interest, 
fees and charges caused by his overdraft from August 2007 and that he wants to be 
compensated for the suffering he has experienced both mentally and financially. But Lloyds 
has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added will be removed from what Mr 
C now needs to pay. So what Mr C is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from. I accept Mr C has suffered financially over the years, but I dont agree that 
the interest, fees and charges Lloyds applied have left him with a debt that he wouldnt 
otherwise have been left with. And I dont think having a complaint upheld is in itself a 
compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
So with this in mind Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put things right 
for Mr C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to 
do anything more. 
As this is the case, its up to Mr C to decide whether he wishes to accept Lloyds offer.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman