DRN-3455811
The complaint
Miss X complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has not dealt fairly with a dispute over some 
clothes she purchased with her debit card which she says were not delivered to her.
What happened
Miss X used the debit card connected to her Barclays bank account to pay for some clothes 
she had bought online from a retailer in France. She later contacted the bank asking it for 
help obtaining a refund of what shed paid because she said the clothes had not arrived.
Barclays raised a dispute through the system known as chargeback, in an attempt to 
reclaim funds from the French retailer. The retailer contested the chargeback, arguing that 
the clothes had been delivered to the address Miss X had given when she made her order. 
The retailer provided a confirmation from the courier company which it said showed the 
package had been delivered to her address.
The bank forwarded the retailers reply to Miss X and asked her to get in touch with her 
comments if she wanted to continue pursuing the dispute, by a specific deadline. Miss X 
contacted Barclays after the deadline, saying she had only just received its letter, and 
confirmed she wanted to continue with the dispute. The bank gave her an email address to 
send further submissions to, which she did. However, Barclays decided that it couldnt help 
her any further with the dispute.
Miss X complained about Barclays handling of the matter, but it would not change its 
decision. The complaint was then referred to this service where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld: he thought Barclays had 
acted reasonably in not pursuing the dispute further for Miss X.
Miss X disagreed and asked a number of follow-up questions which our investigator 
answered, but ultimately they were not able to come to an agreement and the case has now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with the purchase. However, a bank may be 
able to assist their customer through the dispute resolution system administered by the 
relevant card scheme. Disputes raised through this system are usually called chargebacks.
The card scheme sets the rules which govern whether or not a chargeback can be made, 
and whether it should be successful. These include rules about what kind of disputes can be 
made via a chargeback, what kind of evidence is required, and any time limits which apply to 
the process. 
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed  they can be contested by the other side to 
the dispute. Ultimately, if no side is willing to concede then the card scheme itself can be 
asked to make a ruling. 
I would expect a bank to attempt a chargeback on behalf of a customer wishing to bring a 
dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. Id 
expect the bank to conduct the process in a competent way, without making mistakes. If the 
chargeback is contested by the other side then I would not expect the bank to accept an 
obviously wrong or invalid defence, but I would not normally expect it to continue pursuing 
the dispute in the face of a valid defence.
In Miss Xs case, Barclays felt that the defence from the retailer was compelling enough that 
it decided to concede the dispute and not take it any further. Ive considered whether that 
was a reasonable thing for the bank to have done in the circumstances, paying attention to 
the rules of the card scheme involved (Visa).
Visas rules say that one of the reasons a person can raise a chargeback is where they pay 
for goods using their card and the goods are not received. This is what Miss X says 
happened, and Barclays raised the initial chargeback for her on that basis.
In order to defend the chargeback, the rules say that the retailer would need to show that the 
dispute was invalid. Examples are given of what would be considered compelling evidence 
of this, and this includes the following:
evidence that the item was delivered to the same physical address for which the 
Merchant received an AVS match of Y or M1. A signature is not required as evidence of 
delivery.
The rules note that in the Europe region, a retailer can provide compelling evidence outside 
of the examples given.
In its defence the retailer provided, amongst other things:
A copy of a proof of delivery document from the courier. This contained reference 
numbers to identify the package, but no signature. It said the package had been 
delivered on 19 November 2020 and that the destination service area was London 
Heathrow.
A copy of the shipping label which had been attached to Miss Xs package. This 
showed the same reference numbers as on the proof of delivery. It also showed 
Miss Xs name, address and post code.
An invoice for Miss Xs order, showing a delivery and billing address which matched 
the shipping label.
I think this was evidence that the package from the retailer had been delivered to the 
address on the shipping label, which was also the address on the invoice. It was the address 
Barclays had registered for Miss X at that time as well, so although the retailer didnt 
specifically provide evidence of an AVS match, I think it likely that such a match would have 
been received. Although there was no signature, the rules specifically say that a signature is 
not required.
1 AVS is short for Address Verification Service. It is a way of checking that the address used by a 
person making an order matches the address registered with the card used to make payment.Miss X has since said that the address is incomplete because there are multiple flats in the 
building and it doesnt specifically reference hers. Shes also mentioned there is no photo 
showing the delivery having been made and that the mention of Heathrow, which is far from 
her home, on the delivery confirmation, points to the package having been delivered 
somewhere else.
It may well be the case that the address was incomplete but I cant see how this assists Miss 
X. It was the address she had given Barclays and the retailer. And the retailer provided 
evidence of the package having been delivered to that address, as required by the rules. A 
photo might have strengthened the retailers evidence further, but the rules dont say this 
was a requirement. Finally, while Heathrow is mentioned as the service area for the courier 
company on the delivery confirmation, this doesnt mean the package was delivered in or 
around Heathrow. The shipping label suggests the package was sent overnight on 18 
November 2020 on a flight from CDG (Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport) to LHR (London 
Heathrow Airport). The courier company has a hub at Heathrow Airport and in various parts 
of London. A three letter abbreviation on the label after LHR identifies the local hub the 
package was likely sent to after arrival at the airport. This is the hub closest to the address 
on the label. So the appearance of Heathrow on the delivery confirmation is in my view not 
relevant  it doesnt mean the package was delivered to somewhere near to Heathrow 
Airport.
As our investigator highlighted, its the role of this service to decide whether Barclays acted 
wrongly in declining to take her chargeback further, not to decide exactly what happened to 
the package. I find Barclays decision not to take the chargeback further was reasonable in 
the circumstances. This is because, as discussed above, the retailer was able to provide 
compelling evidence to dispute the chargeback. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman