DRN-2747763
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr A was contacted online by an individual claiming to work in an industry that 
Mr A was interested in. He posted Mr A a cheque for £500,000, supposedly as payment for 
upcoming work.
At the time, Mr A was a minor in his teens. And his parent explained he had conditions that 
meant his mental age was lower than it would normally be.
Mr A deposited the cheque at an ATM. The next day, he spoke to his parent about the 
cheque, realised this all seemed very odd, and called Santander. He reported the cheque as 
suspicious and it was cancelled. However, he said he didnt know whod sent it to him.
The sending bank said the cheque had been sent from an account that had closed some 
years ago, and so the cheque was fraudulent.
Mr As parent and the sending bank both spoke separately to the senders guardian to find 
out what happened. The guardian explained that the sender had mental health issues and 
believed themselves to be in a high-up industry position. The guardian apologised for taking 
up Mr As parents time and thanked them for handling things thoughtfully. The sending bank 
told Santander they didnt have any fraud concerns.
Santander spoke to Mr A on a number of occasions. Mr A maintained he didnt know whod 
sent him the cheque, despite his conversation with the sender. He got mixed up about 
various facts such as who he spoke to when, the amount on the cheque, and when hed 
been on holiday in the weeks before this all happened. He said Santander had told him it 
was OK to deposit the cheque, but there was no record of this.
Because Mr A had initially deposited a fraudulent cheque and then had contradictions in his 
recounting of events, Santander closed his account and registered a marker at CIFAS 
saying that hed misused his facility. They told him to go to CIFAS if he wanted it removed, 
then CIFAS explained he actually had to speak to Santander as theyd added the marker.
Mr A complained about the marker, but Santander refused to remove it. Our investigator also 
felt the marker was fair since Mr A had been so inconsistent about what happened. The 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr A and Santander a provisional decision on 25 March 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I have to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They needed to be able to show that 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed 
or attempted, along with substantial evidence that would support this being reported to the 
authorities.
Its not in dispute that Mr A received a fraudulent cheque. But I understand the cheque was 
fraudulent primarily in that it came from a closed account, and Im not sure how exactly Mr A 
would have known it was from a closed account. Ive not seen evidence which shows that 
Mr A knew it was from a closed account. The issue, there, would seem to lie with the person 
who sent the cheque, rather than the person who received it. Indeed, I understand that 
Mr As parent was mainly concerned that Mr A was being defrauded, not the other way 
around.
I also acknowledge that Mr A gave Santander explanations that were at points contradictory. 
But its unclear whether thats because Mr A actually knowingly tried to commit a crime, or 
whether its more down to factors such as his young age, his conditions, the time that had 
passed, feeling under pressure when repeatedly quizzed by adults from the bank, and 
potentially intense emotions such as worry or embarrassment. And even if I accept he was 
deliberately not telling the truth, dishonesty alone was not sufficient reason to add this 
marker. There had to be strong evidence he actually tried to commit a crime.
In this case, Im not satisfied that Mr A was trying to commit a crime. Its worth reiterating 
that Mr A was the one who reported the cheque and got it cancelled, and he doesnt appear 
to have ever tried to spend the money. Its difficult to see how exactly he was going to profit 
from that.
Meanwhile, the sender seems to have been the one who actually wrote a cheque from a 
closed account under false pretences  and even then, it seems they did that because of 
their mental health issues. Their guardian appeared to be happy to drop things and was 
thankful to Mr As parent for getting to the bottom of it. The sending bank confirmed the 
parent and guardians story about what the sender had thought they were doing, and they 
had no fraud concerns.
I accept that Mr A acted very unwisely indeed by initially depositing a cheque that was so 
large and from someone he didnt really know. I also accept it is possible that Mr A was 
trying to commit some kind of fraud in some fashion. But given that:
He didnt actually write or send the fraudulent cheque in question
He was the one who reported the cheque and got it cancelled
He didnt spend the money
He was a minor with a potential vulnerability
He doesnt appear to have understood how cheques work, which is understandable 
at his age
The senders guardian was happy to resolve things amicably, and
The sending bank had no fraud concernsI dont think I can fairly conclude that it is most likely Mr A was trying to commit fraud. And 
while I do understand Santanders point of view, I dont think they have sufficient evidence to 
show that Mr A knowingly tried to commit a crime, either  not least bearing in mind the 
standard of evidence needed to support this marker. Ultimately, it seems likely that the 
whole thing was a misunderstanding between two young people who werent fully aware of 
what they were doing.
It follows, then, that Im not currently persuaded that Santander had sufficient grounds to 
apply this CIFAS marker, and I cannot safely conclude that the marker is fair or reasonable 
in the circumstances.
I also understand Mr A was unhappy that Santander closed his account. But putting the 
potential fraud issue aside, Santander were allowed to close the account if they no longer 
wanted to have Mr A as their customer  similar to how Mr A was allowed to close the 
account if he no longer wanted to have Santander as his bank. I will note that Santander 
normally had to give two months notice, rather than the one months notice they gave here, 
though its unclear if the extra notice would have made a significant difference to what 
happened in this case.
Lastly, I can see that Santander wrongly directed Mr A to CIFAS to complain about the 
marker, which sent him down the wrong path and delayed things. I also understand Mr A 
suffered a good deal of distress here, and had trouble getting accepted by banks because of 
the marker. So I also think Santander should pay Mr A some compensation for the impact 
their actions had.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. In light of the new information 
in the decision, Santander removed the CIFAS marker and agreed to pay the proposed 
compensation. Mr As parent added a further point, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As parent reiterated that because of the CIFAS marker, Mr A was turned down for a job 
which hed otherwise passed the interview for. They provided a letter to back this up, and 
explained this had impacted Mr A starting his career and had made him feel particularly low.
I completely understand why the parent reiterated this point and I can certainly appreciate 
the impact this would have had on Mr A. Ive thought carefully about this issue and took it 
into account in deciding what compensation to award.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I wasnt convinced that Mr A was trying to do 
anything significantly wrong here, and I felt that Santander probably didnt have enough 
grounds to add this fraud marker. So it follows that I wanted Santander to remove the marker 
and pay some compensation for their part in things going wrong.But its worth bearing in mind that Mr A acted very unwisely indeed by depositing a 
fraudulent cheque  which he should have reasonably known was suspicious  and then by 
not being truthful with Santander, which put them on alert. Those kinds of actions were 
always going to have consequences. And so I think Mr A also bears some responsibility for 
what happened, not just Santander. As I said before, I can understand Santanders point of 
view and why they initially thought to add the marker, even if I think they ultimately shouldnt 
have added it. Ive also kept in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, and not 
to punish businesses or issue large fines.
With all of that in mind, I think £200 is a fair amount of compensation for Santander to pay, to 
acknowledge their part in things going wrong and the impact it had.
Mr A may also wish to speak to the company who turned him down and let them know that 
the CIFAS marker is being removed.
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK Plc to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute  which I understand they 
have now done, though this may take some time to show on Mr As file. I also direct them to 
pay Mr A £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint, and direct Santander UK Plc to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman