DRN-3716238
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund payments sent from her 
account which she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
On 28 May 2022, Miss F received a text from an unknown number which said her 
Apple Pay had been suspended. It included a link to update her details. Miss F 
didnt read the text immediately. 
On 29 May 2022, more than 24 hours after it had been received, Miss F read the 
text. She clicked on the link and entered her card details. Later that evening, Miss F 
received a call from an unknown number. She disputes answering the call, but a 
screenshot of her phones call log shows the call was answered and lasted six 
minutes. During that time, an Apple Pay token was set up (on someone elses 
device).
In the early hours of 30 May 2022, Miss F checked her Monzo account and realised 
that money had been stolen from her account. Four transactions totalling £279.98 
had been made using Apple Pay  two were at a car garage and two were online 
payments to a catalogue retailer. Miss F reported the matter to Monzo immediately. It 
declined to provide a refund and said she didnt take enough steps to keep her 
security details safe. 
Our investigator acknowledged there were gaps in what Miss F said had happened. 
But they werent persuaded she authorised the transactions or otherwise consented 
to them. They explained two of the payments were in connection with a distance 
contract, so the provision in relation to a failure with intent or gross negligence didnt 
apply. As for the other payments, the investigator didnt find that Miss F had failed 
with intent or gross negligence. They recommended a full refund along with interest 
as well as £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by not refunding the 
transactions sooner.
Miss F accepted the investigators recommendations, but Monzo didnt. The 
complaint was then passed to me to decide. I wrote to both parties informally and 
explained that I intended agreeing with the investigators findings, but I considered an 
amount of £100 to be fair compensation in the circumstances. We didnt hear back 
from Miss F, and Monzo said it didnt have anything further to add.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Miss F didnt authorise the payments. In line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss F isnt liable for payments she didnt 
authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
Under section 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, except where they have acted fraudulently, the 
payer isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a 
distance contract (other than an excluded distance contract, also referred to as an 
excepted contract). That means I dont need to consider gross negligence or intent in 
those situations.
In this case, the online payments went to a catalogue retailer. Theyre distance 
contracts but wouldnt be considered as excepted contracts. As Ive explained, I dont 
need to consider gross negligence or intent in that situation. And I note theres no 
persuasive evidence, nor has Monzo sought to argue, that Miss F acted fraudulently. 
Therefore, Monzo cant hold her liable for these transactions and it needs to put that 
right.
In relation to the remaining payments which were made at a garage, Miss F could still 
be held liable if she failed with intent or gross negligence to keep her security details 
safe. It hasnt been suggested that she failed with intent, and I agree. Her actions 
were of someone who was following instructions to continue to be able to make 
payments using Apple Pay. 
I agree with the investigator that there are a few gaps in Miss Fs testimony. She 
maintains she didnt answer the scammers call. But the available evidence suggests 
otherwise. And during that time, a new Apple Pay token was approved which 
wouldnt have been possible without the verification code that was sent to her phone. 
I cant say for certain whether Miss F answered the call and shared the code. But 
disputes like this one are only ever decided on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Having carefully considered the submissions from both parties, and what we know 
about how these types of scams unfold, I think its more likely than not that Miss F did 
speak to the scammer after unwittingly sharing her card details through the link in the 
text. And somehow, during that call she ended up sharing the verification code. 
Reviewing Monzos submissions to our service, I can see it also thinks that this is 
whats most likely to have happened here.     
Proceeding on that basis, Im not persuaded by Monzos arguments for why it 
considers Miss F was grossly negligent by clicking the link in the text and entering 
her card details, and by not verifying who she was speaking to. Miss F has told us 
she uses Apple Pay as a payment method. So, I can see why the text message 
wouldnt have appeared unusual to her when she received it, and why she believed it 
was genuine. 
I note that Miss F had made a payment using Apple Pay after she received the text 
but before shed read it, which would indicate that her Apple Pay wasnt suspended. 
When questioned, she told us she makes payments using both Apple Pay and her 
contactless card and so didnt think anything about that transaction as she couldnt 
remember what payment method shed used. When faced with that situation, I think that many people who use multiple payment methods wouldnt necessarily pause to 
consider how theyd made their last payment. So, under the circumstances, I dont 
think Miss Fs decision to click on the link and provide details was significantly 
careless. 
Similarly, I dont think providing information  including a verification code  amounts 
to gross negligence on Miss Fs part if the caller would have already been aware of 
the earlier suspension text which shed responded to. Our service has seen several 
cases involving scams of this nature. Typically, a scammer requests certain 
information under the guise of updating the customers details or securing their 
account. Weve seen many people who have complied with such requests thinking 
theyre speaking to their genuine bank, when in actual fact theyre speaking to a 
scammer. I dont think Miss Fs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
would have done in the same circumstances such that I think they amount to a 
serious disregard for an obvious risk. In other words, gross negligence. This means 
that she isnt liable for the remaining transactions in dispute either and Monzo needs 
to put things right for her.
Monzo should have refunded these payments sooner, in line with the PSRs. Because 
it didnt, Miss F suffered added stress and worry, including having to borrow money 
for her friends. Having thought carefully about the circumstances of this case, and 
keeping in mind the financial loss she suffered, I award £100 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd needs to:
reimburse Miss F the unauthorised transactions totalling £279.98;
pay 8% simple interest per year for each refunded transaction, calculated from the 
date of transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and 
pay Miss Y £100 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to put things right for Miss F as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman