DRN-3224990
The complaint
Mr P isnt happy that his Home Insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited
was cancelled. Hes unhappy that hell now have to disclose this to other insurers and that 
the cancellation has been recorded on an external database.
What happened
This complaint relates to a home insurance policy underwritten by Fairmead but sold and 
administered by a broker. For ease, when I speak about actions taken by the broker on 
Fairmeads behalf, Ill simply refer to Fairmead.
On 21 April 2020, Mr Ps arranged a home insurance policy with an annual premium of 
£453.93. When Mr P applied for the policy, he declared that hed made four claims on his 
previous insurance from August 2015 to March 2020. In June 2020, Fairmead became 
aware of a fifth claim made with a previous insurer in December 2019 which was still 
outstanding. 
Fairmead wrote to Mr P asking for information about this claim but didnt receive a response. 
So they wrote to Mr P again and emailed him as well. 
Mr P called and told them that hed spoken to his previous insurer and theyd confirmed the 
claim was closed. They updated his records. But taking this undisclosed claim into account, 
Fairmead decided that Mr P didnt meet their risk criteria. So they couldnt offer him cover. 
His policy was then transferred to another Insurer, who charged a higher premium.
Mr P wasnt happy with this. He said the following:
Hes a retired solicitor and his good name is very important to him.
He felt that hed provided all the correct information when applying for the insurance 
policy.
Hed reported to his previous insurer that he had an issue with damp in his kitchen 
and might need to make a claim. But he didnt know theyd recorded this an actual 
claim.
His previous insurer had increased his premiums which was why Mr P applied for 
insurance elsewhere.
He hadnt received a letter asking for information about this further claim.
He wasnt aware of any problem with his policy until he received notice of the 
cancellation.
Fairmead replied to Mr P on 14 August 2020. They apologised that Mr P felt theyd accused 
him of lying. And agreed to refund one of his monthly payments. But overall, they felt theyd 
acted correctly in transferring the policy to another insurer due to the undeclared claim.
Mr P wasnt happy with this response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and thought that Fairmead had acted correctly. So she didnt ask them 
to do anything more. Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion. 
Since our investigator provided their opinion, weve asked Fairmead for some additional 
information. This was about the information recorded on the external database, details of the 
disputed claim, their risk criteria which says they wont provide insurance due to this 
undisclosed claim and an explanation of any refund of premiums. 
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone buys or renews a home insurance policy, theyre asked questions about 
their home and any claims theyve made. At renewal the insured is asked to confirm that the 
information held by the insurer is still correct. The insurer uses this information to assess the 
risk of providing insurance and how likely the consumer is to make a claim. 
They rely on the answers and information given being accurate. And it may be 
misrepresentation if an inaccurate or incomplete answer is provided to any question. The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) explains that 
misrepresentation can be considered deliberate or reckless, or just careless. 
CIDRA also says that it is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer. And says a failure by the consumer to comply with the 
insurers request to confirm or amend information previously given can be misrepresentation.
CIDRA also says that one of the things that needs to be taken into account is how clear and 
how specific the insurers questions are.
CIDRA says that misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless, if the consumer knew 
that it was untrue or misleading or didnt care whether or not it was untrue or misleading. Or 
they knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer 
and didnt care about this. And it says that misrepresentation is careless if its not deliberate 
or reckless.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr P at the time of his application to see if this was 
correct or not. Under CIDRA, its for the insurer to prove that the information was incorrect or 
incomplete. So they need to provide evidence showing, what question was asked, what 
answer was given, and that the answer given was incorrect.
Mr P was asked to provide details of any claims that hed made in the last five years. He 
disclosed that hed made four claims under previous home insurance policies between 
August 2015 and March 2020. But according to an external insurance database, Mr Ps 
previous Home Insurer had recorded that hed made a further claim in December 2019.
Mr Ps says that he didnt make a claim in December 2019. Hed just notified them of a 
potential claim about damp in his kitchen. And he didnt know that theyd recorded it as a 
claim. Fairmead have provided a screenshot showing the information they considered from 
the external database. But theyve said this claim is no longer showing. So they think its 
been removed. 
Fairmead havent been able to provide details of the information they saw about the claim, 
but Im satisfied that the claim had been recorded. So Im also satisfied that the information Mr P had provided about previous claims in his 
application wasnt correct.
Ive looked at what Mr P has said regarding the disputed claim and Im satisfied he didnt 
deliberately provide the wrong information to Fairmead. I say this because he didnt know 
the fifth incident had been registered as a claim. So as this misrepresentation wasnt 
deliberate or reckless, it should be considered as careless.  
If incorrect information has been provided, CIDRA sets out the action the insurer can take, 
and this depends on whether this was done deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly. 
If it was careless, then the insurer can do the following:
If no claim was made at the time the insurer became aware of the incorrect 
information and if they still would have provided cover but with an increase to the 
premiums, they can ask their customer to pay the additional amount.
If a claim is made and accepted, they can adjust the settlement figure to reflect the 
increased premiums.
If they wouldnt have provided cover, they can cancel the policy and issue a pro-rata 
refund of the premiums already paid.
Ive considered Fairmeads risk criteria. This shows that had they been aware of the 
undisclosed claim, they wouldnt have insured Mr P. So, Im satisfied they were entitled to 
cancel the insurance and refund any premiums paid.
Fairmead wrote to Mr P on 9 June 2020 and requested details of his further claim. They said 
that an updated claims history could impact on his policy and cover. And if they didnt hear 
from him by 23 June 2020 his policy would be cancelled. 
Mr P received the letter on 16 June 2020 and contacted his previous insurer, who told him 
the claim had been closed. He then told Fairmead this. But thered still been a claim against 
a previous policy he hadnt told Fairmead about on his application.
Im persuaded that Mr Ps failure to disclose the potential claim he notified to his previous 
insurer in December 2019, qualifies as a careless misrepresentation under CIDRA. And Im 
satisfied that had Fairmead been aware of this further claim they wouldnt have offered Mr P 
cover. They were entitled to cancel his policy and refund the premiums hed paid, which is 
what they did, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint 
against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman