DRN-2632977
The complaint
The late Mr F was very sadly involved in a fatal accident in 2018. Mr X is the representative 
of his estate. 
Mr X submitted claims under a number of different sections of Mr Fs motor insurance policy, 
which was underwritten by UK Insurance Limited. Hes brought four complaints to us about 
the outcome and handling of those claims, two of which Ive been asked to decide.
What happened
Mr X has sent us comprehensive summaries of the circumstances of the accident, as well as 
his subsequent disputes with UK I and other parties. I dont think it would be helpful for me to 
reproduce those here. Instead, Ive briefly summarised the background to, and each partys 
current position on, the issues Im addressing in this decision (namely the value placed on 
Mr Fs vehicle by UK I and the delay in paying it to the estate). 
The accident took place in 2018, and UK I has been in contact with Mr X since September of 
that year. A year or so later, a dispute arose about UK I disposing of Mr Fs vehicle against 
Mr Xs wishes. Mr X noted one of the documents hed seen referred to a settlement figure of 
around £7,000. He highlighted to UK I that hed never agreed, or discussed, a settlement 
figure in a letter dated December 2019. 
We later became involved in that dispute (which is being considered under a separate case 
reference), and in around October 2020, Mr X told our investigator that the settlement value 
was never subsequently paid to the estate. And he felt the vehicle had been undervalued in 
any event. The investigator asked UK I to look into this.
A short while later, UK I wrote to Mr X. It explained that, having referred to industry guides, it 
would increase the settlement to £7,390. It also noted the claim had been outstanding for a 
long time, so it agreed to pay interest on the settlement from 9 August 2019 (the point at 
which it felt it ought to have been in a position to settle the claim). And in recognition of the 
poor level of service (specifically in relation to the settlement and delay in paying it) it offered 
to make a payment of £350 compensation to the estate. 
Mr X felt the settlement should be higher, and complained to us about that. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt conclude UK I needed to do anything further. She said we 
had a well-established approach to complaints about vehicle valuations, whereby we refer to 
specialist online trade guides. Where an insurers offer is in line with the guides, as was the 
case here, well generally consider that offer to be fair. She thought UK I had recognised its 
delays by offering to pay interest on the settlement and compensation. 
Mr X asked that an ombudsman review things afresh. In short, he said the guides were just 
that  a guide. He said UK Is offer was insufficient to actually buy a vehicle of the same 
make and model on the open market, and quoted examples where vehicles similar to Mr Fs 
had been advertised for prices up to £10,250. He considered advertised prices would likely 
have been even higher but for the impact of Covid-19. He thought it was misleading for UK I 
to say in its terms it would pay market value if it was going to base any settlement on the 
trade guides. I therefore need to reach a decision. 
This decision will address the estate of Mr Fs complaint about the value UK I placed on his 
vehicle, and the delay in paying it. Ill consider the disposal of Mr Fs vehicle and any losses 
(financial or otherwise) which flowed from that in a separate decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive discussed previously with Mr X, its important to be clear that Mr Fs estate is the 
eligible complainant here. The estate isnt a natural person, but a representation of Mr Fs 
interests after his death. It therefore cant suffer distress, but it can be inconvenienced. 
Whilst theres no doubt that the events of the last few years have caused Mr X distress 
personally, that isnt something I have the power to make an award for. Thats because he 
isnt involved in the dispute in a personal capacity, but as a representative of Mr Fs estate. 
And he doesnt have a separate relationship with UK I in a personal capacity.  
In assessing this complaint, my role is to decide whether the settlement UK I has offered to 
the estate is fair, reasonable and in line with the terms of Mr Fs policy. Those said that:
If your vehicle is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing your vehicle 
up to its UK market value. This is the current value of the vehicle at the time of the 
claim  and it may be different to the amount you paid or any amounts we spoke 
about when you insured your vehicle with us.
Determining the pre-accident market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Ive referred 
Mr X to guidance on our website, which sets out that in order to decide if a valuation is fair, 
we compare it with prices in online motor trade guides. And where the settlement thats been 
offered is in line with those guides, were likely to agree it fairly reflects a vehicles market 
value.
The motor trade guides we use are based on nationwide research of likely selling prices, and 
can be adjusted to take into account a vehicles make, model, specification, mileage and 
condition. Theyre also constantly updated, so they can be used to ascertain the likely value 
of a vehicle at a particular date. Thats important here because Mr F was insured for the 
market value of his vehicle at the time of the accident. 
In this case, our investigator used three online trade guides to build a picture of the likely 
value of Mr Fs vehicle at the time of the accident. The first of those, which employs 
researchers to collect and analyse market data on a weekly basis, returned a market value 
of £6,125. The second, which takes an average of advertised prices from all sales channels, 
returned a retail value of £6,874. And the third, which processes market data using a 
statistical model (to account for the difference between advertised prices and transacted 
prices, for example) returned a retail transacted value of £7,410. Ive reviewed these valuations and Im satisfied theyre based on the correct details. UK Is 
valuation (£7,390) is at the top end of the range given by the trade guides. 
I note that there have been discussions about the extent to which the vehicle has been 
modified. For the purposes of anonymity, I wont list those modifications here, but they are 
listed in the report produced by UK Is engineer. UK I hasnt made any arguments (to this 
service) that Mr F misrepresented the condition of the vehicle when he applied for his policy. 
So, Ive only considered whether theyre likely to have added to the vehicles market value. 
Generally, its unusual for additions like this to make an overall difference. Thats because 
they can increase the desirability of the vehicle to some potential buyers, but can decrease it 
to others. From what Ive seen, I dont think any of the additions were of such a quality that 
theyd be likely to have increased the vehicles market value overall.
Our website also mentions that we dont generally find adverts as persuasive as the trade 
guides. Thats because differences in mileage and age can significantly affect value, and 
sometimes vehicles end up selling for below the advertised price (due to a lack of interest or 
negotiation, for example). Its therefore usually possible to find adverts for vehicles for sale at 
much higher (and often lower) prices than the likely values returned by the trade guides. 
Ive reviewed the adverts Mr X has sent through, which have prices ranging from £7,500 to 
£10,250 despite the time thats passed since the accident (which youd expect to have led to 
further depreciation). Some of the adverts are for different editions of Mr Fs vehicle, 
however. The most expensive advert is for a vehicle that isnt as old as Mr Fs. And the more 
expensive adverts are for vehicles that have done significantly less mileage. Most notably, 
all of the vehicles are petrol, whereas Mr Fs vehicle was a diesel. So, whilst I have kept 
them in mind, I dont find the adverts to be directly comparable. 
Conversely, one of the trade guides shows vehicles of the same make and model as Mr Fs, 
again with a range of mileages, that were recently listed for sale for between £3,900 and 
£7,000. This illustrates my point about how much advertised prices can differ. 
Mr X also argues that the advertised prices would be even higher were it not for Covid-19. 
But its generally thought that, at least to begin with, the used vehicle market was fairly 
resilient to the pandemic as it created a demand for cheaper, used vehicles (because of a 
hiatus in the production and sale of new vehicles, a ban on vehicle repossessions - which 
meant less used vehicles were available for resale - and an avoidance of public transport, for 
example). 
Overall, while Im grateful to Mr X for sharing his market research with us, and appreciate 
this is a matter he feels strongly about, Im satisfied, on balance, that UK Is settlement offer 
is fair, reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy. I dont find that 
UK I misled Mr F in its use of the phrase market value in the policy terms, or that it acted 
unreasonably by relying on the trade guides when calculating its settlement offer.
Im pleased to see that, in recognition of the delay in paying the settlement amount to the 
estate, UK I added interest to compensate it for not having use of that money during the 
period of delay. However, its important to note that interest should be calculated up until the 
date of settlement, and shouldnt be curtailed to the date of the final response letter just 
because Mr X exercised his right to have the complaint reviewed by this service. 
I think the £350 compensation UK I has already offered fairly reflects the inconvenience to 
the estate itself of the payment being delayed, and the need for Mr X (as a representative of 
the estate) to chase things up with UK I. I havent seen fit to award further compensation for 
the issues outlined in this decision. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I find that UK Insurance Limited has already made a fair offer 
to settle this complaint. 
I direct it to pay £7,390 to Mr Fs estate in settlement of the claim, plus interest at a rate of 
8% annual simple from 9 August 2019 to the date of settlement and £350 compensation for 
the inconvenience it caused (if it hasnt done this already). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman