DRN-3720534
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt open her cash ISA.
What happened
On 13 April 2021, Mrs T applied online to open a cash ISA with Nationwide, switching from 
another provider (A). She wanted to open a cash ISA at a rate of 0.75%. The return at A was 
lower  0.35%. On 21 April 2021, Nationwide sent the transfer request to A. It was rejected 
by A with the reason account not found. On 21 April 2021, Nationwide sent a text message 
to Mrs T to ask her to get in touch within five working days about her transfer. Mrs T didnt 
get in touch with Nationwide and the transfer failed. Mrs Ts deposit remained locked in a 
fixed rate with A.
Mrs T complained. He said she hadnt had a text message so she hadnt contacted 
Nationwide. She said it wasnt sufficient to send a text message for such an issue, and email 
and/or post was a better method. She said she had completed the online form accurately 
and therefore she couldnt see how the switch had been rejected by A. She was now locked 
into a lower rate of interest with A and wants Nationwide to compensate for the loss of 
interest.
Nationwide said A had rejected the transfer as the account details werent found. Theyd 
texted Mrs T on 21 April 2021 but she hadnt responded.  If she had done so, and provided 
the correct details, Nationwide couldve proceeded with the transfer, but she didnt. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us and our investigator felt Nationwide acted reasonably. He 
said Nationwide followed their process for transferring ISAs into the firm. Theyd shown 
evidence that the transfer had been rejected. And then sent a text message to Mrs T  this 
asked her to get in touch within five working days. And as she hadnt, the transfer wasnt 
completed. 
Mrs T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Ts complaint is that she says she didnt get a text message  and that such 
a means of communication isnt appropriate. She says that email and/or post would be 
better.
Im sorry we have taken a long time to give Mrs T a final decision. I want to assure her that in 
the meantime, we asked Nationwide for more information and evidence  as I wanted to 
ensure that it was reasonable for Nationwide to use a text message in these circumstances.
Let me say what our role is: we cant tell businesses to change their operations, processes, 
or procedures  thats up to them, and we cant interfere. But our role is to decide if 
customers have been treated fairly in the circumstances of their complaint.
Under the rules for ISA transfers  they must be completed within 15 days. So, the 
timescales are quite tight. Nationwide take the view that they must act quickly when dealing 
with transfers  and therefore their process is to send a text message to customers where 
theres a problem with a transfer. 
I can see in Nationwides records that they sent a text message to Mrs T on 21 April 2021 at 
3.49pm. It said Theres an issue with your ISA transfer in request. Please call us within the 
next five working days on 0800 XXXX. But unfortunately, Mrs T didnt call Nationwide and 
the transfer failed to go ahead. I looked at Nationwides processes, and they say that if a 
customer contacts them within the timeframe, the application can be amended and it might 
go ahead. Im satisfied that having seen the evidence, the text message was sent to Mrs T.
And Ive seen that it was sent to her mobile number in Nationwides records  it has been 
held by Nationwide since 2016. So  they were entitled to use it as a means of 
communication. And Mrs T has confirmed to us what her mobile number was - and Ive seen 
that it is the one held in Nationwides records.
We asked Nationwide more about why they use text messages and not other means of 
communication  and they told us that texts are their process in these circumstances  
because of the tight timescales involved. As Ive indicated, in an ideal world it seems to me 
that an email, or phone call follow up might also be appropriate  but as Ive also said we 
dont have the mandate to ask Nationwide to change their processes. And so on balance, 
because of the short timescales involved for transfers and because Nationwide followed their 
process, Im persuaded that I cant ask Nationwide to do anymore.
Mrs T has also argued that she completed the online application for Nationwides ISA 
accurately and therefore cannot see how the transfer was rejected by A. I looked at Mrs Ts 
application and all I can say is that it does appear to have the information fields completed  
of course, I cant say whether they were correct or not. Or whether A needed more 
information that wasnt on the application. But the rejection of the transfer request by A is a 
matter between Mrs T and A. And so  I cant look at that as part of Mrs Ts complaint here. 
But she may wish to complain to A if she feels the transfer was unreasonably rejected by A.
I appreciate that Mrs T feels strongly about her complaint and will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision, but Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman