DRN-3438340
The complaint
Mr I complains London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) refused to accept his 
proposals to repay his loan after he experienced financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr I says he found himself in financial difficulties and in early November 2020 he wrote to all 
his creditors explaining his position, offering them a six-month payment plan. Mr I says all of 
his creditors accepted his offer apart from LCCU who failed to respond to his request and 
after a telephone conversation, he was asked to call in to sign an agreement. Mr I says 
much to his surprise when he arrived a loan agreement had already been prepared 
extending the loan to five years, which wasnt what he had asked for and was unaffordable 
to him. Mr I says he refused to sign the new loan agreement and LCCU have refused to 
accept his suggested payment plan and have continued to chase him for the debt causing 
him undue stress. Mr I wants LCCU to accept his proposals, suspend interest on his loan 
and compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
LCCU says it offered Mr I a payment plan that would have considerably reduced his 
payments and asked him to provide evidence of his income, by way of wage slips and bank 
statements but these werent provided. LCCU says as the arrears had been left unpaid, it 
acted reasonably in demanding the repayment of the loan.
Mr I wasnt happy with LCCUs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. She 
felt that LCCU had no obligation to accept Mr Is payment offer and it showed forbearance in 
extending the loan term, reducing Mr Is monthly payments. The investigator also says she 
couldnt see Mr I had provided LCCU with proof of his income as it requested.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr I to have his request for a payment 
plan rejected by LCCU when other creditors in a similar position had accepted his proposals.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if LCCU acted fairly when it refused Mr Is 
proposals to reschedule his loan account payments. 
Mr Is complaint centres around the fact that after falling into financial difficulties in 
November 2020, LCCU were unhelpful in agreeing to a payment plan he had put forward 
and simply imposed a plan that was unaffordable to him at the time. Mr I says that LCCU 
have also continued to pursue him for the payment of the outstanding debt. 
The first thing to say here is that although Mr I says his financial position has been impacted 
by the  Covid pandemic and that may well be the case, from the information he has provided 
this service I cant say this was ever explained to LCCU at the time. Its worth saying there is 
no mention of this in his covering letters to his creditors in early November 2020. In those 
letters I have seen that Mr I sent to all his creditors, it simply refers to him falling into 
financial difficulty. I say this because I cant expect LCCU to have known the primary cause 
of his financial problems were down to Covid unless he told them that. Additionally, Mr I 
requested LCCU to freeze interest on his loan account, which wouldnt have been 
compatible with the Covid support guidance given by the Financial Conduct Authority, as 
interest was still payable with Covid payment holiday agreements.  
That said, we would expect businesses like LCCU, to support its customers in these 
circumstances. Its fair to say LCCU had no obligation to accept Mr Is payment plan 
proposals, but what isnt clear here is how it came to the view that what it offered, which was 
extending the term of Mr Is loan, was going to be affordable to him. I can see that in Mr Is 
covering letter in early November 2020, which prompted LCCU to invite him to visit their 
local branch, it included a schedule of payments offered to his other creditors. Importantly 
that letter also included an income and expenditure profile which indicated Mr Is offer to 
LCCU of £25 per month, was all he could reasonably afford at that time.
Knowing that, it appears LCCU following a discussion with Mr I then prepared a loan 
agreement for him to sign which asked Mr I to pay back £115 per month over a five-year 
period, the maximum term it could extend the loan to. LCCU have made the point that this 
represented a sizeable reduction in Mr Is existing monthly payments of £200 per month, so 
they have tried to support him here. Whilst I can see LCCU have offered Mr I some 
forbearance, I cant see what it offered was in Mr Is best interest given it had been provided 
with an income and expenditure profile, evidencing Mr I wouldnt be able to meet the 
payments LCCU had demanded.    
Its fair to say in all probability, if Mr I had agreed to the proposals LCCU offered, based on 
the income and expenditure profile I have seen, he was never likely to be able to afford 
those monthly loan payments and there was little point having that arrangement in place. 
From what Ive seen, part of the issue here seems to stem from the lack of communication 
between both parties to attempt to find an agreeable and workable way forward. I can see 
LCCU have corresponded with Mr I, so he also needs to take some responsibility to ensure 
an agreement could have been reached. I understand from LCCU that when Mr I visited their 
branch in November 2020 there was a disagreement which resulted in Mr I being asked to 
leave the branch. But here I have no evidence to support that, so I cant comment other than 
to say its in both parties best interests to now discuss an affordable and workable way 
forward. 
It wouldnt be fair of me to ask LCCU to reduce the capital sum outstanding here as Mr I 
suggests, as he has benefited from the use of those loan monies. I have also seen a 
statement provided to this service by LCCU, showing it hasnt charged any interest on the 
debt outstanding since November 2020, so I feel they have acted reasonably here. 
With this in mind I propose the way forward is for Mr I and LCCU to discuss a suitable 
payment plan and for Mr I to provide LCCU with an up to date profile of his financial position, 
to enable that. I would also propose LCCU remove any adverse entries on Mr Is credit file 
relating to this loan and  replace it with a payment arrangement marker, to be back dated to 
November 2020. I say this as I am satisfied that would be a fairer reflection of what should have happened at that time. 
I also propose LCCU pay Mr I £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
While both Mr I and LCCU may be disappointed with my provisional decision, I feel this is a 
reasonable and practical way forward here. 
Both Mr I and LCCU responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr I and LCCU until 13 April 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision.
LCCU have confirmed they have nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mr I has 
accepted my provisional decision but wanted clarification regarding any interest charges to 
his loan account since November 2020. As I explained in my provisional decision, which has 
been accepted by LCCU, no interest has been charged on Mr Is loan account by LCCU 
since November 2020 and I wouldnt expect this to be backdated now, simply that a suitable 
payment plan is agreed going forward. 
With this in mind, I see no need to add or change my original provisional decision and so my 
final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct London Community Credit Union Limited and Mr I to agree a suitable payment plan 
going forward, with Mr I providing it with an up to date profile of his financial position, to 
enable that. Additionally, I instruct London Community Credit Union Limited remove any 
adverse entries on Mr Is credit file relating to this loan and replace it with a payment plan 
arrangement marker, back dated to November 2020.
I also instruct London Community Credit Union Limited to pay Mr I £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct London Community Credit Union Limited and Mr I to agree a suitable payment plan 
going forward, with Mr I providing it with an up to date profile of his financial position, to 
enable that. Additionally, I instruct London Community Credit Union Limited to remove any 
adverse entries on Mr Is credit file relating to this loan and replace it with a payment plan 
arrangement marker, back dated to November 2020.
I also instruct London Community Credit Union Limited to pay Mr I £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman