DRN-2488993
The complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on an Evans 
store card, sold in 2000. The credit facility was provided by a high street bank, but a 
company called AXA France IARD is responsible for answering Miss Bs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to AXA throughout this final decision.  
What happened
The store card was taken out in a store and obtained by filling out an application leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Miss B says she doesnt remember being told much about it 
or even agreeing to it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and provided a view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss B disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve spoken at length to the 
company involved to gain an understanding of the processes that were generally used. So 
we now know consumers were asked to fill out an application which was part of a wider 
leaflet-based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were included in what the 
applicant was given to complete. 
I was sent the credit agreement Miss B filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can 
see there was a section on the application about PPI. This invited her to either sign her 
name inside - or leave blank - an option box to have PPI cover. 
Miss B signed at this point as well as at the end of the application, so I think this suggests 
that she did want PPI when she applied for her card. Because I also think she would have 
had access to the terms and conditions as Ive described above, I think she consented to the 
PPI cover when she signed at this point. I think shed have been equally free to not have 
signed the section asking for the PPI.
Also, although I accept Miss B may not remember any of this after more than 20 years, I also 
see that she did incur PPI charges. These would have shown up in her monthly statements 
in my view, adding to the probability that she had asked for the PPI. I think if she hadnt, she 
would have wanted to know why she was being charged. I therefore think its more likely the 
correct consent was obtained in Miss Bs case.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Miss B to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I acknowledge 
AXA could have set out the information about the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but 
overall, I do think Miss B had access to enough information to allow her to make an informed 
decision. 
Ive thought very carefully about the potential benefits Miss B may have enjoyed with her job, 
such as sick pay. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ive checked that Miss B was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI would 
have paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to 
work or until all the balance was returned to zero. 
So, although I cant say why Miss B decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Miss Bs complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that she wasnt 
given an option or there were other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply 
dont have that evidence. Instead, what Ive seen makes me think Miss B specifically 
selected the PPI and had access nearby to the information she needed about the PPI policy 
and its rules. And I dont think theres evidence that any better  or more  information 
wouldve changed how Miss B acted. 
So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint and I dont require AXA 
France IARD to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman