DRN-4011417
The complaint
Miss D complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and the service provided to their tenant 
after her tenant made a claim on her Landlord Insurance policy.
What happened
Miss D held a Landlord Insurance policy underwritten by UKI. This insurance policy included 
optional Landlord Emergency (LE) cover, designed to assist a landlords tenant where a 
home emergency presented itself.
The terms of this cover states that the Insured person would be Miss D and/or the tenant of 
the property. In this situation, Miss D, the policyholder, has provided authorisation for her 
tenant, Mr C, to make a claim on this section of the policy as well as acting as the 
representative for the complaint with our service.
Unfortunately, on 19 August 2022, Mr C discovered a leak from a pipe connected to his hot 
water tank. So, he made a claim on the LE cover. A separate agent manages claims of this 
nature on UKIs behalf. UKI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of this agent 
and so, any reference to UKI includes the actions of this agent.
UKI arranged for a contractor, who Ill refer to as X, to attend Mr Cs home the same 
evening. X identified the leak, isolated the mains supply to the tank and switched off the 
property boiler to prevent any further damage. This left Mr C and his family with no access to 
hot water or heating from this point.
UKI received the job report from X and authorised the required repairs to go ahead on 21 
August. To complete this repair, a replacement part was required and so, this was ordered. 
The part was received, and the repairs were completed on 24 August with heating and hot 
water restored to the property. But Mr C was unhappy with the length of time this took and 
so, he raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think it was reasonable for him and his family to be left without access to heating 
and hot water for five days. Mr C felt he was told the repair would be completed on 22 and 
23 August by X, and he didnt believe a delay in the replacement part being received was the 
cause of this delay. Instead, he felt the delays were due to UKIs failure to progress the claim 
effectively. So, he wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience this had 
caused his family, putting forward a suggestion of £50 a day so, a total of £200 overall.
UKI responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted Mr C believed the emergency 
shouldve been resolved within 24 hours, and that the repair wasnt completed in this time. 
So, they paid £35 to recognise the upset this wouldve caused, and their failure to manage 
the expectations of the parties involved and their failure to communicate with them 
effectively. But they didnt agree that the repair had been delayed unnecessarily as they felt 
this was due to the delivery of the replacement parts, which were out of their control. So, 
they didnt offer to pay anything more. The parties involved remained unhappy with this 
response, so Mr C referred the complaint to us. Miss D provided her authorisation for Mr C 
to progress the complaint with us directly.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They referred to the terms of 
the policy, which explained UKI werent responsible for any part delays. And they also noted 
Mr Cs decision to turn down the alternative accommodation offer put to him by UKI. So, 
considering this and UKIs progression of the claim, they felt the £35 already paid to the 
parties involved was fair. And because of this, they didnt think UKI needed to do anything 
more. 
Mr C didnt agree. He didnt think the £35 fairly compensated his family for their difficulties in 
being able to bathe and wash properly during this time and he referred to his own 
experience of complaint handling processes within similar industries. So, he maintained his 
belief that UKIs offer of compensation should be increased. As the parties involved didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on the parties involved. I 
appreciate Miss D took out the policy to ensure her tenants, in this case Mr C and his family, 
were able to ensure any home emergency situations were resolved efficiently to minimise 
any suffering and inconvenience. And I recognise Mr C and his family were without access 
to hot water for longer than they expected to be. Ive no doubt this wouldve been 
inconvenient, and I dont dispute Mr Cs testimony surrounding this.
But for me to say UKI should increase their original compensatory payment of £35, Id first 
need to be satisfied this offer failed to address, and consider, all of the mistakes made that 
UKI were responsible for. Or, that it isnt enough to address the impact that the parties 
experienced. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
To consider the length of time the claim took to complete, Ive carefully thought about the 
chronological timeline of events. In this situation, Mr C raised a claim with UKI on the 
evening of 19 August 2022, which I note was a Friday. And its not in dispute that UKI 
arranged for X to attend Mr Cs home and temporarily repair the leak causing the damage 
with the first 24 hours they aim for.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the LE cover contained within Miss Ds landlord 
insurance policy, and it explains that where a claim is accepted, UKI will carry out a 
temporary repair (or a permanent repair if this is no more expensive); or take other action 
such as isolating a leaking component.
In this situation, as the repairs required a replacement part that needed to be ordered, X 
isolated the leaking component. I think they acted within the terms of the policy when taking 
this action and that this was done within a reasonable amount of time, as it was completed 
on the same evening the claim was reported.
I can see that it then took a further four days for X to obtain the replacement part and 
complete a permanent repair. And its not in dispute that during this time, Mr C and his family 
were without access to heating and hot water. So, Ive thought about this period of time to 
decide when I think there were unreasonable delays.I think I must take into consideration the fact that X attended Mr Cs home on a Friday 
evening. And that UKI didnt receive the job report for this until the following day, which fell 
on a Saturday, and so the weekend. I can see UKI considered the job report, and repair 
costs, and approved these the following day, on the Sunday. So, UKI authorised the repair 
within 24 hours of receiving the quote from X, and I dont think this is an unreasonable 
amount of time.
I can see once the repair was authorised, the replacement part was ordered. Again, this 
wouldve been on a Sunday and so, a non-working day for most part suppliers. Because of 
this, I think its likely any order wouldve been received by a supplier, and able to be 
actioned, at the earliest on the morning of the 22 August, as this was a Monday.
And I can see the part was received, and fitted, at lunchtime on 24 August, two days later. 
So, from what I can see, I think that the repair was unable to be completed on 22 or 23 
August due to the time needed for the part to be obtained. And I can see in the terms of the 
policy it explains under the heading replacement parts that UKI cannot be held responsible 
if these are delayed or unavailable. 
While I dont think a two day wait time for a replacement part to be obtained is unreasonable, 
and so classified as an unreasonable delay, I think the term quoted above fairly explains that 
UKI arent responsible for the time this takes. So, I dont think Im able to say that there have 
been avoidable delays during the claim process.
But I think its accepted by UKI that during this process, they couldve communicated with 
the parties more effectively. Ive seen in Xs job report, that X advised they intended to return 
to Mr Cs home on 22 August to fit the replacement part. And Mr C himself has explained 
this was his understanding, if a part could be sourced. So, I think X, who were acting on 
UKIs behalf, failed to manage Mr Cs expectations. And this left Mr C believing his heating 
and hot water would be reinstated on 22 August and so, I can understand why hed be 
unhappy that this wasnt done until 24 August. And I do think UKI shouldve compensated 
the parties involved for this, as I think Miss D would expect UKI and X to ensure they treated 
her tenant fairly and reasonably.
But crucially, I think the £35 payment already made is a fair one, that falls within the ballpark 
of what I wouldve directed, based on our services approach. I think it fairly recognises UKIs 
failure, either directly or through X, to manage Mr Cs expectations regarding how long the 
repair would take to complete. And, how this impact on Mr C wouldve translated through to 
Miss D as his landlord, who had chosen to put this cover in place.
But I think it also recognises that X acted within the terms of the policy by completing a 
temporary repair and that, from what I can see, the delivery of the part is what took the time 
to complete the permanent repair, which UKI arent responsible for. I think it also fairly 
considers the time of year the claim occurred, as I dont think being without heating wouldve 
created as much of an impact in mid-August. And I think it takes into consideration the fact 
Mr C was offered the chance to utilise the alternative accommodation offer of a nights stay 
in a hotel on 23 August but chose not to do so due to the logistics of this. While I appreciate 
Mr C feels he asked about this option, rather than being offered it, the point remains the 
same that he turned this down and so, chose to spend another night without hot water. 
So, because of the above, I dont think UKI need to do anything more on this occasion. I 
understand Mr C is unlikely to agree with this, and I want to reassure Mr C Ive considered 
his comments about the level of compensation and the way hes broken this down per day, 
and per person in his household. Ive also considered Mr Cs comments about his own 
complaints handling experience.But crucially, I dont think UKI needed to breakdown their compensatory offer in this way. 
Nor is this something our service looks to do. Ive considered the compensatory offer as a 
total payment, to address the impact caused to all of the parties involved that resulted 
directly from anything UKI has done wrong. And I think this offer is a fair one, as Ive 
explained in my reasoning above.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman