DRN-2505559
The complaint
Mr P complained that 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited (1st Stop) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P was given two loans by 1st Stop as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsAmountHighest Repayment
1 01/05/2015 26/07/2016 24 £3,000 £204.28
2 26/07/2016 Written Off 36 £3,000 £153.24
Mr P mainly complained that if 1st Stop had properly looked into his income and 
expenses it wouldve seen the signs that he wasnt managing his finances well enough 
to be able to manage the repayments and it shouldve known the loans were 
unaffordable for him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He didnt feel that hed seen 
enough to say that loan 1 shouldnt have been provided. But our adjudicator thought 
that 1st Stop shouldve seen from the information it had gathered that it wasnt 
responsible to provide loan 2 to Mr P.
Our adjudicator set out the steps he thought 1st Stop should take to put things right. 
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
Ombudsman. So it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ps complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 1st Stop did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr P and thought carefully about the following key questions:
 Did 1st Stop  complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did 1st Stop  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As far as I can see, Mr P hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that 1st Stop shouldnt have provided this loan  
so Im not upholding this part of Mr Ps complaint.   But, like our adjudicator, I dont think 1st Stop shouldve provided loan 2. Ill explain why 
I say this.
I've taken into account that 1st stop told us this was a renewal of the first loan and Mr P 
would be using the loan partly to repay loan 1 and taking out additional borrowing of 
£1323.25 to cover the cost of car repairs. 
1st stop said existing customers applying for a renewal loan went through the exact 
same underwriting process as new customers. And before providing this loan, Mr P 
was taken through a suite of questions to ensure that it was lending responsibly. 
When assessing his loan application, 1st Stop asked Mr P for details of his income and 
checked this against his payslips. It also asked Mr P about his monthly expenditure and 
carried out a credit check to gain an understanding of his financial situation. 
1st stop gathered information showing that Mr P had disposable income of £579.95 
monthly after considering all his outgoings including costs of living, existing credit 
expenditure and the new 1st stop loan repayment. It assessed his debt to income ratio 
at 47%. So 1st Stop was satisfied that its income and expenditure checks 
demonstrated that the loan was affordable at the time of lending.
But 1st Stop was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. 
The purpose of loan 1 was to partially consolidate debt  in other words, to pay off other debt 
in order to help reduce his monthly outgoings. But I think there were clear indications that 
loan 1 hadnt helped Mr P to get on top of his money problems:
Mr P applied for loan 2 and asked for some extra borrowing when he was just over 
halfway through the term of loan 1  I think that shouldve suggested that using 
loan 1 for debt consolidation purposes looked like it hadnt been successful as he 
was now seeking further borrowing
and this was borne out by other information 1st Stop gathered showing that since 
taking out loan 1, Mr P had opened two further unsecured loans for substantial 
amounts and a credit card account
between taking loan 1 and applying for loan 2, 1st Stop recorded Mr Ps total overall 
debt increasing from around £1,003 to £13,190 in just a little over a year
whilst Ive noted that it appears Mr P told 1st Stop that the card was taken out in 
order to help him rebuild his credit record, what he said about his use of this card 
isnt reflected in what 1st Stop could see. Its credit checks showed that the card 
balance was within a few pounds of its maximum limit within the first month and there 
hadnt been any significant repayments to the account during the 3 months it had 
been running. To my mind, that didnt suggest that Mr P was using the card 
strategically to improve his credit score but rather this indicated that he was having 
problems managing his money and demonstrating his dependency on using 
unsecured credit.  
Thinking about all of this information, I think 1st Stop was aware that Mr Ps borrowing 
record showed he was repeatedly taking out expensive credit and this suggested he had 
become reliant on using this type of borrowing to supplement his income.I dont think 1st Stop could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr P 
wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debt  at a time when the 
indications were that he was already struggling financially. 
So for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ps irresponsible lending complaint.  
I havent seen anything which makes me think 1st Stop acted unfairly towards Mr P in any 
other way. I've taken into account that when presented with medical evidence in December 
2018, it took action later the same day to write off the remaining balance on his loan 
account. I think that was a fair way to treat Mr P in the circumstances. 
Im also aware that 1st Stop didnt deal as well as it couldve done when responding to 
Mr Ps request to see all the documentation it held about him. 
But it took steps to put that right and apologised. I havent seen enough to make me think it 
would be fair to award any additional redress in respect of this.
But Mr P has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. 
So 1st Stop  should now take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt have repaid more than the 
capital amount he borrowed when he took out loan 2. 
To put things right for Mr P, 1st Stop should:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not 
including anything already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) 1st Stop  if it chooses to  may first use the total of A plus B to repay any principal it 
wrote off.
D) 1st Stop should pay any remaining refund to Mr P. 
If there is nothing left to refund and still a balance outstanding made up of written-off 
principal, it would not be fair for 1st Stop to pursue this further.
E) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to take off tax from this interest. 
1st Stop must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct 1st Stop Personal Loans 
Limited to put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman