DRN-3597953
The complaint
Ms L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent her falling 
victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2021 Ms L says she made two 
payments totalling £3,300 using her NatWest debit card. 
The payments went to a merchant Ill refer to as C (who appear to be a crypto-currency 
exchange), although the business Ms L had been dealing with was another firm Ill refer to 
as T. Ms L says that at the time she believed this to be a legitimate investment opportunity, 
but she later learned it was all a scam and her money had been taken by scammers. 
Ms L reported this to NatWest, who ultimately declined to offer any refund. Unhappy with this 
response Ms L brought her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly.
Ms L disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prevention
NatWest have ongoing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests. Ms L has also highlighted relevant industry guidance such as the 
British Standards Institutes (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial 
Harm from Fraud Code which she says supports her position that NatWest ought to have 
done more. 
Ive reviewed Ms Ls statements for the 12 months prior to the payments relevant to this 
complaint. It isnt unusual for people to make infrequent payments from time to time over and 
above their typical monthly spending. And this is a case where the spending is greater than 
would be seen month on month, but not so significantly unusual or uncharacteristic where I 
think its reasonable to have expected NatWest to have done more before processing the 
payments.
Ive also seen that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning about T in 
February 2021  but this was after both of Ms Ls payments had already been made. And 
even if it wasnt, the payments went to C and so NatWest couldnt have known at the time 
that T was the final intended destination for the funds.
Recovery
The only potential route for recovering debit card payments would be the chargeback 
scheme. But a chargeback can only be made against the merchant that received the 
payment (C)  so there would have been no option for NatWest to do so against T. 
NatWest said they were beyond the time limits to raise a chargeback by the time Ms L 
reported this to them. However, C appear to be a legitimate crypto-currency exchange. So I 
dont think NatWest not raising a chargeback here was to Ms Ls detriment in any case. I 
think its most likely C would have been able to evidence that theyd done what was asked of 
them, that being converting the payments to crypto-currency and passing it on to the wallet 
address specified. As such, I dont think NatWest are responsible for failures that prevented 
any recovery of Ms Ls payments. 
Summary
I accept that Ms L was the victim of a scam and Im aware that another bank offered her a 
refund of her loss in similar circumstances regarding payments made through that account. 
Ive considered this but neither of these points obligate NatWest to similarly provide a refund. 
Ive also taken into account Ms Ls personal circumstances and Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties shes experienced in recent times. But in the circumstances here, Im not 
persuaded that this means NatWest ought to have done anything differently. 
Im sorry to hear Ms L lost this money to cruel scammers, but as I dont think NatWest are 
responsible for failures that could have prevented the loss (or that they hindered its 
recovery), Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman