DRN-3431660
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr P complain about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who has avoided their 
cover (treated it as though it never existed) and by doing so, declined their claim made to it 
following a theft.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr P obtained contents cover from Ageas. Following a break-in at their home, 
they made a claim. Mr P spoke to Ageas who asked him if he had any outstanding County 
Court Judgements (CCJ), to which Mr P said he wasnt aware of any. Mr P further explained 
that checking his credit file wouldnt have been uppermost in his mind, as over the last two 
years, he had been unwell and stopped work as a result. 
Ageas later declined the claim as it said that Mrs M and Mr P, didnt declare that Mr P had a 
CCJ at the inception of the policy. Mr P raised a complaint to Ageas as he said he wasnt 
aware of any CCJ. 
In its final response, Ageas said that when the policy was taken out online, a series of 
questions were asked. One of the questions asked if any of the policy holders on the form 
had any CCJ (amongst other financial restraints) recorded against them. To which, Mr P 
effectively answered no.  When the claim was made, Ageas carried out certain checks and 
found that Mr P had a CCJ recorded against him. So, it said that it had no choice but to void 
the policy. As it explained that it wouldnt have offered cover, had the CCJ been declared. It 
said the claim would remain declined, as it believed that Mrs M and Mrs P had been reckless 
in the misrepresentation of the information they gave.
Mrs M and Mr P were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In short, she 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. She believed that it was a careless misrepresentation and thought that Ageas were 
entitled to void the policy. She also concluded that Ageas should refund Mrs M and Mr Ps 
premium from inception to the date of void.
Ageas accepted the view, Mrs M and Mr P did not. They said that they were unaware of the 
CCJ. It wasnt fair that Ageas wanted customers to check their credit files. And Ageas had 
placed a fraud marker on Mr Ps file. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. But for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I can understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mrs M and Mr P. But I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mrs M and Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they completed the online application, by indicating that Mr P had 
no CCJs recorded against him. And for this, it classed the misrepresentation as reckless. 
Mrs M and Mr P were asked several questions when they completed the application online. 
One of the questions asked was as follows: Nobody that will be insured on the policy has 
ever been declared bankrupt, served with any County Court Judgements (CCJs), Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement (IVAs) or arrangements with creditors?.  To which Mrs M and Mr P 
answered, This is true.
Despite this, Mr P said that he didnt know that there was a CCJ recorded against him, not 
least because of his health issues and having moved a few times, when the CCJ was 
issued. 
Although Mr P said he wasnt aware of the CCJ, which I find credible, consumers still have a 
duty to take reasonable care when answering questions posed by insurers. In other words, 
Mrs M and Mr P had to take steps to ensure that the answers they gave were accurate. And 
on this point, given that Mr P was aware that he had had debts, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for him to check the possibility of having a CCJ recorded against him, which he 
didnt do. 
Ageas has provided me with its underwriting criteria to show that had Mrs M and Mr P 
disclosed the CCJ, it would never have offered them any cover at all. So, applying CIDRA, 
Im satisfied that Mrs M and Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Ageas has classed Mrs M and Mr Ps misrepresentation as reckless, but having considered 
all the evidence, I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
I accept that at the time the application was completed, Mr P was suffering from extremely 
difficult personal circumstances. Yet, I am satisfied that Ageas did ask a clear question 
regarding CCJs. And under the guidelines, its for consumers to ensure that they dont 
misrepresent themselves, which is standard practice for all insurers. But Mr P explained that 
had he been aware of the CCJ, he wouldve disclosed it and I havent seen any evidence to 
dissuade me from this. Consequently, I think that Mr P was careless, rather than reckless in 
his misrepresentation. 
Ive next looked at the actions Ageas can take in accordance with CIDRA and one of the 
remedies allows for Ageas to avoid Mrs M and Mr Ps policy. Which lets it not have to deal 
with their claim following the theft. In light of this, as I think that the misrepresentation was 
careless, Ageas is able to rely on CIDRA to avoid Mrs M and Mr Ps policy. Nonetheless, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Ageas to refund Mrs M and Mr Ps premiums, from 
the date of inception (as Ageas said that it would never have offered cover) to the date the 
policy was voided. 
I understand that Ageas has agreed to do this and has refunded the premiums, which I think 
is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
Finally, Mrs M and Mr P said that Ageas had placed a fraud mark on their credit file. Ageas 
said that no such marker had been placed on their credit file. And having considered the 
evidence, I cant see any information, that indicates any fraud marker on their file, although 
there is the CCJ entry. Consequently, I dont agree that there is a fraud mark on their file, so 
there is nothing further I can ask Ageas to do here. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct Ageas Insurance Limited, as outlined below. 
My final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited has agreed to refund the premiums from the date of inception to 
the date the policy was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Ageas Insurance Limited must refund the premiums from the date of 
inception to the date the policy was voided, within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs 
M and Mr P accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman