DRN-3087380
The complaint
Mr C complains that he wasnt informed by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HL) that the process of transferring a shareholding from his investment account to 
an ISA would incur a significant loss. His wife, Mrs C, has made a similar complaint, which 
has been dealt with separately. 
   
What happened
In July 2016 Mr C arranged to bed and ISA a shareholding into a new ISA from his 
investment account with HL. As is usual with the process, this involved the sale of the shares 
in his investment account followed by a corresponding repurchase in the ISA. 
Prior to the transfer, Mr C spoke with a member of staff at HL who explained that there 
would be some costs involved in carrying out the transaction  commission on the purchase, 
potentially stamp duty and the impact of the bid/offer spread. 
Mr C went ahead with the transaction on-line. Doing so meant that he ended up with 132 
fewer shares than before the sale  to a value of £39.05, which reflected the costs as 
discussed. 
In early 2021 Mr C complained to HL that hed incurred a significant loss to the value of his 
holding. He felt the bed and breakfast process hadnt been explained to him properly and 
that it had reduced the value of his holding from around £18,000 to £9,000. He said that if 
hed been made aware of the potential for the bed and ISA to cause such a loss, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with it. 
HL didnt uphold the complaint. It explained the charges associated with the transaction and 
stressed that the fall in value of Mr Cs holding had been as a result of market movements. 
The share price had fallen significantly since hed purchased the shares in 2014. The only 
cost/loss associated with the bed and ISA process was the £39.05.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as HL. She said, in brief: 
HLs service was execution-only, meaning that it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure 
he understood the information provided to him, which had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
A member of HLs staff explained the bed and ISA process on the phone with Mr C  
how it would work and that it could be carried out by post or on-line. The 
conversation covered off the bid/offer spread and other charges. 
It was confirmed that Mr C would be able to see the value of his holding if he carried 
out the process on-line.
The value of Mr Cs shareholding dropped from around £18,000 in 2014 to around 
£5,600 in 2016, prior to the bed and ISA. 
The loss resulting from the bed and ISA was only the £39.05  the larger loss in 
value of the holding was not HLs fault or a result of the bread and breakfast process.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He stressed that he hadnt been informed that by 
proceeding with the transfer his initial investment would be detrimentally affected. He said he 
didnt understand the consequences of the process and felt that HL had a duty of care to 
ensure he was fully informed that the shares would be sold at a price so far below that which 
theyd been purchased at. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to 
me to review.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can understand Mr Cs disappointment with the fall in value of his shares. But Im unable to 
conclude that its in any way related to the bed and ISA process carried out by HL. Having 
looked at the information relating to the price of Mr Cs shares over the period from when he 
purchased them in 2014 to when the bed and ISA took place in 2016, Im satisfied the loss 
hes identified was a result of a fall in the market. 
I appreciate why he might feel that selling at around 29.50p per share when hed originally 
purchased the shares at upwards of 70p was crystallising a loss. But as part of the bed and 
ISA process the shares were immediately repurchased at 29.58p, so his overall position 
remained broadly the same, other than the slight reduction of 132 in the number of shares 
held that represented the cost of the transaction - £39.05.
In short, prior to the transfer he held 33648 shares, after it he held 33516, which shows that 
there was actually very little change in his overall position. The value of his holding of shares 
wouldve then continued to fluctuate in value as the market moved, with the possibility of 
regaining any value lost. He was, for all intents and purposes, remaining invested just as he 
was before. Although the bed and ISA process did involve a sale of the shares, it was 
immediately cancelled out by the re-purchase. It wasnt an isolated sale that crystallised a 
significant loss.  
Im satisfied HL provided Mr C with a clear explanation of the process and its related costs, 
such that he was in an informed position from which to decide on whether to proceed. While 
Mr C might not have been given a valuation of his shareholding during the call in which he 
discussed the process, it was available to him to view when he carried out the transfer. But 
in any event the only change he would have seen at time was the small reduction resulting 
from the costs of the process. The large reduction in value which forms the basis of his 
complaint was, as noted, something that had occurred during the years leading up to the 
transfer.  
In summary, Im not persuaded that HL acted incorrectly or unfairly. It informed Mr C of how 
the bed and ISA process would work and what the costs would be so that he could make a 
decision on whether to proceed. Ive not seen that there was anything unusual about the 
transaction, which was, in effect, solely an administrative process that is very commonly 
used to enable shareholders to take advantage of the tax benefits associated with holding 
their shares within an ISA.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman