DRN-2042440
The complaint
Mr T complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card that Mr T took out in July 2004. 
It was sold in store and provided protection for Mr T's account payments if he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didn't think AXA had 
made the cost and the benefits of the policy clear enough. And that, given what Mr T had 
told us about his circumstances, it was unlikely he would still have gone ahead and taken out 
the policy had AXA been clearer about things.
AXA didn't agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. I set out my reasons as follows:
AXA had to make Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and get his consent before 
adding PPI. Mr T says he didn't know that PPI had been added to his account. I've 
looked at the paperwork that was completed at the time. The store card application 
form included a separate section headed Protecting your Account" and the 
instruction "only sign this box if you require Account Cover". Mr T signed, separately 
from the main application, to confirm that he wanted it. I cant say what was 
discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I think the paperwork made it 
clear that PPI was optional and I think it would have been reasonable to expect Mr T 
to check over the document he was signing. The section about PPI was relatively 
brief, so I think Mr T would have still been able to do this, even though the card and 
PPI were taken out in a store.
So, overall, I think AXA made Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. I'm not surprised he can't remember this as it happened so long ago.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
As he could have benefited from everything the policy offered, I dont think having 
better information about these exclusions or limits would have affected his decision 
take out PPI.
Mr T told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he couldn't work due to sickness or an accident. And, also 
taking into account his savings, our adjudicator thought he didn't need the policy so 
would have declined it if he'd received clear enough information.
When we asked Mr T a bit more about his sick pay entitlement, based on publicly 
available information, Mr T said he was probably mistaken. He agreed that it was 
more likely he would have received two months full pay followed by two months half 
pay when he applied for the store card. And he told us that the savings figure he 
gave us was money that would be made available to him from an insurance policy in 
his parents' name. So I don't think there was any guarantee that this money would 
have been available to him if he'd needed it.
The PPI would have covered Mr T's card payments if he was unable to work due to 
sickness or an accident until he returned to work. This would have been in addition to 
any sick pay he received. It also covered him if he'd become unemployed. So I think 
it could have been a useful benefit despite his existing arrangements.
Overall, I dont think Mr T has lost out because of anything that AXA might have done
wrong.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr Ts representative said it had nothing more to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence, I find no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman