DRN-3763898
The complaint
Miss P complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) that it didnt 
treat her fairly when she didnt meet her final payment under a hire purchase agreement 
and it issued charges on collection of the car.
What happened
MBFS entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car with Miss P in June 2016. 
The cash price of the car was £30,674 and the total amount owing under the agreement 
(including interest and fees) came to £35,374. Miss P paid a deposit of £4,000 and the 
remainder was to be paid in 48 monthly instalments of £304 with an optional final 
payment (balloon payment) of £16,750 and a £10 fee for exercising this option (all 
figures rounded).
Miss P met all her repayments up to and including May 2020. Her final monthly payment 
was due to be taken on the 24 June 2020. The direct debit for this was rejected along with 
the optional final payment request. Miss P says that the payments were rejected as she 
didnt have enough money in her account to cover this amount.
Miss P says she wanted to discuss her end of agreement options but had been unable to 
get through to MBFS either by phone or email. She says she emailed to request a 
payment holiday and told MBFS that she wished to refinance her agreement or return the 
car and take out a new lease. However, when it was possible to visit a garage she was 
told that it was too late to qualify for a refinance agreement and that the rejected payments 
had had a negative impact on her credit file. She was advised to pay a settlement fee of 
£300 and to return the car in good condition. Miss P says she paid for repairs and MBFS 
collected the car in January 2021.
MBFS has provided inspection reports dated the 4 and 6 January 2021 which list various 
items which needed repair or replacement. These included a cracked windscreen, 
damage to the bumpers and a scratched seat back. It estimated that the cost of repairing 
or replacing these items amounted to £737.88 and said it required Miss P to pay this as 
set out in the Vehicle Returns Standards information which accompanied the agreement.
MBFS also charged Miss P for the use of the car from 24 June 2020 to 4 January 2021 at 
a rate of £10.14 per day plus VAT for 192 days, amounting to £2,360.59. It levied a 
charge for the miles driven above the limit of 40,000 set out in the agreement at a rate of 
£0.07 per mile, amounting to £363.55. It confirmed in its final response letter to Miss P 
that she owes a total of £3,462.02.
Miss P complained to MBFS in February 2021 because she disputed these charges. 
MBFS didnt uphold her complaint and said in its final response to her in March 2021 that 
the charges had been correctly applied.
Miss P brought her complaint to us in July 2021 and one of our investigators looked into 
it. They found that MBFS had correctly applied the damages and additional car hire 
charges, but not the mileage charge. They recommended that MBFS waive the mileage 
charge but not that it amend Miss Ps credit file.
MBFS agreed with this recommendation but Miss P didnt and asked for her complaint 
to come to an ombudsman to resolve. I sent out a provisional decision on 21 
September 2021 explaining why I thought Miss Ps complaint should be upheld in part 
and setting out my proposals for what MBFS  needed to do to put things right for her. 
This is my final decision and will be legally binding if Miss P accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the matter again and having no new information to consider, I see no 
need to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons for upholding Miss 
Ps complaint in part again in this final decision.
As Id said in my provisional decision, when considering this matter Ive taken into account 
the law and relevant regulatory rules. These include, for example, the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which sets out its regulations and 
guidance for lenders such as MBFS about what should happen before and during credit 
agreements.
All guidance is available on the FCAs website so I wont set it out in detail here. In 
summary, MBFSs overarching obligations were, and are, to:
Pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them fairly.
Pay due regard to their customers information needs and communicate 
information in a way that is clear, fair, and not mis-leading.
Ive also borne in mind more recent guidance issued by the FCA from April 2020 which set 
out how it expected businesses to provide exceptional and immediate support to 
customers in motor finance agreements facing temporary payment difficulties because of 
coronavirus.
Ive quoted some sections of this below as I think these are particularly relevant to this case.
Firms should make it as easy as possible for their customers to contact them both 
online and by phone Where customers have been unable to reach timely agreement 
with firms for a payment deferral because of firms operational difficulties and 
subsequently miss a payment which is reported to their credit file, or where they have 
entered into a similar temporary payment deferral arrangement with their lender as a 
result of the coronavirus situation which has resulted in a worsening arrears status being 
reported, we would expect firms to work with customers and Credit Reference Agencies 
to ensure that any necessary rectifications are made to credit files to ensure no 
worsening arrears status is recorded during the payment deferral period. Firms should 
also ensure no default or arrears charges are levied in relation to payments missed in 
these circumstances.
There is no expectation under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each 
customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or 
whether this is not in the customers interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the 
enquiries they consider necessary in order to satisfy themselves that the customer is 
eligible for support and to identify whether the customer would benefit from any additional 
support, provided that this does not delay the provision of timely support.Where the customer has the right to use the vehicle, firms should not take steps to 
terminate the agreement or seek to repossess the vehicle (whether by way of any 
requisite legal proceedings or otherwise) where the customer is experiencing temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus and needs use of 
the vehicle. We consider that seeking to terminate the agreement or commencing or 
continuing repossession action as described above is very likely to contravene Principle 
6 - absent exceptional circumstances (such as a customer requesting that repossession 
continues).
Bearing all this in mind, I think the main questions I need to consider are did MBFS treat 
Miss P fairly in its dealings with her, for example when she told it she was having 
payment problems due to the pandemic and asked for help? Did MBFS provide Miss P 
with clear, fair and not misleading information and, ultimately, did it pay due regard to her 
interests and treat her fairly?
What happened
Our investigator set out in detail what happened after Miss P took out the agreement in 
their view to both parties. Neither party has disagreed with this account so I dont think the 
events themselves are in dispute. MBFS has provided further information since then, 
including a statement of account and a record of contact with Miss P. Ill begin with a 
summary of events as I understand them based on information both parties have provided 
so its clear what Ive relied on.
Miss P told us that she had made attempts to get in touch with MBFS prior to the end of 
her contract in June 2020 to discuss what to do next however shed spent nearly four 
hours collectively trying to get through to its customer services to no avail. She says her 
intention at this time was to refinance the balloon payment and keep the car.
Miss P provided a record of text messages sent to the selling dealership in response to a 
letter from MBFS about the impending end of her contract. These were dated 11, 16 and 
19 June and the last exchange shows the dealership provided a telephone number for 
Miss P in response to her request for advice regarding refinancing her agreement.
Miss P also provided copies of email exchanges between her and MBFS around that 
time. She emailed MBFS on 23 June 2020 to say:
My contract is due to end tomorrow, I did email previously after struggling to get through 
via telephone, I'm contacting you urgently today for your assistance.
I do not currently have the funds to cover the balloon payment. I work in a [ - ] which was 
one of the first establishments to close due to the virus. And while I have managed to 
make the last few months payments on my agreement I am asking for a further few 
months payment holiday and extension to my contract in order to let me recuperate from 
the financial difficulties I've experienced over the last few months. Hopefully this will also 
give me to opportunity to evaluate how to proceed with my current financial agreement 
with Mercedes, whether I can refinance the balloon payment or start a new lease and 
return the car to the dealership once they are back up to speed with business.
Please do not attempt to make the balloon payment as it will not go through, please 
contact me as soon as possible to let me know how to proceed.
23/06/2020 Miss Ps email was acknowledged, and she was given an expected 
timescale for a response.29/06/2020 MBFS emailed Miss P to say that it needed some information from her 
to consider her request [for a payment holiday and extension] and it 
would take 10 working days to respond.
24/07/2020 MBFS responded to Miss P to say that it couldnt grant an extension to 
her contract as she was in arrears because her payment due on 24 
June hadnt been made.
27/07/2020 Miss P responded to say that shed asked for help and explained that the 
payments had been declined as MBFS had tried to take the balloon 
payment. Miss P asked for a call back to discuss her options. She said I 
will need to take some time to assess my credit prior to any new finance 
agreement as it's probable that your attempted collection of the balloon 
payment will have affected my status negatively, which I am extremely 
unsettled about. I ask you kindly to move my account out of arrears and 
please have someone contact me personally to discuss how to proceed.
06/08/2020 MBFS emailed to say that it couldnt grant a payment holiday as there 
were no payments remaining. It said I have reviewed your file and as 
your agreement has ended we would not be able to provide a payment 
holiday as there are no payments remaining. If you are unable to keep 
the vehicle at this time then we would need to arrange collection. Please 
let us know how you wish to continue?
17/08/2020 Miss P explained that she didnt want to extend her contract but 
refinance. Many thanks for getting in touch, yes I am able to keep the 
car for now. I would like to know my options with regards to either 
refinancing my current car or returning it and taking out a new lease.
09/09/2020 MBFS told Miss P that she could extend her contract for 1, 2 or 3 
months. It said You are able to extend your agreement for 1,2 or a 3 
month period. If you are interested in extending your agreement 
please email [ - ] with how long you would like to extend for.
09/09/2020 Miss P said again that she didnt want to extend but refinance: Thank 
you for your email, I do not wish to extend my current agreement, I 
would like to either refinance my car for a lower monthly outgoing or look 
into a new car/lease agreement. Can you please let me know how to 
proceed.
15/09/2020 MBFS explained that it couldnt give a refinance quote outside of 30 
days of the agreement end and in order to do so it would need to 
extend agreement by 4 months. It said  We can provide you with a 
refinancing quote as requested, this would turn your current PCP 
agreement into a Hire Purchase contract. We would divide your balloon 
payment over a term of 24 or 36 months, at the end of this new contract 
you would then own the vehicle outright. There will be interest added on 
to the monthly costs when the refinancing quote is generated. 
Unfortunately we do require at least 30 days remaining on a contract to 
be able to raise a refinancing quote, so if you would like to explore this 
potential option we would need to extend your agreement by 4 months. 
As you agreement ended on the 24/06/2020. Once processed we can 
pass you on to our refinancing team who will carry out the necessary 
checks to make sure your product is eligible.15/09/2020 MBFS reactivated Miss Ps account to generate an extension quote, 
which was a new monthly rental of £319.37.
16/09/2020 MBFS sent Miss P the above quote. The customer notes record that 
she had no bounced or late payments showing on her account.
28/09/2020 MBFS sent Miss P a follow-up reminder to the above. It said If you are 
still looking to extend the agreement with us please sign and send back 
your extension quote so we can get this processed for you. If you are no 
longer looking to extend your agreement with us please contact our 
collection agents [-] on [-]. [-] will then be able to book you in for your 
vehicle to be inspection & collected.
29/09/2020 Miss P replied with questions. She said  with an extension to my 
agreement would the monthly payments reduce? Also what are the 
options regarding refinancing the balloon payment so I own the car at 
the end of the payment schedule. I'm just trying to weigh up my options 
on what would best financially. Would I be better off getting a new 
lease? Would somebody call me to explain my options as I don't want to 
continue to pay the previous rate for a car that is now 4 years old. But I 
don't want to give the car back without securing a new lease.
09/10/2020 MBFS called Miss P to discuss her options. The customer note records 
that Miss P was unlikely to extend her current agreement and was 
thinking of maybe getting a second-hand car. It advised her that there 
were good deals available on new cars with higher retail values. It 
noted that Miss P didnt have equity in the car so she would probably 
return it, and that she would notify it the following week about what she 
would like to do.
Miss P told us When I eventually managed to speak to someone they advised me to visit 
a [-] garage to discuss my options. I had received letters from [-] asking to arrange 
collection/return of the vehicle however garages weren't open. I finally visited a garage 
once restrictions eased and they told me that I was too late to qualify for a refinance 
agreement, and that the attempted balloon payment had a negative impact on my credit.
03/12/2020 Miss P called to request refinance or look at other options. MBFS noted that
she was put on hold while her call was transferred to the collections
16/12/2020department but the call was disconnected.
Miss P called to arrange collection of the car.
Let me say at this point that I dont have complete information about what happened. For 
example, I am not clear exactly what happened regarding Miss Ps request to refinance 
her outstanding debt. Miss P says that she was told by MBFS that it was too late to 
refinance her debt and that her creditworthiness had been impacted negatively by its 
attempt to collect the balloon payment. MBFS hasnt confirmed to us that Miss Ps 
refinance request was declined, or why, and I dont know if it has been made clear to her.
I also dont know whether Miss P missed her final monthly payment, or just the balloon 
payment. MBFS sent us a statement of account and I can see from this that two payment 
requests were made on the 24 June, one for £10 and the other for £17,054.43. These are 
followed by two reversals, one for £10 and the other for £16,750, the difference being
£304.43. This seems to support what Miss P said about making the final monthly payment 
but not the balloon payment, however the statement also shows that two payments were made (£100 in December 2020 and £204.43 in January 2021) which brought the account 
up to date.
By the end of September 2020 MBFS had given Miss P the option of extending her 
agreement or returning the car. My understanding is that MBFS called Miss P on 10 
October to discuss her options with her and it was agreed that she would get in touch the 
following week to let MBFS know what she had decided to do. Im not clear why it took 
Miss P until the beginning of December 2020 to decide how she wished to proceed. It may 
be that Miss P was waiting to make up her mind about what to do with her agreement until 
she could bring the car to a garage. I dont know when Miss P visited a dealership  it 
seems likely to me that this happened in early December 2020.
My considerations
Ive started by considering what happened when Miss Ps agreement drew to an end. I am 
satisfied that she attempted to get in touch with MBFS to discuss her options prior to the 
end of the agreement and that she told it shed been impacted by the pandemic and 
needed help to decide what was best to do under the circumstances.
It seems to me that MBFSs operational difficulties prevented Miss P from receiving a 
timely response to this request for help or clear information about her refinancing options. 
I appreciate that the email Ive set out above was sent by Miss P the day before the 
balloon payment was due to be taken and it might not have been possible to cancel the 
direct debit request in time. However, I dont think MBFS acted quickly after that - as 
shown by the email trail, it seems Miss P didnt have an answer to her request for a 
refinance until the 15 September, some 12 weeks later, which was then discussed with 
her over the phone on 10 October 2020. I can understand why that delay might have 
happened, given how businesses were impacted by the pandemic. However I dont think 
MBFS mitigated the impact of this lack of immediate response by providing exceptional 
or flexible support to Miss P.
I think MBFS could have acted in line with the regulators guidance here and deferred 
the final balloon payment (or indeed the final monthly payment) until Miss Ps request for 
a refinance or new agreement could be fully considered. As per the guidance, where a 
timely agreement hasnt been reached and a customer subsequently misses a payment, 
the business should ensure no default or arrears charges are levied in relation to 
payments missed in these circumstances. I am unclear as to when Miss P made her final 
monthly payment but irrespective of this, if MBFS reported adverse information about 
Miss Ps account to the credit reference agencies about missed payments after 24 June 
2020 then it needs to amend this.
It follows that, if MBFS did base its decision to refuse Miss P a refinance solely because 
any negative information it reported or the length of time it took to consider this option 
following the end of the agreement, then it should not have done so. As Ive explained, I 
dont have clear information about what happened here. Assuming everything had gone 
as it should have, Miss P might not have been offered a refinance. A businesss lending 
decisions are based on a number of factors and there may have been other 
considerations involved in any refinance decision which would have resulted in a decline. 
Its also not clear to me whether Miss P would have taken up such an offer. Altogether, I 
havent found that MBFS treated Miss P unfairly when it declined to refinance her 
outstanding balloon payment at this time.
MBFS told Miss P in its final response to her complaint that she incurred charges for 
additional days car hire as shed used the car beyond the maturation date of her 
agreement. Miss P told us that she didnt want to hire the car for any longer than her initial agreement  she wanted to refinance it or return it.
I understand that Miss P wasnt given an answer to her refinance request until 15 
September 2020. Miss P was informed then that her agreement had ended on 24 June 
2020 and that an extension to the existing agreement was a necessary step in providing 
her with a refinance option. MBFS then contacted Miss P on 10 October to discuss her 
situation. From the available information, it seems to me that Miss P wasnt responsible 
for the delay between her asking for help and MBFSs call on 10 October to discuss her 
options.
Miss P didnt tell MBFS how she wished to proceed until 3 December. The car wasnt 
collected until early January 2021. I dont think that the delay between being given these 
options and the return of the car in early January was entirely down to Miss P but was 
made worse by the impact of the pandemic on car dealerships. There was a national 
lockdown in place from 5 November 2020 and the government had been reimposing 
restrictions from 14 September, so its understandable that it might have been more 
difficult than usual to visit a garage during this time. Nevertheless, by 10 October Miss P 
had been fully informed about her options and it was over to her then to decide whether 
to accept an extension to her agreement or not.
Miss P had the use of the car for six months after the end of her agreement so I think 
she should incur some cost for this. However, I dont think its fair that she pays a full six 
months car rentals (July to December 2020) and it would be more appropriate in this 
case for Miss P to make three months payments. And, while I appreciate Miss P drove 
the car a further 4,382 miles after 24 June, this doesnt seem to me to be excessive use, 
given that the allowed mileage under the agreement had been 10,000 a year. So I dont 
think Miss P should be charged for additional mileage.
Miss P has disputed the damage charges of £737.88. As set out in MBFSs final 
response letter, these charges are:
Back seat cover rear centre - Scratched - Replace - £36.82
Bumper rear - Scratched - Refinish - £210.00
Bumper front - Scratched - Refinish - £210.00
Screen front - Cracked - Replace - £281.06
The Vehicle Returns Standards guidance supplied with the agreement states that 
acceptable wear and tear includes bumper scuff marks up to 50mm which dont adversely 
affect the overall appearance of the car and normal wear and tear to the interior, including 
carpets, trim, upholstery etc. Chips on the windscreen are acceptable as long as they are 
less than 5mm, no more than two, and not obscuring the drivers vision. Notwithstanding a 
degree of subjectivity around these items, the photos MBFS has provided along with the 
inspection reports do seem to show that this damage is outside of the acceptable wear 
and tear as defined by the guidance.
Ive found that MBFS didnt treat Miss P fairly when it didnt offer her a payment deferral, 
reported adverse information on her credit file (if it did so) and didnt give her clear 
information about her options in a timely manner. I think that Mis P suffered distress and 
inconvenience when this happened. Miss P told us that she feels she was left with bad 
credit at a time when she was already financially struggling. She says she is now being 
chased by debt collectors attempting to recover this debt from her on behalf of MBFS, and 
that the matter is continuing to cause her severe anxiety.
As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up to £750 might be fair where the 
impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over weeks or months. I think 
that an award in this range would be appropriate here. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss P, MBFS needs to:
Waive the additional days and the additional mileage charges; and 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from 24 June 2020 
from Miss Ps credit file; and 
Pay Miss P an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused to her.
MBFS can consider that Miss P owes:
three months additional rental charges at £319.17 a month; and
damages charges at the level set out in the report, in other words £737.88.
I would remind MBFS of its continuing obligation to treat Miss P fairly and with due 
consideration. This might involve agreeing an affordable repayment plan with her for the 
above charges.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint about Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited in part and it now needs to take the above steps to put things 
right for her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman