DRN-2909115
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One lent irresponsibly when
it approved two credit cards in his name.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr B applied for a Capital One credit card (card 1). Mr B told Capital One he
was employed and earned £15,000 a year. Capital One carried out a credit check and found
an unsecured loan with a balance of around £1,000. Mr B has sent us a credit report that
shows he also had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) in 2015 and a defaulted credit card in
June 2015. Capital One says the application met its lending criteria and approved a credit
limit of £200.
In May 2018, Mr B exceeded his credit limit. In November 2018 Mr Bs payment was late and
the credit limit was again exceeded in February 2019. In all cases, the account was brought
back within the agreed limits and payments made up.
In April 2019 Mr B applied for another credit card with Capital One (card 2). The application
said Mr B now earned £20,000 a year. Capital One completed a credit check and found Mr
Bs unsecured credit with other lenders had increased. The application data shows Capital
One found Mr B had opened around nine new credit commitments since his previous
application. And the credit check showed Mr B owed around £18,000.
Capital One says the application met its lending criteria and it approved a £300 credit limit.
In May 2019 Mr B made a payment to Capital One for card 2. Capital One says that was the
last payment Mr B made to card 2. The account was ultimately terminated and a default
reported on Mr Bs credit file. Card 1 hasnt been closed and defaulted but Capital One took
the decision to restrict new spending in November 2019 following a number of late
payments.
Mr B complained that Capital One had lent irresponsibly. Mr B also complained that Capital
One had closed and defaulted card 2. Capital One didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and he
referred it to this service. An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint, but thought Capital One
had dealt with it fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. In response to the investigator, Mr
B said he accepted that the decision to approve card 1 was reasonable but wanted Capital
One to refund the interest and charges hed paid for card 2 and remove the adverse
information reported on his credit file. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a lender offers credit it should carry out proportionate checks to ensure maintaining
the debt is sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to
complete, but we would generally expect it to consider various factors, including the type of 
credit, term and applicants circumstances, when deciding how to proceed. In this case, 
Capital One approved two credit cards for Mr B so Ill look at each application in turn.
When Mr B applied for card 1 he told Capital One he was employed and earning £15,000.
Mr B also said he was living with parents. Capital One looked at Mr Bs credit file and found
he had one credit commitment of around £1,000 at the time. I can see Mr Bs credit report
shows he also had a CCJ and default from 2015, but that information doesnt appear to have
shown on the credit check Capital One completed. And Capital One has confirmed that, as a
second chance lender it does accept a degree of adverse credit when considering
applications.
Capital One approved a reasonably modest credit limit of £200. Taking all the available
information into account, Im satisfied Capital One did carry out proportionate checks before
deciding to approve Mr Bs credit file. I havent found Capital One lent irresponsibly when it
approved card 1.
However, Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning card 2. Like Mr B, I
think Capital One lent irresponsibly. When Mr B applied for card 2 he gave an increased
income of £20,000 and was living with parents. Capital One carried out another credit check.
The application data shows Capital One found Mr Bs unsecured borrowing increased
substantially between March 2018, when he owed around £1,000, to April 2019, when he
owed around £18,000.
The credit data also shows Mr B had a default and several pay day loans, including one that
had an active payment plan. Capital One has also told us that card 1s credit limit had been
exceeded twice and that he had late payment in the months after it was opened.
Taking all of the information Capital One had available when it looked at Mr Bs application
for card 2 into account, Im not persuaded it carried out proportionate checks. I think it
shouldve looked more closely at Mr Bs circumstances before deciding whether to proceed.
As Ive said above, we cant tell a business when checks it should complete when assessing
an application. But lenders will often look at verifying income or obtaining bank statements if
they want to look more closely at an application. In this case, Mr B has sent us a copy of his
bank statements for the period in question. Ive focused on the three months before card 2
was approved.
During this period, Mr Bs income matched the information he gave in the application. But,
the bank statements show clear indications that Mr B was struggling to maintain his
finances. There are regular deposits from payday lenders and a substantial level of bank
charges. In addition, there were signs Mr B was using his account to gamble at a reasonably
high level. Had Capital One looked at Mr Bs statements, for instance, it wouldve seen he
was both borrowing from payday lenders and gambling at the same time.
In my view, had Capital One carried out proportionate checks that looked more closely at Mr
Bs circumstances it wouldnt have approved card 2. Based on the information Ive seen so
far, I agree with Mr B that Capital One lent irresponsibly in this case. As a result, I intend to
tell Capital One to refund all interest and charges applied to card 2 from inception. The
refund should be used to reduced any outstanding balance. If theres a surplus, it should be
refunded to Mr B.As I think Capital One lent irresponsibly when it approved card 2 I dont think its fair for it to
report adverse information about it to the credit reference agencies. So I also intend to tell
Capital One to remove all adverse information reported about card 2 from inception.
If Capital One has sold the debt it should take steps to ensure the refund is applied and no
adverse credit information is reported by the new owner. If necessary, Capital One should
consider recalling the debt to ensure the settlement can be put in place.  
In my provisional decision I asked Mr B and Capital One to respond with any additional 
information or points they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Neither 
party responded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded with new information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think this complaint 
should be upheld, for the same reasons.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) to settle as 
follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied to card 2 since inception
- Amend Mr Bs credit file to remove all adverse information reported about card 2  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman