DRN-2934562
The complaint
Mr A complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) didnt 
make the policy limits clear on his pet insurance policy. He also complains he was given 
incorrect information about the policy limit and hes unhappy about price increases at 
renewal. 
What happened
Mr A says his dog was referred to an eye specialist and was prescribed medication and a 
follow-up consultation was arranged. Mr A submitted a claim for the initial consultation on 29 
July 2019 but this was initially declined on the basis it related to a pre-existing condition.    
Mr A says he challenged this and the claim was then paid in November 2019. Mr A says he 
was unable to attend the follow-up consultation because of the delay in accepting his original 
claim, and he had also run out of the medication and was unable to afford the cost for the 
medication or consultation. Mr A continued his pet insurance through RSA but decided not to 
renew in July 2020 as he felt the premium was too high. During this call in July, Mr A spoke 
with a call handler who discussed his policy limits.  
Mr A complained to RSA and said the policy limits werent made clear when he took out the 
policy and that RSA didnt tell him that vet fees and medication for his pet dog are covered 
until the policy limit is reached irrespective of whether he remains insured with RSA. And, he 
says he was misled during the call in July and follow-up letter when he was told that his 
dogs treatment couldve continued up to the policy limit in 2019-2020. Mr A says this was 
incorrect as the claim for his dogs lipoma and eyes were made within the 2018-2019 policy 
year so the remaining amount (£922.82 for lipoma & £781.98 for eyes) couldve been used 
for his dogs treatment in addition to the 2019-2020 amount (£1,000 for each condition). 
Mr A also complained about the premium on policy renewal. He says in the policy year 2017-
2018 his dog had a cruciate ligament operation. The operation cost £1,118.18 and his 
premium for that year was £1,049.41 including £4,000 vet fees per year and no restriction 
per condition and all with a single excess cost with no limit on the amount RSA would pay 
per condition per year. Mr A says his quote for the following year 2018-2019 was £2,237.03 
which meant RSA had increased his premium in order to recover the cost of his dogs 
operation within a single year. Mr A says this was an increase of 113%. In addition to this, 
the policy had reduced the cover from £4,000 per condition to £1,000 per condition and 
increased the excess to £100 per condition. Mr A then went online and bought the same 
policy for £1,264.76 through RSAs website.     
RSA responded and said they understand Mr A isnt happy with the premium increase at 
renewal and about the policy having an inner limit of £1,000 per condition per year. RSA said 
the renewal quote was correct and reflects the risk to RSA at renewal and takes into account 
factors such as pet age and breed, the pets claims experience, and the average vet bills in 
Mr As area. 
RSA said they could see Mr A had made a claim for his dog and a pet with a claim is more at 
risk of needing further treatment for future conditions, so this increased risk will be reflected 
in the new renewal premium. RSA said they understand Mr A would like a more detailed 
breakdown of how they calculate a premium however this information is commercially 
sensitive. RSA said premiums will continue to increase as pets get older but the level of 
increase will depend on RSAs view of the risk that is presented to them at each renewal. 
In relation to the inner limit of £1,000, RSA said this limit was on the policy from inception. 
They said the website makes it clear that the policy provides cover for £4,000 with an inner 
limit of £1,000 per condition. RSA didnt uphold the complaint but did understand how the 
premiums mightve come as a surprise to Mr A, so they apologised for any upset caused and 
sent Mr A £100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought RSA hadnt acted unreasonably but 
felt they had fairly compensated Mr A for any upset caused by the premium increase. Mr A 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided RSAs offer is reasonable in the circumstances, so I think the 
investigators recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Not informing Mr A about the policy limits 
I note Mr A says his policy started in 2017  and possibly before that. He says he paid a 
premium of £1,049.41 at this point and this gave him a total limit of £4,000 per year but there 
was no restriction per condition and the policy only required a single excess payment. Mr A 
says he then received a renewal quote for £2,237.03 for the policy year 2018-2019. Mr A 
says he then went online on RSAs website and bought the same policy for £1,264.76. And, 
this provided the same level of cover in the amount of £4,000. Mr A says its not 
unreasonable that a customer, when selecting the same policy to the year before, would 
notice a new limitation of £1,000 per condition and also an excess payable per condition. I 
do understand Mr As concern here and why he feels its unfair that a policy, where hes had 
to pay a higher premium than the year before, comes with additional limitations. So, Ive 
looked at how this information was presented to Mr A.        
I havent seen details of Mr As 2017-2018 policy or what cover it provided. Its clear though 
that Mr A, not being happy with the renewal terms, decided to purchase a new policy from 
RSA in July 2018. RSA have provided a screenshot of the sales journey and a page which 
they say Mr A wouldve seen when choosing what type of policy he wanted to take out. This 
gives two options, a Classic (maximum benefit) policy or a Premier (lifetime) policy. 
Mr A chose the Premier option and this section describes this as Help paying vet bills for 
short-term and ongoing treatment until the vet fee limits are used up each year. And, You 
can continue to claim for the same or new treatment each year, as the vet fee limits reinstate 
every time you renew. Theres then a section which asks the customer to choose an option 
for the vet fees limit. This gives two options; an annual limit of £4,000 with a limit of £1,000 
per condition or an annual limit of £12,000 with a limit of £4,000 per condition. Mr A chooses 
the annual limit of £4,000 with a £1,000 maximum limit per accident or illness. So, I dont 
agree this information wasnt made clear. 
As mentioned above, I havent seen Mr As 2017-2018 policy so I cant say whether this 
included an inner limit. But, even if it didnt, its clear Mr A bought a new policy in July 2018 
and not a renewal on the same terms. And, while he mightve been under the impression 
that the same Premier policy with the same annual limit of £4,000 would again not include an inner limit, I cant say RSA have made an error here. The screenshot of the sales journey 
does, in my view, make it clear there is an inner limit.  
Mr As claim not being considered 
I can see from information provided by RSA they settle a claim for £218.02 in November 
2019 for an eye condition. Mr A says when he spoke with RSA in July 2020 to cancel his 
policy, he mentioned his dog still had problems with his eye. So, due to the time which had 
now passed since the initial consultation in 2019, Mr As dog would now require another 
consultation and possibly a follow-up consultation and medication. Mr A says RSA should 
cover the fees for this even though he has cancelled his policy as its a continuation of the 
problem first identified in 2019  while he was on cover.  Mr A says the claim for the eye 
condition was diagnosed in May 2019 so it should fall within the 2018-2019 policy year. And 
so, this would leave him with approximately £780 remaining from that policy year and £1,000 
remaining from the 2019-2020 policy year. Mr A says this should still be available to him for 
treatment.  
I do understand Mr As point but I dont agree this is how his policy works. Under a lifetime 
policy, a pet will be covered for any conditions they develop for the rest of their lives  as 
long as the policy continues. The pet is usually covered up to a set amount each year, until 
the policy limit is reached, and when the policy renews, the full limit becomes available 
again. So, I agree with Mr A that he had approximately £780 of his limit remaining from the 
policy year in which this amount was deducted. But, cover is only available if Mr A renews 
his policy. The terms and conditions of Mr As policy says, under the section What is not 
covered, any treatment costs incurred after the period of insurance has expired, unless 
you and we have agreed to further periods of insurance.
It's not in dispute that Mr A decided not to renew his policy in July 2020, so this effectively 
brought an end to his policy from 31 July 2020. I think the terms and conditions do make it 
clear that any claims Mr A makes for treatment costs incurred after 31 July 2020 wont be 
covered. I do acknowledge Mr As point about there being continuity of the problem which 
was first diagnosed in May 2019, but the fact is the claim Mr A wishes to make would be for 
treatment costs incurred after his policy with RSA has ended. Theres no provision in the 
terms and conditions which allow a customer to use remaining amounts from a previous 
policy year for treatment costs they wish to incur after the policy has ended. So, I dont think 
RSA have acted unfairly here by saying they would decline to meet any claim for treatment 
costs Mr A wanted to incur after his policy ended. 
I note Mr A says RSA initially declined his claim for his dogs eye condition and it then took 
several communications and support from the vet for RSA to then settle the claim. Mr A says 
the impact of this was that his dog then missed the follow-up consultation and further 
medication. I understand Mr As reasons for not going ahead with the original follow-up 
consultation, particularly as there was a risk RSA might not meet this claim for the very same 
reason they initially declined the claim for the first consultation. But, this claim was then 
settled at the end of November 2019 so it still gave Mr A eight months before his policy was 
due to expire to arrange any further treatment. So, I think Mr A was left with sufficient time to 
arrange any further treatment while he was still on cover.    
Incorrect information 
I think what Mr A is complaining about here is information he says he was given during the 
phone call with RSA in July 2020. Mr A says the call handler told him that he couldve claimed from the remaining limit from his 2019-2020 policy. It appears the call handler was 
of the understanding that the claim paid in November 2019 falls within the 2019-2020 policy 
year. Mr A feels this is incorrect as he feels the claim for his dogs eye should be deducted 
from the 2018-2019 limit because the treatment was in that policy year. So, he says he 
shouldve been told that he was entitled to claim from the remaining funds from the 2018-
2019 policy year as well as the full limit of £1,000 for the 2019-2020 policy year. I dont have 
a recording of the call but I think theres enough here in Mr As testimony for me to decide 
this part of the complaint. 
Firstly, I think Mr As interpretation of the policy year is correct. As Ive mentioned above, 
RSA say they wont cover treatment costs incurred after the policy has expired. The 
determining factor appears to be the date the treatment costs are incurred rather than when 
a claim is submitted. So, if the consultation for Mr As dog was 29 July 2019, then it would 
appear this falls within the 2018-2019 policy year. So, while the information given to Mr A 
might not have been accurate, I cant see this has had any impact. Ultimately, Mr A hasnt 
made a claim  and cant do so now  so I dont think it matters which policy year the claim 
payment in November 2019 has been deducted from. 
I understand Mr A feels a combined amount of approximately £1,780 hasnt been used in 
relation to his dogs eye condition. It appears that around £780 was still available for this 
condition for any treatment costs incurred within the 2018-2019 policy year and the £1,000 
limit was then reinstated at the start of the 2019-2020 policy year. So, essentially, this means 
there was a combined amount of approximately £1,780 unused by Mr A for his dogs eye 
condition. While this amount might well have been available had Mr A used those limits in 
the relevant policy years, they wont be available for any treatment costs incurred outside of 
the specified policy year. I understand Mr A feels RSA should honour the terms of the policy 
by making the £1,780 available to him and he says RSA made an error in not explaining this 
to him during the call in July. While I understand Mr A feels this is a continuation of the same 
condition, as Ive explained above, the terms and conditions do make the position clear in 
relation to claims which wont be covered by RSA. So, I dont think RSA made an error here 
in not saying Mr A had a combined £1,780 available. 
Premium at renewal 
Mr A says he took out a policy with RSA in 2017 for a premium of £1,049.41. He says his 
dog had an operation in that policy year which cost £1,118.18. Mr A says he then received a 
renewal quote for policy year 2018-2019 for £2,237.03 which means RSA had increased his 
premium in order to recover the cost of his dogs operation within a single year. Mr A says 
this was an increase of more than double what he had paid the year before. I do 
acknowledge this is a significant increase but Mr A didnt take up this renewal and decided to 
take out a new policy online which cost £1,264.76. Mr A says this is still a 20% increase but 
feels its particularly unfair as RSA reduced their own risk by 75% by lowering the limit per 
condition from £4,000 to £1,000. 
RSA have provided information which shows Mr As premium in the policy year 2018-2019 
was £1,264.76. For the policy year 2019-2020 it was £1,559.03 and for 2020-2021 it was 
£1,622.01. I agree the premium has increased each year but, because these policies are 
more comprehensive than other types of pet insurance, they can be expensive. With the 
type of lifetime policy that Mr A purchased, the usual benefit of this type of policy is that itll 
continue to cover any medical conditions that were claimed for since policy inception (so 
long as the premiums continue to be paid). 
However, its also not uncommon that the cost each year after policy inception can increase. 
This can be due to a number of factors including, but not limited to; the age of the pet, claims 
made or any conditions developed. I think its important to stress, its not the role of our service to dictate how businesses view 
risk or the insurance premiums they charge. I also dont have the power to tell a business 
what their insurance should cost or how they should calculate the risk they are insuring. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr As policy was too high or he shouldve been charged less for the 
policy. 
I do find that Mr As policy premium increased by a lot more than he had expected. RSA 
themselves have said this in response to the complaint and acknowledge how the premiums 
may have come as a surprise to Mr A. So, its not in dispute that the information given (about 
the likely longer-term costs increases) wasnt as clear as it shouldve been when Mr A took 
this policy out in 2018. 
So, Ive gone on to look at what Mr A likely wouldve done differently if he had been given 
clear information in 2018. Ive looked at the facts and then Ive made a judgement call based 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what Mr A more likely than not wouldve done - not 
what Mr A definitely wouldve done - as nobody can safely say that given the passage of 
time. Had Mr A been given clearer information about the lifetime policy, I think hed have 
been left with the options of: 
not taking the policy at all; or 
going ahead and taking the policy out; or 
taking a (likely cheaper) standard policy offering less cover; or 
taking the same type of lifetime policy with a different insurer. 
Mr A says, following the renewal quote in 2018, he decided to take out the same policy with 
RSA online. And, given the description of the 2017-2018 policy, it appears this was also a 
lifetime policy. So, I think Mr A, when taking out the policy for 2018-2019, wouldve been 
aware, from the 2018 renewal quote, that a policy of this type can significantly increase each 
year. Despite this, Mr A again chose to take out a lifetime policy for 2018-2019. This 
suggests to me that he had a greater interest in the higher level of cover it provided and 
also, as Mr A accepts, other insurers might not have offered a policy for pre-existing 
conditions. Ive also considered that he may well have decided to take out a lifetime policy 
with a different insurer from the start. But its impossible for me to know what other policy   
Mr A would have ended up with  it might well have been cheaper, but it could also have 
been more expensive. 
Overall, on balance, I find that its unlikely better information about the possible future costs 
of this policy would have resulted in Mr A not taking out this lifetime cover policy. 
Looking at the impact on Mr A, he did make two claims on this policy so I think hed have 
reasonably expected that there may be some price increase as a result. That said, RSA 
have already recognised the overall increase may have caused Mr A upset and 
inconvenience and offered him £100. I consider that fair, reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and I dont make any further award.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome and I acknowledge he is concerned about 
the pricing structure used by insurers. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying 
to informally resolve his dispute with RSA  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>ns offer to 
pay Mr A £100 compensation is fair and reasonable. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n should pay Mr A £100 if it hasnt 
already. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman