DRN-4137160
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy AWP P&C SA declined cover for his claim. 
What happened
Mr R has a travel insurance policy under underwritten by AWP P & C SA.  He booked a 
return trip abroad. 
He went on holiday, but unfortunately was unable to make his return flight to the UK. He was 
due to catch an internal flight to reach his departure airport to then return to the UK. But he 
was unable to do so because when he arrived at the airport for his internal flight, it was 
closed due to a broken down plane causing an obstruction on the runway. So Mr Rs flight to 
reach his departure airport was cancelled. 
Mr R made a claim on his policy with AWP for the additional cost for his new flight home on 
a later date and his extra accommodation costs. 
AWP declined the claim. They said cover under the Travel delay section of the policy only 
applies if Mr R had already arrived and checked in at his departure airport. And the claim 
couldnt be considered under Missed departure as is doesnt cover issues after arriving at 
the departure airport. 
Mr R referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and upheld the complaint. She said it was fair and reasonable for the claim to be accepted 
under the missed departure section due to public transport failings. She recommended AWP 
pay the claim for the additional costs of the flight back to the UK. And the accommodation 
cost for 10 January 2023, plus 8% simple interest. 
AWP disagreed. In summary they said there wasnt a mechanical failure of the public 
transport on which Mr R was actually travelling, so he wasnt covered under that section of 
the policy. 
cy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Under the missed departure section of the policy, it provides cover for: 
Public transport services failing to get you to your departure point due to strike, industrial 
action, adverse weather conditions, mechanical failure or direct involvement in an accident.
Aircrafts are included in the definition for public transport. 
AWP say this term is only to cover mechanical failure of the transport Mr R was actually 
travelling on. But I dont think thats clear. 
I think its reasonable to interpret that the policy provides cover if you fail to get to your 
departure point on public transport because of a mechanical failure. I dont think the policy 
term clearly states the mechanical failure only applies to the transport Mr R was actually 
travelling on. 
If it was the intention of this term to only cover the mechanical failure of transport the insured 
was, or intended to use, I would expect it to state as such. In the same way it does for an 
accident which is also listed, but here it specifically states direct involvement in an 
accident. There isnt any similar restriction placed on mechanical failure cover. 
So whilst I acknowledge the aircraft Mr R was due to use to get to his departure point didnt 
suffer any mechanical failure, Im satisfied it was due to a mechanical failure of another 
aircraft which caused his public transport to fail to get him to his departure point.
 
Mr R has provided evidence to show an aircraft was stranded in the middle of the runway, 
pending arrival of required parts and maintenance equipment. And he was told a full 
runway safety inspection will be conducted prior to the reopening of the airport. So its clear 
a mechanical fault happened at the airport which meant it closed. And this led to Mr Rs 
public transport failing to get him to his departure point  which is what I think the missed 
departure section says it will cover. As there is a lack of clarity in this term, I think its fair for 
it to be interpreted in the consumers favour and its reasonable for AWP to consider the 
claim under this section of the policy.
AWP said missed departure doesnt cover issues after arriving at the departure airport. 
But Mr R hadnt reached his departure point due to the problems with his cancelled flight. 
The cancelled flight was not a connecting flight. So Im persuaded the departure airport for 
his return journey to the UK was the airport he was unable to reach because his transport 
there was cancelled. 
On balance, I dont think it was reasonable for AWP to decline cover in this specific case. Im 
persuaded the claim should be considered under the missed departure section of the policy 
and AWP should pay the additional costs of the flight to the UK and accommodation on 10 
January. AWP doesnt need to pay for the cost of travelling to the departure airport, or the 
accommodation on 9 January as Mr R would always have needed to cover these costs. 
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA need to put things right by:
Paying the claim for the additional costs of the flight to the UK and accommodation 
on 10 January 2023. And add 8% simple interest from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman