DRN-3379551
The complaint
B complains about the incorrect information provided by Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd in 
relation to Bs business insurance policy. B says that as a result of this incorrect information, 
it suffered business interruption losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic that otherwise 
could have been covered. 
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the events rather than an exhaustive 
account. B is represented in this complaint, but for the sake of simplicity I have referred to 
the submissions as if they were Bs alone.
B operates as a dental practice. And held a business insurance policy underwritten by a third 
party I will call C. Wesleyan had sold B the policy on an advised basis in 2019. The policy 
provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. 
In late February and early March 2020, B contacted Wesleyan to confirm whether the policy 
would provide it cover in relation the COVID-19 pandemic that was developing. Ultimately, 
Wesleyan contacted C to ask whether the policy would provide cover. C told Wesleyan that it 
would provide cover if B was forced to close by a public authority. Wesleyan passed this 
information onto B and so B did not seek alternative cover. 
However, when B then came to claim for its losses, C declined the claim. B complained to 
Wesleyan that it had provided incorrect information. Wesleyan said that it had passed on the 
information given to it by C and did not uphold Bs complaint.
B referred this complaint to our Service, but our Investigator also did not think it should be 
upheld. He thought it was reasonable for Wesleyan to pass on the information provided by 
C. Comments were also made around the sale of the policy. But B has confirmed that its 
complaint does not relate to the sale itself. 
However, B remained unsatisfied in relation to the passing on of the information from C. B 
felt that, as insurance industry experts, Wesleyan should have verified the accuracy of the 
information themselves. 
As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on B, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I appreciate Bs comments that Wesleyan are a firm of insurance brokers who provided 
advice-based sales to customers such as B. As such, I agree that Wesleyan can be 
expected to have more of an understanding of the insurance industry than the average 
customer. 
However, I also think it is fair to say that Wesleyan cannot be expected to know as much 
about whether a policy will provide cover in a given set of circumstances, as the actual 
underwriter of the policy. Generally speaking, I consider it is reasonable in almost every 
circumstance for a broker to rely on the information provided by an underwriter as to whether 
a potential claim will be covered or not. 
I do note Bs comments that it should have been obvious to Wesleyan that the policy would 
not cover a COVID-19 related claim. The term in Bs policy likely to be most relevant was 
one that provided cover in relation to a specified list of diseases. And, as COVID-19 was not 
on this list, B considers it should have been apparent to Wesleyan that claims relating to this 
disease would not be covered  regardless of any information provided by C. 
However, not only do I think it generally reasonable for a broker to rely on the conclusions of 
an underwriter in circumstances such as this, but the situation in March 2020 was a rapidly 
evolving one. COVID-19 was not a disease that existed at the time the policy was drafted. 
And the term includes provision for further diseases to be added to the specified list with the 
written consent of the underwriter, C. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Wesleyan 
to raise the query with C, nor to rely on its response. 
Ultimately, whilst it is clear that Wesleyan provided B with information that was incorrect, I 
consider Wesleyan was entitled to rely on the information being correct. And I dont consider 
it would be fair or reasonable to hold Wesleyan responsible for the losses B sustained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman