DRN-1509876
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about a number of things regarding a loan secured on their 
property taken out with  Blemain Finance Limited.
What happened
On the 6 June 2008 Mr and Mrs C agreed to a secured loan for £45,000 for a term of 180 
months.
Mr and Mrs C recently complained to the business that they felt the loan was not lent 
responsibly because they believe that affordability checks were not completed prior to the 
loan being funded. They say that they were not made aware of the broker fee and 
acceptance fee They feel that the terms of their agreement in relation to repaying their loan 
early are unclear.
Since bringing the complaint to this service Mr and Mrs C have also complained about the 
arrears fees that have been levied on their account.
The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs C that there are some complaints that we cannot 
look at because they were brought to us too late. He thought this included the circumstances 
relating to the sale of the loan in 2008. Mr and Mrs C have accepted this.
The investigator also explained that we need to give the business a chance to look at a 
complaint before we look at it. So he would not be looking at the arrears fees as part of this 
complaint.
The investigator therefore looked at Mr C's understanding of the key facts document, in 
particular the early settlement of the loan. Mr C had said he had been thinking since he took 
the loan out that he would get a rebate if he paid the loan off early. He said on the loan 
agreement it reads: The Borrower has the right to repay early. The amount payable per 
£100 of the amount of credit if the borrower chooses to repay early is: After 90 Months 
£75.02; After 135 months £45.85. The way he read this clause was, say the outstanding 
amount was £10,000, then they would pay £4585.
The investigator didnt agree with Mr Cs understanding. The investigator felt that the amount 
Mr and Mrs C would have to pay was set out clearly in the key facts.
The investigator said that what this means is the amount of capital that is left to repay at that 
point. So to explain as the initial amount borrowed was £45,000, should  Mr and Mrs C have 
repaid all monthly repayments correctly and assuming there was no change in interest rates 
there would have £20,632.50 left to repay. This is worked out by dividing £45,000 by 100 
which is 450 and then that 450 is multiplied by £45.85 giving a total of £20,632.50.
He reminded the business that if  Mr and Mrs C are finding themselves in financial difficulties 
it should respond sympathetically.Mr and Mrs C disagree. They think the rebate section of the agreement is totally misleading. 
They want to know if the business still uses the same agreements.
The investigator responded to say he didn't know if the business still uses the same 
agreement but as he thought the agreement was clear this wouldn't change his mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the loan agreement carefully and what Mr and Mrs C have said they 
understood it to mean. Im afraid I dont agree with their understanding. The difference 
between Mr and Mrs C's understanding and the investigator's understanding rests on 
what the Amount of Credit means in the relevant clause.
The clause starts: The Borrower has the right to repay early. The amount payable per £100 
of the Amount of Credit if the Borrower chooses to repay early is  Some of the words in 
these two sentences start with a capital letter when you wouldnt ordinarily expect them to 
have a capital letter. This is because they are what is known as defined terms in the 
agreement. At the start of the agreement Amount of Credit is defined as £45,000.00. Mr Cs 
interpretation of the clause in question is that Amount of Credit means the outstanding 
amount at the time of the repayment. But as Amount of Credit is defined I cant agree with 
him although Im sorry that he misunderstood and has been caused disappointment. The 
agreement does include a brokers fee and recommends that Mr and Mrs C take 
independent advice. So I dont think that the business was responsible for ensuring that they 
understood the agreement they were entering into.
The clause mentioned above was also clearly marked as 'illustrative' so I think it would have 
been wise to read the agreement further to make sure it matched their understanding. The 
agreement goes on to set out in more detail (in clause 6) what exactly Mr and Mrs C would 
have to pay if they redeemed early.
Like the investigator I would also remind the business that if Mr and Mrs C are financial 
difficulties it has a responsibility to treat them sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman