DRN-3420628
The complaint
Mr I complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) has reported missed payment markers to the 
credit reference agencies which he says is inaccurate. Instead, Mr I says his credit file 
should show that he was on a payment arrangement while paying down the balance of his 
loan. 
In order to put things right, Mr I wants his credit file updated. 
What happened
The inaccurate information Mr I says is being reported on his credit file, is connected with a 
loan that he took out on 31 January 2020. He borrowed £400 to be repaid over 34 weeks, 
leading to a weekly repayment of £20. 
Mr I has had some problems repaying his loan and based on the most recent information 
from Morses, as of June 2022, Mr I owes Morses £10.
Following the inception of the loan, Mr I made his repayments until the beginning of March 
2020 when he had repayment difficulties caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement 
of account shows that payments restarted in June 2020, but Mr I reverted to paying £10 per 
fortnight.
It seems that at this time, Morses wasnt reporting any adverse credit file data to the credit 
reference agencies (CRA) possibly because it was taking on board the industry regulators 
guidance on helping people who were affected by the pandemic. 
During this time  from January  November 2020 Morses reports that Mr Is account was 0 
months in arrears. 
From December 2020, Mr Is £10 fortnightly payments continued, albeit there were 
occasions when payments appear to have been missed. Although Morses has supplied two 
statements of accounts. One has evidence of missed payments  the other doesnt. 
However, Morses reported that payments were missed, and that the account was in arrears. 
The credit file information Morses has supplied shows the following;
December 2020 - 1
January and February 2021  2
March - June 2021  3
July  September 2021  2
October 2021 to June 2022 - 1.
The number after the month and year denotes the number of months Mr Is loan account 
was in arrears. During this time, Morses was also updating the decreasing balance with the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr I complained to Morses about the missed payment markers because in his view, he says 
that these should be replaced with a marker which reflects that he was on an arrangement to 
pay. 
Morses sent its final response letter on 28 April 2021 and it told Mr I, the information it had 
reported on his credit file was accurate and it therefore wasnt going to update it. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr I referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and upheld it. She firstly, said that she thought 
Morses had treated Mr I fairly during the COVID-19 pandemic and didnt make any 
recommendation for the period between the inception of the loan and November 2020.
 
However, she said Morses told her that as Mr I was on an informal payment arrangement 
then this didnt need to be reported to the credit reference agencies. But she didnt think 
Morses had treated Mr I fairly because an informal payment arrangement was agreed from 
December 2020 and the information Morses has reported didnt reflect this  so she said a 
payment arrangement needed to be noted on Mr Is credit file. 
Mr I appears to have accepted the adjudicators proposed outcome.
 
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In summary it said;
Morses treated Mr I fairly once it was aware of the problems, he was having following 
the pandemic. 
After the end of the forbearance period, Morses reported the arrears to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). 
As Morses is a home credit provider it only offers informal arrangements and as this 
type of arrangement doesnt alter the agreement Mr I signed when he took the loan 
then the arrears will be reported to the CRAs. 
Having an informal payment arrangement to make reduced payments doesnt stop 
arrears showing on the account. 
Formal payment plans arent offered and therefore cant be recorded with the CRAs.
If Morses were to report a 0 to the CRAs this would suggest there were no arrears 
on the account, which isnt correct. 
The adjudicator went back to Morses to explain why its comments hadnt changed her mind 
about the outcome of the complaint. She, mainly reiterating that the payment arrangement 
she had recommended would show other creditors that why Mr I had some problems 
repaying the loan balance, but he did so through a payment plan. In her view, this was an 
accurate reflection of the conduct of the account. 
Morses then came back and reiterated the point that it only offers informal payment 
arrangements and therefore isnt required to report this to the CRAs. 
Later, it provided some specific points it wanted the ombudsman deciding the complaint to 
consider;
The information reported by Morses is accurate. 
It does not offer formal arrangements, and this has been agreed with the CRAs as no 
formal arrangement is in place this cant be recorded on the credit file. 
Morses made reference to some further guidance which said: 
If the customer and lender have entered into a formal agreement to reduce the monthly payment amount for a limited period of time, an A (Arrangement) flag must 
be reported on the account. Where a customer is granted a Formal arrangement to 
pay, the payment terms should be amended to the new agreed payments and the 
payment profile amended in line with that agreement. Any arrears that accrued 
against the original contract should continue to be shown by the appropriate status 
code prior to the date of the arrangement. An A flag and the arranged monthly 
payment pertinent at that particular time should accompany this status code. In 
instances where smaller payments are accepted, but no formal re-scheduling of the 
agreement is made; an A flag should not be reported. In these cases the status code 
should be based on the new agreed rate, rather than the contractual rate.
Given the above, Morses said at no point was the above agreed with Mr I and so the 
information reporting is accurate. 
The repayments over the period of time were not consistent and payments were 
missed. Therefore, even if a flag was added to show a repayment this would have to 
be removed and then re-added which could have a more detrimental impact on his 
credit file. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. After 
being allocated to me for consideration, I requested the adjudicator ask for some further 
information from Morses. 
Morses was asked about the apparent conflict between the guidance it has referred 
to CAIS 2007 compared to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 'Principles 
for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference 
Agencies'; but it said its previous explanation was sufficient. 
It re-iterates only formal payment arrangements can be reported with the CRAS.
Morses didnt reschedule Mr Is loan agreement. 
Morses says that if it added the arrangement flag it would have to show this was 
broken as Mr I didnt always make all of his repayments. In its view, a mix of arrears 
and arrangements status codes would be considered more detrimental than what is 
currently reporting. 
An updated statement of account and what information is being reported to the credit 
reference was also supplied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pandemic support
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) released guidance to lenders  such as Morses as to how they ought to deal 
with consumers who were having problems directly related to the pandemic. 
In this case, I can see, from the notes that Morses was aware of Mr Is change in financial 
circumstances was as a direct result of the COVID-19 pandemic and I can see from this time 
that Mr I was making payments as and when he could, albeit the payments he did make 
were only half the amount of his contracted loan payments. 
It then looks like from December 2020 a plan was put in place for £10 per fortnight. At this 
point, Morses started to report arrears to the CRAs as described earlier on in this decision. However, for the period up until this plan  I consider the actions of Morses to have been fair 
and reasonable and I say no more about this period. Instead this decision will focus on the 
arrears that Morses has been reported to the CRAs. 
Adverse credit file data 
Firstly, I can see from Mr Is credit file that the arrears start at 1, then increase to 2 and 3 
before returning to 1 from October 2021- present. It isnt clear to me on what basis that has 
been done. Especially as the first statement of account does show the occasional missed or 
late payment under the plan. But I cant see at any point during the summer of 2021, when 
Mr Is arrears starts to decrease because Mr I had for example made extra payments or 
increased his payments. 
Indeed, from the first statement of account, it seems from the end of July 2011, Mr Is 
payments are off sequence, in as much as they werent made in the week they shouldve 
been paid. But then Mr I makes payment the following week  and then each two weeks 
after that. 
It isnt clear, to me, given the issues with the repayments and no overpayments being made 
how the arrears increased before once again starting to decrease until the account was then 
one month in arrears and which has then been reported since November 2021. 
However, notwithstanding my concerns about the number of months in arrears the account 
was I do have to consider that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says about what 
should or shouldnt be reported. 
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies. 
It is entirely reasonably to rely on this, because when determining a complaint, amongst 
other things, I am required to take into account good industry practice and in my view, these 
principles constitute good industry practice in this area.
Ive included, what I consider to be the key passages from the guidance. A brief overview of 
the purpose of the guidance and who it is aimed at can be found towards the start when the 
guidance says;
How CRAs operate is agreed with the ICO and the purpose of this document is to set 
out the principles under which information about arrears, arrangements and defaults 
are filed with the CRAs. 
These principles will be of interest to regulators, lenders and consumers and their 
representatives. 
The principles set out in this document have been reached after extensive consultation 
with the ICO, lenders, CRAs and trade associations. Adherence to these Principles will 
be periodically reviewed in line with the credit industrys data sharing governance 
procedures.
So, its clear, from the ICO, that this guidance is to be used by everybody when looking at 
whether the information reported to the CRAs is accurate. Morses says that as a home credit provider, it isnt required to report informal arrangements 
to the CRAs but it is worth saying that the ICO guidance as currently published doesnt 
appear to provide such an opt out. The only change for home credit providers I can see is 
when the guidance says;
Whilst most credit products are repaid monthly, some are not, such as home credit. In 
these cases, the information will be adapted to meet the monthly reporting standards of 
the credit reference industry.
There is a footnote that goes with the above section which says;
Home collected credit includes informal flexibility as standard to help debtors cope with 
unexpected budget pressures. In effect, the home credit agent can - during the weekly 
home visit - agree missed or part payments on the spot (normally at no extra cost). 
These informal variations are not themselves reported. However, when the debtor has - 
in aggregate - missed to the value of 4.33 weekly repayments (equivalent to one 
months arrears), that is reported (as arrears). Only the larger home credit companies 
use the reporting agencies
This may be the part that Morses refers to, when it says that only formal payment 
arrangements need to be reporting to the CRAs. However, the above is found in principle 
two, and while it does say an informal arrangement, these are clear that they are for 
unexpected budgetary pressures. While Mr Is agent may have agreed a new payment 
variation his difficulties had been ongoing for a significant period of time. So I think its 
important to consider what principle three says. 
Principle three starts by saying:
If, due to financial difficulty, your lender agrees a reduced or revised payment with you, 
this will be reflected on your credit file.
Given what we know about Mr Is situation, it is clear, that a revised plan will be reflected on 
his credit file. So, his request for a payment arrangement marker, is in my view not 
unreasonable.
The ICO then explains the two types of arrangement. Firstly, a permanent change, which 
isnt reflected in Mr Is case, because this wouldve involved for example a new credit 
agreement and possibly a new record on Mr Is credit file. Clearly, this hasnt happened in 
this case. 
The second type is a temporary arrangement. Below, Ive quoted a lot from the guidance 
because I think its clear as to when the situation may arise and what should be report. 
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs. 
This may also occur if there is a temporary change in terms (that is not part of the 
product) such as a payment holiday or change to interest only. 
An arrangement may also be provided when a customer has agreed with the lender to 
make overpayments to clear historic arrears.
 Depending on the period and amount of the arrangement, arrears may continue to be 
reported. Such temporary arrangements may last for some time but are generally expected to revert to the contracted terms at some future point. For such accounts 
arrears may continue to be calculated in accordance with the contracted terms. 
The record must show that the account is the subject of special terms. The reporting of 
this fact may be different depending on the product and the CRA.
So, the ICO clearly sees a situation, whereby a temporary plan is agreed, and the ICO 
guidance is clear that arrears may still be reported but that Mr Is record in this case should 
reflect that he was subject to special terms. I accept the principles do provide caveat about 
the product and the CRA but there is no formal opt out, as far as I can see for home credit 
providers. 
Overall, taking into account the statement of account and the wording of the ICO principles, 
Im satisfied that Mr Is account while almost repaid (and likely at the time of this decision 
fully repaid) the ICO is clear that this account should be marked with the CRAs as being 
under special terms  such as an arrangement to pay flag / marker. 
It also, isnt clear, as far as I can see from the ICO guidance that says that Morses couldnt 
or cant report an informal arrangement. It also isnt clear how Morses view of an informal 
payment plan fits within the two types of plan that the ICO outlines.  
Therefore, thinking about the conduct of the account and the ICO guidance Im going to be 
upholding Mr Is complaint and Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put 
things right for Mr I. 
Putting things right
It is worth saying here that Mr I has asked for his credit file to accurately reflect the way in 
which he has repaid the loan. Which given the balance at the end of June is likely to have 
been satisfied in July 2022. 
I want to make it clear, that even if Morses does what Mr I says it should do, that doesnt 
guarantee any improvement in his credit score. 
Only, what Ill be asking Morses to do is to make amendments to his credit file in order to 
show that this loan was being repaid through a repayment plan and so the relevant markers 
should be added to Mr Is repayment history. 
Therefore, Morses needs to reflect that Mr Is loan was repaid a payment arrangement in its 
reporting to any CRAs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Is complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr I as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman