DRN-2461271
The complaint
Miss F complains about two loans from Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, (BL), 
which she says were unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss F was given two loans by BL from August 2016 to March 2017. Loan 1 was repaid from 
the proceeds of Loan 2. From the most recent information Ive seen (from December 2020), 
Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. A summary of Miss Fs borrowing history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Loan 
amountRepayment 
dateNumber of monthly 
repayments and amounts 
1. 31/8/2016 £3,750 7/3/2017 1 x £234.27 and 23 x 
£231.81
2. 7/3/2017 £5,000 Unpaid 1 x £160.54, 46 x £213.88 
and 1 x £214.81
Both loans were secured by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying them if   
Miss F failed to make her repayments. 
Miss F said that in 2016, she had a lot of debt and was desperate when she borrowed    
Loan 1. She couldnt get a loan anywhere else as her credit rating was very poor. She was 
struggling financially and had also started to gamble. This got out of hand. She had nowhere 
to turn and she became so desperate, she borrowed Loan 2. After this, she couldnt cope at 
all financially and ran up priority debts. She relied on family to help her, but prioritised 
payments to BL to prevent the lender contacting her guarantor.
In its final response letter, BL said that it was a responsible lender and conducted thorough 
underwriting checks on all borrowers and their guarantors before a loan was approved. 
These checks included identity, credit history, income verification and affordability. Miss Fs 
loans were no exception and would not have been granted had these checks not been met. 
BL had reviewed the underwriting of the loan agreements and was happy that sufficient 
checks were carried out and that the loans were affordable for Miss F.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that BL would have seen from its credit checks that Miss F was reliant on payday 
loans and had defaulted accounts which had not been settled. She said that BL ought to 
have carried out further checks. If BL had done so, it wouldve established that it was highly 
unlikely that Miss F wouldve been able to sustainably repay the loans. It wouldve seen that 
she wasnt managing her finances well and that it also wouldve been irresponsible to lend to 
her, due to gambling amounts.
BL disagreed and responded to say, in summary, with regard to each loan:-
Loan 1: Miss F had a total owing of £662 on her credit file and was using the BL loan to get 
out of a payday loan cycle and help manage her finances going forward. As Miss F was 
earning £2,500 per month and had only one creditor going forward with a debt of £231.81, 
she could afford to repay the loan.
Loan 2: BL noted that the investigator had said that Miss Fs borrowing had worsened in the 
six months because her debt increased from £662 to £4,058. But the increase was as a 
direct result of Loan 1. It felt that the investigators view was based on the gambling seen on 
Miss Fs bank statements. But BL wasnt required to see these as Miss Fs income was 
verified with proof for both applications and reasonable and proportionate figures were taken 
for expenditure items.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
When BL lent to Miss F, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged BL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that BL 
needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so BL had to think about whether Miss F could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Miss F undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for BL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Miss F. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a consumer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Fs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
 - Did BL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Fs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did BL make a fair lending decision? 
Did BL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Fs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
Loan 1
BL provided Miss F with Loan 1 on 31 August 2016. The interest rate was 41.16%,             
(49.9% APR). If Miss F made each payment when it was due, shed pay £5,565.90 in total.
BL gathered some information from Miss F about her income and expenses. It also carried 
out a credit check. It was also aware that Miss F had three dependents and that the loan 
was to be used for debt consolidation.
Ive reviewed BLs personal details form. This said that Miss F had a total income of £2,780 
(made up of wages and benefits), her expenditure was £1,544 and it said that her monthly 
credit commitments (including its monthly loan repayment) were £281.81. It had seen an 
extract from Miss Fs bank statement to verify her wages. BL calculated that Miss F had a 
disposable income of £954.19. 
Im concerned that BL appears to have relied on Miss Fs statement of her expenses without 
verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, I think in Miss Fs circumstances, it would have been proportionate for BL to have 
verified her actual expenditure. 
Ive also reviewed BLs credit checks. I note that these showed that Miss F had a total credit 
balance of £662 outstanding of which the outstanding loans balance was £240. The report 
showed that Miss F had five active accounts and that three accounts had been opened in 
the previous six months. I can see there were three accounts on the credit checks which had been defaulted, the 
latest of which was around 15 months prior to Miss Fs loan application. All three accounts 
still had balances outstanding. It appears that no repayments had been made on them since 
before September 2015.
I appreciate that having some historic debt isnt automatically a barrier to taking on further 
credit. But I think BL ought to have taken further steps to check that Miss F would be able to 
meet its repayments sustainably, given she wasnt potentially able to clear her existing debts 
without borrowing again. 
The credit checks also showed that Miss F had an outstanding payday loan. This had been 
taken out in July 2016 with £284 to repay. But BL would also have likely been aware from its 
credit checks that Miss F had repaid five payday loans in the seven months prior to her 
current outstanding payday loan. The second earliest loan onwards had been taken out 
within two weeks of the previous loan being repaid. This suggests that Miss F needed to 
borrow in order to fill a hole in her finances that was made by making a loan repayment 
which isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. The July 2016 payday loan was the largest of 
the six loans. So, Miss F wasnt making any inroads into her payday loan debt. I think BL 
ought to have been concerned about Miss Fs recent short term loan borrowing history and 
that the frequent use of payday loans cast doubt on the accuracy of the income and 
expenditure information provided. So, I dont think it was reasonable for BL to have relied on 
the expenditure information provided by Miss F. And I think it should have taken steps to 
independently verify Miss Fs true financial position to satisfy itself that Miss F could 
sustainably repay Loan 1 over a 24 months period. She was, after all, committing to repay 
£5,565.90 over that period. 
So overall, I dont think the checks BL had carried out before Loan 1 were reasonable and 
proportionate. BL was required to establish whether Miss F could make her loan repayments 
without undue difficulty and without experiencing adverse consequences and not just to 
ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation. It could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from 
Miss F, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more 
information about her existing credit commitments. BL didnt say that it took steps to do this, 
other than to verify Miss Fs wages. 
Although I dont think that BL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before     
Loan 1, that in itself doesn't mean that Miss Fs complaint about the loan should succeed. Id 
also need to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
shown BL that Miss F couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
Loan 2
Around six months after taking out Loan 1, BL provided Miss F with Loan 2 on                      
7 March 2017. I think BL might have been concerned about Miss Fs need to borrow again at 
that time. The loan amount had increased to £5,000 and the monthly loan repayments were 
slightly less than the repayments for the previous loan. But this was because the loan term 
had doubled. So, Miss F was making a relatively lengthy commitment to BL. The balance on 
Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and Miss F received £1,700 from the loan. 
The interest rate was 41.16%, (49.9% APR). If Miss F made each payment when it was due, 
shed pay £10,213.83 in total over 48 months.
Ive reviewed BLs personal details form. This said that Miss F had a total income of £3,029 
(made up of wages and benefits), her expenditure was £1,660 and it said that her monthly 
credit commitments (including its monthly loan repayment) were £268.88. So, it calculated that Miss F had a disposable income of £1,100.12. BL had seen an extract from Miss Fs 
bank statements to verify her wages which were put into her account around 12 days 
previously. It had also seen deposits for Miss Fs wages in December 2016 and          
January 2017 on the statement extract. 
But Im again concerned that BL appears to have relied on Miss Fs statement of her 
expenditure without verifying it in line with CONC 5.3.1(4). 
Ive also reviewed BLs credit checks. I note that this showed that Miss F had a total credit 
balance of £4,058 outstanding of which £3,075 was the outstanding balance on Loan 1. The 
report showed that Miss F had five active accounts and that one account had been opened 
in the previous six months. 
But I could also see that the payday loan Miss F had taken out in July 2016, which Id 
referred to above, wasnt paid until 2 December 2016, and the credit checks show arrears for 
two months on that loan. And six days after repaying that payday loan, Miss F had taken out 
another payday loan. The credit checks showed that loan was in arrears in February 2017. 
In addition, Miss F had exceeded the credit limit on her credit card. I think that BL might have 
been concerned that notwithstanding receipt of Loan 1 for debt consolidation, Miss F had 
then fallen into arrears on her July 2016 payday loan. I think the arrears on her two most 
recent payday loan accounts, and her credit card balance exceeding the accounts credit 
limit show that it was likely that her financial situation was under strain.
   
So overall, I think BLs checks should have included a full review of Miss Fs finances 
including verification of her expenditure. BL needed to ensure that the loan repayments 
would be sustainable over a term of 48 months. She was, after all, committing to repay 
£10,213.83 over that period. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did BL make a fair 
lending decision? 
Miss F has provided her bank statements from around the time she applied for Loans 1    
and 2. Im not suggesting here that these were the checks that BL should have done. But I 
think looking at these gives me the best picture of what the lender was likely to have seen 
had it made better checks. Had it sought verification of Miss Fs actual spending before 
lending, I think BL wouldve been in a better position to understand Miss Fs financial 
situation before it decided to lend to her. 
Ive reviewed Miss Fs bank statements for June to August 2016, January 2017 and 
February 2017. Its clear from Miss Fs bank statements that she was struggling to manage 
her finances. There were numerous returned payments and short term credit. More 
worryingly, the statements show that Miss F was spending a substantial amount on 
gambling. Shed spent at least 75% of her salary on gambling in each of June 2016 and   
July 2016, and she spent in excess of her salary on gambling in each of August 2016, 
January 2017 and February 2017. Miss Fs spending on gambling was frequent enough that 
it was more likely than not that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to 
Miss F being able to repay Loans 1 and 2 sustainably. In these circumstances, I dont think 
that BL would have lent if it knew this. 
So, if BL had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its more than 
likely it would have discovered Miss Fs relatively substantial expenditure on gambling and 
that Miss F was in no position to have been able to sustainably repay either of her loans. So, 
its clear that further checks wouldnt have provided the assurance BL needed. And, it should 
reasonably have concluded that it treated Miss F unfairly when it agreed to lend Loans 1  
and 2 to her. I note that BLs personal details form said that Loan 1 was for debt consolidation. But as I 
have just concluded, if BL had carried out further checks it would have seen that Miss F was 
spending significant amounts on gambling transactions that would have shown it that she 
was having problems managing her finances that a debt consolidation wouldnt have solved. 
It was clear from the level of her gambling that her finances werent stable.
So, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint and BL should put things right as shown below. 
 
Putting things right  what BL needs to do
I understand that Loan 1 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 2 and that Loan 2 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Miss F back into the position she would have been had                
Loans 1 and 2 not been agreed for her, BL needs to ensure that Miss F only repays the 
principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, Miss F shouldnt repay more than the 
combined capital amount of £8,750 she borrowed on these loans. So, BL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Miss F has made towards Loans 1 and 2 as payments towards the
principal amounts borrowed;
b) if Miss F has made payments above the combined capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to her, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) if after applying the refunds, there is still an outstanding capital balance then BL needs to 
treat Miss F fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This may mean agreeing a mutually 
agreeable repayment plan with her.
d) remove any adverse information about Loan 1 from Miss Fs credit file; and
e) remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Miss Fs credit file, once it has been
settled.
If BL has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 2 it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If BL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to e) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires BL to take off tax from this interest. BL must
give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Fs complaint. Advancis Limited, 
trading as Buddy Loans, should put things right in the way Ive set out above under the 
heading Putting things right  what BL needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman