DRN-3096839
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt allow him to operate his account as normal after 
being given notice by TSB that they intended to close his account.
What happened
TSB wrote to Mr H giving him 60 days notice that they intended to close his TSB basic bank 
account. The letter advised Mr H that he could operate the account as normal during the 
notice period.
Mr H went to branch to pay funds into his account but was refused by TSB staff. Mr H stated 
that he was told that this was because his account was due to close. Mr H then went to two 
other TSB branches and was refused service on each occasion. Mr H wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
TSB looked at Mr Hs complaint. They acknowledged that Mr H had been denied entry into 
the branch that he first visited but confirmed that this was the result of a decision taken by 
the branch manager following a series of calls made to the branch by Mr H in which he used 
abusive and rude language. As such, TSB didnt feel that the branch manager had acted 
unreasonably or unfairly by choosing not to allow Mr H into branch, and they didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Mr Hs behaviour towards 
TSB staff justified TSBs decision to now allow him into branch, and they noted that TSB had 
no record of him attempting to visit other TSB branches. So, they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems clear to me that TSBs decision to not allow Mr H into branch was 
taken as a result of Mr Hs abusive and rude behaviour towards TSB staff, and I note that
Mr H has also used derogatory remarks when speaking with the investigator at this service 
who first reviewed his complaint. 
This seems reasonable to me, Im satisfied that TSB didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by 
declining to allow Mr H into branch given his prior behaviour, and I can confirm that I 
wouldnt consider upholding a complaint against a business whose staff had taken 
reasonable measures to protect themselves against a rude and abusive customer.
TSB have confirmed that the usage of Mr Hs account wasnt restricted in the manner that Mr 
H suggests, but rather that his right to enter the specific TSB branch that he visited had been 
withdrawn by the branch manager. This means that Mr H would have still been able to fund 
the account either by visiting another TSB branch or by making a transfer into the account 
from another bank account.
Mr H has said that he did visit two more TSB branches but was refused service on both 
occasions. In instances where the testimony of two parties differs  as it does here  I must 
decide which version of events I feel is more likely to have happened, on balance, given all 
the information available to me.
Its notable that TSB have no record of Mr H being refused service at another branch. Given 
that it would be expected that such a refusal of service would be clearly noted and recorded 
by branch staff at that time that the refusal occurred, I consider it unlikely that two separate 
TSB branches would both refuse to serve Mr H and then not make any note or record of that 
refusal. Because of this, I find it difficult to conclude that Mr H was refused service at other 
TSB branches in the manner that he alleges.
Mr H is also unhappy that TSB closed his other TSB basic bank accounts. Mr H had four 
basic bank account with TSB. However, the terms of the account state that only one such 
account is permitted per customer. As such, I dont feel that TSB acted unfairly by closing 
three of the accounts and leaving Mr H with the one single account. 
The terms of the account also confirm that TSB have the right to close the account at their 
discretion so long as the customer is provided with 60 days notice. The letter that TSB sent 
to Mr H did give him 60 days notice that TSB intended to close his remaining basic bank 
account, and so Im satisfied that TSB didnt act unfairly in that regard.
All of which means that Im satisfied that TSB have acted reasonably and in line with how 
this service would expect here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing TSB to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman