DRN-2598665
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the delays they experienced when they took out a buy to let 
mortgage with Principality Building Society The property was a holiday let and Mr and Mrs C 
say that because of the delay they lost the earnings for the 2020 holiday season and want 
compensated for that.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied for a holiday buy to let mortgage with Principality. There was some 
discussion about which solicitors were to have carriage of the conveyance. It was eventually 
agreed on or about the 19/20 November 2019 that a firm on Principality approved list would 
act for the lender and Mr and Mrs Cs own solicitor would act for them. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they heard nothing for weeks until Mr C rang up in January and found 
out that Principalitys solicitor never received the instructions to act for the building society. 
Mr C made a complaint but didnt receive a satisfactory response. The process took another 
two months to complete which Mr and Mrs C say was an unreasonable period.
Mr and Mrs C say that they lost out on the income of the 2020 holiday season. Mr and Mrs C 
say that if they had completed mid-January 2020 that he would have been able to furnish 
and let the property for the busy Easter, bank holiday and summer periods. Principality as a 
gesture of goodwill refunded its solicitors fees which had ben paid by Mr and Mrs C.
Our investigators view was that there was a delay and Principality could have remedied this 
if they had monitored the process closer. He felt that this delay would have caused Mr and 
Mrs C upset and that Principality should pay compensation of £250 along with the refund of 
the solicitors fees but that it wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Cs financial loss. Principality 
disagreed saying in summary that it sent the solicitors pack in November to its solicitor and 
so wasnt responsible for any delay. Mr and Mrs C also disagree saying that the 
compensation suggested was insufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is concerned with whether Principality caused a delay in the completion of 
this purchase and what the financial consequences of that were. I recognise that this 
process was prolonged before the delay in November 2019, but Mr and Mrs Cs specific 
complaint refers to this latter period. 
Generally, after a lender issues its mortgage offer, it has little further to do with the timing of 
the release of the mortgage monies.  The issue of timing is usually arranged between the 
purchaser and the vendor and their legal representatives. This was a little bit different in that 
there were three legal representatives involved with separate solicitors representing Mr and 
Mrs C, the Vendor and the also a solicitor representing the lender.
Principality says it sent its solicitors instructions on the 20 November 2019. The instructions 
say that its solicitor was to represent both the borrower and the society but that wasnt 
correct as they were to be separately represented. Principalitys solicitors say they got email 
instructions but not the mortgage offer nor the solicitors pack and didnt start work on the file 
until 23 January 2020 after Mr C had to get involved. 
That suggests that there was a lack of communication between Principality and its 
nominated solicitor. I would have thought that it would have been reasonable for Principality 
to monitor the process to ensure that its solicitor was instructed which doesnt seem to have 
occurred causing the two-month delay before the solicitor opened its file. This clearly 
delayed the process. On that basis I uphold this complaint. Im sure that Mr an Mrs C would 
have found this very frustrating being unable to move matters forward with no interaction 
from the lenders solicitor and having to get involved themselves. I accept that a refund of the 
lenders solicitors fee and £250 would be reasonable compensation for that 
Mr and Mrs C feel that there should be further compensation for their financial loss. They 
were going into a new business with the expectation of profit and believe that they were 
deprived by the delay of some of that. There are several difficulties with that. Firstly, the 
timing of completion is outside the control of the lender. Timing depends on many things 
including what suits the vendor and purchaser and all legal issues being tied up. It may be 
that a later completion could have suited the purchaser or Mr and Mrs Cs plans or have 
been necessary to clear up an outstanding  issue prior to completion. 
The lenders solicitor in its letter to Mr and Mrs C of 30 March 2020 says that it when it 
eventually opened its file it called Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor on 23 January 2020 presumably to 
see if the transaction was still on. It was told that the customer was keen to proceed but 
there was no pressing time pressures . That indicates that Mr and Mrs C werent 
demanding to complete immediately, and their solicitors werent saying that the delay would 
impact them financially. My view of this is that although the delay was an annoyance and 
concern to Mr and Mrs C, it wasnt interfering with their financial plans or likely to cause them 
financial loss, otherwise their solicitor would have responded differently. I note that Mr and 
Mrs C havent challenged this statement or produced any contrary evidence from their 
solicitor so I believe its reasonable for me to accept it and so I dont consider that 
Principalitys delay was a cause of such financial loss to Mr and Mrs C.  
But even if I were to accept that Mr and Mrs C could claim for financial loss, which I dont 
believe is appropriate, I simply dont have the evidence to say what that loss is. Ive been 
supplied with an assessment in August 2019 as to what the likely income - not profit - of a 
holiday letting would be for a year. But that was pre-Covid and isnt a realistic assessment of 
what the loss of income or profit would be in 2020, if any, because of this two-month delay 
when the letting industry was in lockdown in any case for extended periods.
For the above reasons I dont believe that I need to make an assessment of Mr and Mrs Cs 
financial loss. In summary I accept that there was a delay and that the lack of 
communication between Principality and its solicitor caused Mr and Mrs C understandable 
frustration and concern. But I believe that compensation of £250 is appropriate along with 
the refund of the solicitors fees and I dont find that this is a case for compensating Mr and 
Mrs C for any financial loss they may have suffered. Finally, I note that our investigator has 
indicated why its not part of our process to consider complaints about delays in Principalitys 
complaint handling process and, so, I wont be commenting on those,  
Putting things right
Principality Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs C £250.  My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman