DRN-3662830
Complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In December 2020, Miss Ns account received payments of £156.08 and £1,281.96. Monzo 
subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for sending the payments to 
Miss Ns account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Monzo 
reviewed Miss Ns account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close her account 
and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss N complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss Ns complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss N remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ns concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss N unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss N disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss N is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Ns account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss N was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss N allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ns complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ns account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Ns 
account in December 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss N was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss N says that she didnt know that the funds were fraudulent. She told our adjudicator 
that the transfers were for payments owed for food that shed prepared for someone as she 
cooked meals on an informal basis, for additional income. When asked to supply the invoice 
issued, Miss N said that she didnt provide one as she wasnt running an actual business 
and simply prepared these meals on an informal basis for additional income. She did 
however provided witness statements from others who she cooked for and screen shots of 
other payments to support that shed carried out this sort of work before.
Ive thought about what Miss N has said. But Im afraid that Miss Ns version of events 
simply isnt plausible. I say this because the payments were for large amounts for a 
company hundreds of miles away. The amount of funds transferred arent commensurate 
with a one-off informal meal preparation arrangement. It would have to be a significant 
amount of food that would have needed to be delivered to justify the funds transferred. I 
would have expected Miss N to have had evidence of having prepared these meals, them 
being delivered or some kind of invoice especially as she says she didnt know about the 
person she was cooking for or his company. 
Im afraid the unsigned statements shes provided form other people doesnt support these 
particular funds having been transferred to her for legitimate purposes. Im also concerned 
that all of this happened almost immediately after the account was opened, as this pattern is 
typical in fraudulent activity. 
The implausibility of Miss Ns version of events coupled with her inability to provide 
persuasive supporting evidence to corroborate what shes told us, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think that Monzo was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that its more likely than not Miss N was complicit in her 
account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ns account. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss N was complicit in 
this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss N. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss N says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss N will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman