DRN-2841116
The complaint
Mr J, on behalf of the estate of Mrs T, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) 
failed to identify and intervene in compulsive spending on Mrs Ts account resulting from a 
gambling addiction. 
Mr J also complains that Co-op failed in its money laundering obligations to question the 
legitimacy of funds that entered Mrs Ts account.
What happened
Mr J says that following the death of Mrs T, he was responsible for administering her estate; 
including her financial affairs. While doing so, he discovered that Mrs T had a chronic 
gambling addiction and had spent large sums of money from her Co-op account on this.
Mr J also discovered that some of the money Mrs T used to gamble with originated from 
encashed shares belonging to him that shed obtained fraudulently using falsified signatures. 
Unhappy that Co-op allowed this, he complained to it on behalf of the estate of Mrs T. 
Mr J felt that Co-op didnt do enough to identify or assist Mrs T with her gambling addiction 
and felt this was exacerbated by its failure to question the legitimacy of the large and 
unusual transactions entering her account. He felt that this failure was a breach of Co-ops 
money laundering obligations; as the transactions into her account fell outside of her normal 
account usage and income. 
Co-op looked into Mr Js concerns but didnt think itd made an error. It said that that while it 
does check a customers credit file when opening an account for any adverse information, 
its unable to track over time what other income a customer may have. It pointed out that 
customers may have other accounts held with different financial businesses or receive 
income from sources such as investments or pensions.
Co-op concluded that it couldnt have reasonably been aware that the credits Mr J had 
complained about had originated from non-legitimate sources. And it added that these 
payments didnt meet the specific criteria for them to be flagged as potentially fraudulent.
It felt that the account was ran satisfactorily in the eight years it was open and pointed out 
that Mrs T hadnt contacted it at any point to advise of problem spending or financial 
difficulties. As such, it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J, unhappy with this response, brought the complaint to our service. An Investigator 
looked at the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that Co-op hadnt made an 
error.
In coming to her conclusions, the Investigator highlighted the following reasons:
There didnt appear to be any reason for Co-op to be concerned about the credits 
into the account.
Even if the credits were deemed to be suspicious in nature, Co-op couldnt have 
been expected to identify they were from fraud if it questioned them further.
While there was a large number of gambling transactions on the account, this 
wouldnt have appeared concerning to Co-op considering that Mrs T was generally 
able to manage the account with either a credit balance or within the agreed 
overdraft limit.
She didnt find it reasonable for a bank to be expected to monitor all transactions or 
to automatically be aware of a customers financial difficulties or vulnerabilities unless 
these had been flagged to them.
Customers are entitled to spend their own funds as they wish.
While acknowledging that it would have been reasonable for Co-op to have sign-
posted Mrs T to support regarding her persistent gambling, it wasnt clear whether 
this support was offered or not. Due to the passage of time, only limited evidence 
was available of what was discussed with her.
Mr J didnt agree. He remained of the opinion that the credits into the account were 
suspicious in nature and this was ignored by Co-op. He pointed out that Mrs T was written to 
by Co-op on over thirty occasions and the account was suspended twice; furthering his 
submission that there were concerns. Additionally, he pointed that Mrs T was a vulnerable 
customer due to her gambling addiction and said that Co-op were aware of this. Despite this 
fact, Mr J felt that Co-op had done nothing to stop this and in fact encouraged her to 
continue.
As Mr J, on behalf of the estate of Mrs T, disagreed with the Investigators findings, the 
matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin outlining my findings on this complaint, I feel that its important to highlight 
what I can and cant consider in these circumstances. I say this as Ive noted from the 
evidence and responses provided by Mr J that as well as the concerns hes raised relating to 
Co-ops failings toward Mrs T, hes also highlighted concerns which he says has impacted 
him directly as a result of the failures.
Mr J has brought this complaint on behalf of Mrs Ts estate as she was a customer of Co-op. 
I can only look at matters which originate from her customer relationship with Co-op. I cant 
look at any of the concerns that Mr J has raised that relate to him personally. 
While I acknowledge and empathise with Mr Js positionand the fact that he appears to 
have fallen victim to a fraudmy findings will solely consider the banks obligations toward 
its customerMrs Tat the time.
Mr J has highlighted two specific concerns he has in the way the bank failed in its obligations 
to protect Mrs T; these can be summarised as:
It failed to question the legitimacy of payments into the account that he says 
originated from fraud.
It also failed in its duty to help and protect Mrs T who suffered a gambling addiction.
For ease, Ill address these issues separately.
Questioning the legitimacy of credits into the accountIn coming to my findings Ive considered a number of obligations financial businesses have 
when dealing with transactions in and out of a customers account. I want to acknowledge 
that this can sometimes be a complex and difficult balance for financial businesses to weigh 
up.
Broadly speaking, businesses are obliged to fulfil the instructions of its customer when 
managing their account and making payments. However, there are times where wed expect 
a business to question the legitimacy of these instructions or the source/destination of 
certain payments. 
The obligations referred to above are set out in the Money Laundering Regulations and are 
generally considered to be good practice in the industry. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, Mr J has pointed out that Mrs T was receiving funds that were obtained from 
fraud. Having reviewed the evidence provided on linked matters relating to this complaint, I 
find it likely that these funds were obtained fraudulently; but that doesnt necessarily mean 
Co-op would reasonably have been aware of this fact.
As Ive said above, Co-op does have an obligation to monitor and question unusual 
transactions, but its unreasonable to expect a business to question the vast majority or 
transactions in and out of a customers account. Such a task would be logistically 
impossible, given the sheer number of transactions being processed by a bank at any 
moment in time. Furthermore, it would likely be to the detriment of its customers carrying out 
regular payments and going about their day to day activities. 
A bank will typically rely upon information from the sending bank to inform it if a credit is the 
benefit of crime or suspicious activity. Without this information, there tends to be a lack of 
reasonable grounds to question it. But there are times a bank could identify unusual or 
suspicious transactions entering an account. This may include, but is not limited to, an 
uncharacteristic sum or pattern of money entering the account or if the account is clearly 
being used for a purpose other than that which was given when it was opened.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mrs Ts account was in receipt of a number of 
creditsnot of any substantial value when considered in isolationover a prolonged period 
of time. While I take onboard Mr Js point that this was unusual considering Mrs T only had 
the benefit of a pension that she was paid each month, I cant say that Co-op should 
reasonably have been aware of all Mrs Ts sources of income. Its not uncommon for 
customers to have several financial accounts with a number of businesses. Nor is it unusual 
for customers to draw on other sources of income in sporadic patterns. While in aggregate, 
the sum credited was substantial, I think the way in which it was paid into the account in 
smaller and infrequent amounts shouldnt reasonably have caused suspicion or concern.
Furthermore, I dont find that the accounts from which the credits originated appeared 
suspicious as they tended to originate from the same source. Mr J has also pointed out that 
the money originating from fraud was paid into Mrs Ts account indirectly. This means that 
they werent paid to her Co-op account directly from the source, but transferred to another 
account and then forwarded on. Having looked through each credit, these are sourced from 
an account bearing the name of Mrs T and persons legitimately associated with her. I dont 
think this looked suspicious in the circumstances, particularly when considering the amounts. 
And Id only expect Co-op to have picked up on these and questioned them if those 
characteristics were present.
For the reasons Ive given above, while I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr J, I 
dont think it reasonable for Co-op to have questioned the credits he refers to. And for clarity, 
even if it had, I find it unlikely any wrong-doing would have been uncovered. By Mr Js own 
admission, Mrs T had access to the accounts in question and likely would have been able to successfully challenge any request for proof of entitlement to the credits.
Protecting and providing support on gambling concerns
Having reviewed Mrs Ts account and notes available, I can find no evidence that she made 
Co-op aware of her gambling problems throughout the time it was open. Having said this, 
Mrs Ts bank statements are quite clear in that she spent a large proportion of the funds in 
the account on gambling transactions. And there are a number of occasions where this 
expenditure could reasonably be identified as excessive.
While its true that a consumer cantin most circumstancesbe restricted in what they 
spend their money on, there are certain circumstances where its considered good practice 
and reasonable for a bank to step in and offer support.
As there is no evidence to suggest Mrs T had informed Co-op of any gambling issues or 
vulnerability, I dont think it fair to say that Co-op should have intervened in the payments or 
prevented them from taking place. Had Mrs T specifically asked it to do this I may have 
taken a different view, but I cant see that she did. However, I do think that the spending 
should have been picked up by Co-op and flagged as a potential concern. And I think it 
would have been reasonable in the circumstances to discuss this expenditure with Mrs T 
and offer support either through a specialised team or external agencies.
Co-op has provided evidence of letters sent to Mrs T each time she made payments above 
her arranged overdraft limit. And these do set out advice on debt management and the 
details of an external agency that can help. But it didnt contain any information relating to 
gambling related charities or advice services. I think Co-op could have included this 
information considering that a number of the transactions that were taking her beyond her 
overdraft limited were gambling transactions. 
Ive also noted occasions where Co-op has blocked the account for further security checks 
on some transactions to ensure they were authorised by Mrs T. I think this also presented an 
opportunity for Co-op to identify the high number of gambling transactions and offer support. 
However, its difficult to know if any intervention would have made a difference. Even if Co-
op had signposted Mrs T to support relating to her gambling difficulties, theres no guarantee 
how shed have responded to that. Its significant that she doesnt appear to have mentioned 
gambling difficulties when Co-op contacted her about specific payments and that she didnt 
respond to attempts to offer support relating to financial hardship. Ive also considered that 
Mrs T hadnt disclosed any gambling difficulties with family members and had asked Co-op 
for paper statements to be stopped being sent to her address. So, it seems more likely that 
she was actively attempting to mask this behaviour rather than seek help for it.
Furthermore, I cant confidently determine that Co-ops lack of support was a causal factor in 
any potential distress caused by the gambling. Its a very difficult case to determine
considering Mrs T has now tragically passed awayif any offer of support or signposting 
may have provoked change. I say this as Mrs T was at the time using funds that were 
allegedly stolen, had been gambling over a considerable period of time and had not asked 
for help from the bank at any stage. 
I therefore cant reasonably determine that Co-op has caused any additional distress as a 
result. But I do find it more likely than not that the pattern of expenditure would have 
continued regardless; and Co-op cant reasonably be held accountable for this considering 
its obligations.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs T, to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman