DRN-3487295
The complaint
Miss D complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE provided her 
with poor service after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Miss D is 
represented by her mother, Mrs D
What happened
Miss D had an accident in January 2020. The police attended the scene and advised Miss D 
to ask her insurer to get a police collision report. The police said it would show that the other 
driver was fully at fault for the accident. Mrs D says Aioi didnt ask for a police report until 
April 2020 and then didnt chase it up. The police later told her that Aioi had only applied for 
a basic limited particulars report, for £35. The police also said they couldnt trace a payment 
from Aioi and that Aioi hadnt replied to its query about that. Mrs D says as Aioi didnt 
address the issue of the police collision report for many months, it delayed the claims 
progress unnecessarily. 
  
The other drivers insurer (insurer C) didnt co-operate with Aioi initially, so it instructed 
solicitors in May 2020. Insurer C then claimed to have reimbursed Aioi for its outlay. AIOI 
says it couldnt find the payment and says it chased insurer C for it from June to September 
2020. But when Mrs D contacted insurer C in October 2020, she found it was disputing 
liability and had told Aioi in error that it had paid its costs. At that point, Aioi instructed 
solicitors again, but Mrs D says it should have acted more quickly to move matters on.
Mrs D says she and Miss D werent given updates by Aioi and that emails from them were 
ignored. AIOI accepted that two emails from them werent answered in December 2020 and 
that a promised review didnt take place. It apologised and offered Miss D compensation of 
£75. Mrs D also complained about the service provided by the solicitors, but Aioi advised her 
to contact them directly about that. Mrs D said that as a result of all the delays, Miss D had 
to renew her policy with an open fault claim on it, which led to a rise in her premium. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Ds complaint. He thought there was evidence that 
Aioi had requested a police report  and that there was nothing to show that the payment for 
it not being located was Aiois fault. He thought Aioi had no reason to think insurer C had 
made an error in telling it about its reimbursement of Aiois losses  and that there was some 
evidence that Aioi had chased insurer C from June to September 2020 about that payment. 
As it then instructed solicitors, he thought it had acted fairly. The investigator noted that Aioi 
had offered Miss D compensation for poor service, which he thought was reasonable.
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision, upholding the complaint, as follows:
As Aioi hasnt provided any information to us, despite several requests, I can only base my 
decision on the details Mrs D has provided on Miss Ds behalf. That includes some 
correspondence from Aioi, from insurer C and from the police. In the absence of direct 
evidence, my findings are based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
Police report
I think its likely that Miss D told Aioi that the police had advised paying for a collision report 
(which included witness statements taken by them at the time) as in their view it would help 
to establish liability. I have no reason to doubt that when Mrs D contacted the police, they 
told her that Aioi had only applied for a limited particulars report. If thats correct, I cant see 
how it would have helped to establish liability, so it would only have been a starting point. 
But it seems Aioi didnt even chase the basic police report it had applied for.
In an email to Mrs D in February 2021, Aioi said that police reports take a long time to arrive 
and that it wouldnt be sent to Aioi until the police had completed their enquiries. There was 
no suggestion that Aioi had chased the report. Aioi said in its final response letter that it had 
made a further payment to the police in April 2020, having requested the police report 
(presumably with a fee) before 5 March 2020. But that doesnt tally with what the police told 
Mrs D, and in the absence of Aiois business file, I dont know if its correct or not. If it is, it 
seems the report still wasnt chased by Aioi (after its second payment) when it was clear how 
vital a full police report would be in terms of establishing liability promptly.
In February 2021 the police asked Miss D to give Aioi a named contact and a direct line 
number so the issue could be sorted out. I think its more likely than not that she or Mrs D 
made Aioi aware of the details straight away. Mrs D says Aioi told her at the time that it 
couldnt say when it would next contact the police. In the end it seems AIOIs solicitors paid 
for the polices collision report in July 2021 - 18 months after the accident. 
Insurer C
I think insurer C was partly responsible for the delay in progressing Miss Ds claim, as it 
failed to co-operate from the outset and then misled Aioi about having reimbursed its outlay. 
I think Aioi has shown that it made some effort to chase insurer c about its alleged payment, 
as Aioi has given specific details about a call it made. It says it made other calls and sent 
emails to insurer C, but as I havent seen the file, I cant be sure of the extent of its 
attempted contact. Whats certain is that Aioi made no progress with insurer C on this issue 
for more than four months.
The delay led Mrs D to contact insurer C herself. She says she had no problem in doing that. 
Mrs D may have been very fortunate in being able to speak to one of insurer Cs advisors 
the first time she called it. But I think the matter may well have drifted on without Mrs Ds 
input. It isnt clear why Aioi only instructed solicitors to move matters on after her 
intervention, given that insurer C hadnt co-operated from the start and was yet again 
preventing any progress with the claim. 
Poor contact 
AIOI says it only contacts consumers if theres a significant development in a case. I think 
thats reasonable, as long as consumers are told thats whats going to happen. But I think 
theres a big difference between that stated policy and not responding to emails sent by 
consumers asking for an update or for a response to a specific question. 
AIOI has only compensated Miss D for not replying to two emails and not carrying out a 
review. As I havent seen the business file, I cant be sure how many emails and calls from 
Miss D or Mrs D werent replied to. But from what Mrs D has said, I think its more likely than 
not that over the period in question, it was more than two. 
   
In summary 
  Based on the information Ive seen, I think Aioi dealt with the claim well initially. Miss D was 
paid for her written-off car by 11 February 2020. But I think its more likely than not that her 
claim would have been finalised much more quickly had Aioi done more to ensure it had a 
copy of the police collision report early on in the process. I also think it could have done 
more to encourage insurer C to respond to its query about the reimbursement of its costs. I 
dont think Miss D (or Mrs D on her behalf) should have had to chase Aioi, the police or 
insurer C at all. So in my opinion, Aiois claims handling and communication was lacking.
Given the circumstances of the accident and the apparent behaviour of the other driver, I 
can see why Miss D (a very young driver) was so distressed following it. As far as I can see, 
it seems she wasnt at fault, so she just wanted to put it all behind her. I think that should 
have been possible fairly quickly, but the claim was allowed to drag on unnecessarily. That 
meant Miss D ( and Mrs D) were caused unnecessary worry, frustration and inconvenience. 
AIOI told Miss D it would adjust her premium once liability was settled, which is what wed 
expect an insurer to do. But I dont think the £75 compensation it has paid Miss D is enough. 
I think it would be reasonable for it to pay her a further £150 for distress and inconvenience.   
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs D accepted them on behalf of 
Miss D. Aioi didnt respond, despite reminders.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any comment on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart 
from them. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Aioi to pay Miss D a further £150 
compensation (£225 in total). 
My final decision
My final decision is that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE should pay 
Miss D a further £150 for distress and inconvenience. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules I must ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman