DRN-3864582
The complaint
Mr A complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) wrongly declined his claim under his Legal 
Expenses Insurance (LEI) policy to pursue a legal claim against his employer 
What happened
In August 2015 a colleague of Mr A (the third party) made allegations against him that were 
investigated as part of his employers internal disciplinary process. Mr A appealed the 
outcome. Issues arose between Mr A and the employer about how the appeal process was 
being conducted. To resolve the dispute, they entered into a settlement agreement (the 
settlement agreement) in May 2017.
In around October 2017 the employer reached an agreement with the third party to settle 
legal proceedings against them relating to the allegations the third party had made against 
Mr A.
Mr A took out a LEI policy with Lloyds in February 2018. In around June 2018 he became 
concerned about information the third party was releasing into the public domain concerning 
the allegations theyd made against Mr A. Mr A discovered the employers agreement with 
the third party had failed to include provisions that would prevent this. And theyd disclosed 
documentation relating to his disciplinary process. In June 2018 Mr A took legal advice. In 
January 2019 he made a claim for LEI cover to pursue a claim against the employer for 
breach of the settlement agreement.
Lloyds said Mr A needed to exhaust internal disciplinary and grievance procedures under 
the employment claims section of the policy before his claim could go ahead. Once hed 
done that, Lloyds considered his claim in more detail - and declined it. They said it was 
excluded as it arose from an act or omission or dispute that existed at the start of the policy 
which Mr A ought reasonably to have believed could have led to a claim. They said too the 
exclusion relating to an allegation against an insured involving an assault may apply.
Mr A disputed Lloyds position. He said he had no grounds to think hed want to take legal 
proceedings against the employer when he took out the LEI cover. And the nature of the 
claim he wished to make was unrelated to the third partys allegations against him. Since 
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator came to the view Lloyds hadnt unreasonably declined Mr As claim. She 
said it was fair that the policy only covered events happening during the policy period. Mr A 
had been concerned about the way in which the employer was treating him from August 
2017. And the issues that arose were linked to earlier events. She thought Mr A had reason 
to believe a claim could arise before he took the policy out, so his claim fell within the 
relevant policy exclusion. Since Mr A didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to Mr As claim is complex and well known to the parties, so I wont set it all 
out here. The Financial Ombudsman provides an informal service, so Ill focus on the issues 
I consider key in coming to a decision that I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Since Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties time to provide any further comments or information.
Lloyds mentioned in their correspondence with Mr A that LEI is intended to cover 
unexpected events that arise during the period of insurance. We wouldnt expect an insurer 
to provide cover where a policy is taken out with the intention of claiming about something 
that happened before the policy started. Im not aware of any evidence that was Mr As 
intention here. Mr As told us he took the cover as part of his home insurance renewal and 
had no plans to sue the employer then. Ive currently no reason to doubt that.
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly, and not unreasonably decline a 
claim, in line with Financial Conduct Authority rules. The starting point for looking at Mr As 
complaint is the terms of his LEI policy, which Ill consider against that background.
The policy said that Following an Insured event the insurer will pay the insureds legal 
costs & expenses up to £50,000for all claims related by time or originating cause, subject 
to certain requirements.
Lloyds considered Mr As claim as an event falling under the Employment section of the 
Policy which provided cover for:
A dispute with the insureds current, former or a prospective employer relating to 
their contract of employment or related legal rights.
In declining the claim Lloyds relied on an exclusion applying to the whole of the policy which 
said:
What is not covered by this policy (applicable to the whole policy)
The insured is not covered for any claim arising from or relating to:
2. any actual or alleged act or omission or dispute happening before, or existing at 
the start of the policy and which the insured believed or ought reasonably to have 
believed could lead to a claim.
Ill refer to this as exclusion 2.
Lloyds noted a further exclusion for
4. an allegation against the insured involving:
a) assault
Ill refer to this as exclusion 4.
Can Lloyds rely on exclusion 2?
Lloyds considered a chronology of events Mr A prepared setting out the background to 
allegations the third party had made against him, the disciplinary process that followed, the 
settlement agreement, the third partys claim against the employer, the agreement reached 
to settle that claim and what happened afterwards.Lloyds said Mr As claim fell within the exclusion because the issues were related to an 
ongoing dispute resulting from the third partys allegations dating back to 2015. And Mr A 
knew or ought to have known a claim against the employer could result.
Lloyds relied on events happening in August 2017 and December 2017.
In August 2017, when the third party brought their legal claim, hed contacted the 
employer to set out what hed accepted in connection with the allegations made 
against him by the third party, but had felt his comments werent taken into account. 
Lloyds understood hed also become aware then that the employer hadnt put in 
place a non-disclosure agreement, which meant the third party was free to take 
further action against Mr A.
In December 2017 Mr A had been contacted by two media outlets about allegations 
the third party had made. He noticed he was being excluded from meetings and hed 
been told further complaints had been made about him.
It's important to consider the nature of the claim Mr A wishes to make against the employer 
in considering exclusion 2. The documents Ive seen suggest his claim would be based on 
breach of the settlement agreement and a breach of Mr As data protection and privacy 
rights.
Whilst Mr As claim follows on from historical allegations made about him by the third party, 
his proposed claim against the employer is distinct from that, relating to acts and omissions 
by the employer that have damaged him and his career prospects. Briefly, they are 
failing to include appropriate confidentiality terms in the settlement they 
reached with the third party; and
releasing information to others in breach of the settlement agreement and   
Mr As data protection and confidentiality rights.
Bearing that in mind, its relevant to know when Mr A first became aware of what the 
employer had done. I think its at that point he would have believed, or ought to have done, 
that a claim against the employer might arise. And before that, no dispute could have arisen.
Im not persuaded that Mr As concerns in August 2017 were enough for him to think he 
might need to take the legal action he is proposing. He wouldnt have been aware of any 
alleged breach of the settlement agreement since the employer hadnt come to an 
agreement with the third party by then.
Mr A acknowledges the employer told him orally in around October 2017 there was no 
obligation in their agreement with the third party to keep confidential certain information 
subject to certain safeguards. I dont think it would be fair to expect Mr A to have understood 
the legal and practical implications of an isolated clause explained to him orally and without 
the benefit of legal advice. Hes explained he felt protected by the settlement agreement and 
his understanding the internal disciplinary proceedings were confidential.
Mr A could perhaps have anticipated there might be breaches of confidentiality on the part of 
the third party, given earlier incidents hes referred to. But, on balance, I dont think he would 
have anticipated then the breaches he now alleges on the part of the employer. And it wasnt 
until 2019, when the third party put their agreement with the employer on-line, that Mr A 
knew the employer had given the third party free rein to disclose information.
I dont think the events in December 2017 were enough to lead Mr A to believe the settlement agreement had been breached or that the employer had disclosed confidential 
information. Mr As explained allegations about him had previously been shared by the third 
party, so being excluded from meetings could equally have resulted from that.
It was in June 2018 the third party began posting information on social media and Mr A 
sought legal advice. Im currently persuaded it wasnt until after that Mr A found out about 
the alleged breaches by the employer. Based on what I know so far, I dont think Lloyds 
have shown they can rely on exclusion 2 to decline the claim.
Exclusion 4
As I understand it, Lloyds fell short of relying on exclusion 4 to decline Mr As claim. But, for 
completeness, Ive considered whether they could.
Although Mr As proposed claim follows historical allegations of assault, the allegations he 
makes against the employer are for breach of agreement and confidentiality. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Lloyds can fairly rely on the exclusion to decline Mr As claim.
Bearing everything in mind, my provisional decision is that Lloyds should reconsider Mr As 
claim under the terms and conditions of the policy but ignoring the exclusions Ive 
mentioned. Mr A should be aware my decision doesnt necessarily mean his claim will be 
covered as there may be other reasons why Lloyds can decline his claim.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to 
reconsider his claim ignoring exclusions 2 and 4.
I recently issued a second provisional decision in which I said the following:
Developments
Mr A accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds didnt accept it and made several comments.
In relation to exclusion 2 Lloyds said, in summary, there was no break in the chain of 
causation between the allegations made by the third party in 2015 and the claim Mr A 
wishes to bring against his employer for breach of the settlement agreement. They said that, 
but for those allegations, the settlement agreement would not have existed and if the 
settlement agreement had not existed, there could have been no breach.
Lloyds said, broadly, that exclusion 2 applies where the policyholder ought reasonably to 
have been aware of an allegation that could lead to a claim even if they werent aware of the 
exact nature of the claim. They reiterated that events in August 2017, December 2017 and 
shortly afterwards were sufficient grounds for Mr A to reasonably believe he might need 
some form of legal assistance.
Even though Lloyds didnt rely on exclusion 4 to decline the claim at the time, they said it 
applies to any claim arising from or relating to assault. They said it was clear Mr As 
proposed claim against his employer arose from and related to allegations made against him 
in 2015.
Lloyds also relied on the wording of insured event 1 Employment in the policy, under which 
they considered the claim, to support their point that there could not have been a break in 
the chain of causation. That section covers:A dispute with the insureds current, former or a prospective employer relating to 
their contract of employment or related legal rights. A claim can be brought once all 
internal dismissal, disciplinary and grievance procedures as set out in the
ACAS Code of Practice for Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures, or
Labour Relations Agency Code of Practice on Disciplinary and Grievance 
Procedures in Northern Ireland
 have been or ought to have been concluded.
They said that for a claim to be covered under this event, it would have to relate to the 
original allegations, as cover is only available once all internal employment processes have 
ended. Those processes related to the allegations made in 2015. So, the allegations and the 
claim Mr A now wishes to make against his employer are linked. They arise from and relate 
to an alleged act that happened before the policy started, which Mr A was or ought 
reasonably to have been aware of. On that basis exclusions 2 and 4 apply.
Lloyds also raised a new point in relation to cover. Although theyd considered the claim 
under the employment section of the policy, they said it isnt covered under that section at all 
because it says: 
What is not covered under Insured event 1
Any claim arising from or relating to:
a compromise or settlement agreement between the insured and their employer 
unless such agreement arises from an ongoing claim under the policy.
Ill consider Lloyds comments below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the points Lloyds now raise in relation to exclusions 2 and 4 are new save for 
those they make by reference to the wording of the Employment event cover.
I note Lloyds broadly agree my summary of the nature of the claims Mr A wishes to bring 
against his employer. I still think its fair to say Mr As proposed claim against his employer is 
distinct from the allegations made against him in 2015.
To summarise what I said in my first provisional decision, I think Mr A reasonably thought his 
dispute with his employer had been resolved by the settlement agreement and it wasnt until 
June 2018 he had cause to think his employers had breached its terms. For exclusion 2 to 
apply, what Mr A believed is important. Im not persuaded its fair to say he believed or ought 
reasonably to have believed there was any allegation or dispute existing at the start of the 
policy that could lead to a claim.
Im not sure if Lloyds are now seeking to rely on exclusion 4. I dont think its clear in any 
event, as Lloyds suggest, that the claim Mr A wishes to make arises from or relates to an 
allegation against him about an alleged assault. Given the time that had passed, and the 
events that had happened since that allegation was made, before Mr A became aware of the 
alleged breach of the settlement agreement, I think its fair to conclude there was a break in 
the chain of causation. Mr A reached the settlement agreement with the employer in May 
2017. Ive set out why I think it was reasonable for him to think that concluded things. It 
wasnt until October that year that his employer reached a settlement with the third party.   Mr A wasnt involved in that. And he wasnt aware of the settlement terms until after the 
policy began.
Ive considered Lloyds point that for Mr As claim to be considered under the employment 
section of the policy it would necessarily relate to the original allegations. They say thats 
because the cover was only available once internal employment processes had been 
completed  and those processes related to the allegations. That meant the causal link 
between those allegations and the claims Mr A wishes to pursue was unbroken.
I note Lloyds argument, but it doesnt change my view. If, as was the case, Lloyds agreed 
to consider the case under the employment section, it was still necessary to go on and 
consider the exclusions. And Ive explained why I dont think Lloyds can reasonably rely on 
them here.
However, I think Lloyds are probably right to say Mr As claim doesnt fall under the 
employment section of the policy because of the limitation on what that section covers. I set 
that out under Developments above. Mr As proposed claim against his employer does not 
relate to breach of a settlement agreement entered into as part of an ongoing claim under 
the insurance policy. It relates to an agreement reached with his employer to settle a dispute 
before he took out insurance with Lloyds. Therefore, he is not covered under the policy for 
the claim he wishes to make against his employer.
It's disappointing Lloyds have only picked up on this now. Ive no doubt Mr A will be upset 
his claim isnt covered after all. I dont think it would be fair for me to say Lloyds should 
cover the claim since the policy is quite clear. Whilst the circumstances are complex, its not 
a case where Lloyds have, at any stage, accepted Mr As claim, even though the basis on 
which they now decline cover is different.
Im not aware Mr As relied on anything Lloyds have said in taking action thats prejudiced 
him or affected him financially. Ill consider any evidence he wishes to provide about that. 
But hes clearly spent time and effort in bringing his insurance claim and this complaint. I 
think that could probably have been substantially avoided if Lloyds had declined the claim 
for the right reason initially.
Mr A made his claim in early 2019. He was initially told exclusion 2 applied. But Lloyds went 
on to consider the claim when he explained the basis of his claim against his employer was 
breach of the settlement agreement. They said then he could instruct his own solicitors and 
he should ask them to provide an assessment on the prospects of success. That work 
wasnt done as Mr A was unwell.
When Mr A went back to Lloyds in around June 2020 he was told he needed to have 
completed the grievance procedure and they couldnt consider the claim until hed made a 
claim to ACAS. He provided an ACAS certificate later that year.
Lloyds confirmed provisional cover in around October 2020 and, despite previously 
indicating Mr A could use his own solicitors, they appointed panel solicitors to consider the 
case. The solicitors alerted Lloyds to the possible pre-inception exclusion and the allegation 
relating to assault. Lloyds then declined cover based on exclusion 2. The possibility 
exclusion 4 might apply was only raised with Mr A later. And Lloyds never mentioned to    
Mr A the section under which they confirmed they were considering the claim didnt provide 
cover at all given the nature of the settlement agreement.
Based on the information Mr A provided, I think its reasonable to expect Lloyds could have 
reached a conclusion on cover at the outset without the need for legal advice. If they had, I 
think its more likely than not Mr A would have accepted that decision given the policy wording is clear. Instead he spent around two years pursuing his complaint, on the 
understanding Lloyds relied on the exclusions, before bringing it to the Financial 
Ombudsman.
In the circumstances, I think its fair Lloyds compensate Mr A for the time and effort hes 
wasted and for the disappointment he will inevitably feel now due to the way Lloyds have 
handled his claim. Based on what I know so far, I think fair compensation is £650. But Ill 
consider anything the parties have to say about that, and any evidence Mr A wishes me to 
consider about any costs he may have incurred, before reaching a final decision. The parties 
should provide that information by the deadline Ive set at the beginning of this second 
provisional decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to direct Society of Lloyds to pay Mr A compensation 
of £650 for distress and inconvenience.
Further Developments
Neither party accepts my second provisional decision. Ill summarise the key points theyve 
made in response.
Lloyds say:
Exclusion 2 is in two parts  requiring there to be a dispute existing before the policy 
starts and a belief on the part of the insured (or a reason why they ought reasonably 
to have believed) it could lead to a claim. 
Mr A acknowledged his claim arose from events that had happened historically.
Based on the timeline, Mr A ought to have believed there was a dispute that could 
lead to a claim; the seriousness of information being released into the public domain 
ought to have led him to believe he might make a claim, even if he didnt become 
concerned until June 2018.
Exclusion 2 applies.
The stance Lloyds have taken in relation to exclusion 4 is clear  Mr A was told it 
could potentially apply. But Lloyds didnt look into it further since exclusion 2 applied.
They havent changed the reason for declining the claim. It was right to decline the 
claim based on exclusion 2. In October 2022 they noted that even if they were to 
agree exclusion 2 didnt apply, Mr As claim would fall outside the employment 
section of the policy in any event. Since exclusion 2 applied, there was no reason to 
decline the claim for another reason.
They declined the claim in January 2019; Mr A first complained in 2021 and Lloyds 
sent their response in September 2021  so he didnt spend two years pursuing his 
complaint. When they declined the claim and Mr A disputed the decision, Lloyds said 
theyd be willing to contact his chosen solicitor once proceedings were ready to start 
to discuss the claim. Mr A didnt get in touch until May 2020 and Lloyds say there 
was no reason for them to be in touch in the meantime.
Its hypothetical to say Mr A would have accepted the position if Lloyds had said it fell 
outside the policy cover. Lloyds dont agree any error on their part in declining the 
claim has caused Mr A distress and inconvenience, so they dont agree to pay 
compensation.
Mr A says:
He understood Lloyds had considered all the policy exceptions and exclusions when they agreed in 2019 he could instruct his own solicitors. So, its not right to say 
Lloyds have only just considered the extent of cover under the employment section 
of the policy  they considered it in 2019. It wouldnt be fair for them to decline the 
claim on that basis now.
Based on his understanding the claim had been accepted and thinking Lloyds would 
accept it even after theyd declined it based on exclusion 2, Mr A incurred legal costs 
of around £18,000. 
In 2019 he was only aware of a claim based on breach of the settlement agreement. 
He became aware later of a potential claim based on breaches of the terms of 
confidentiality inherent in the policies that govern the grievance and disciplinary 
procedures of his employer which form part of his employment contract. To say his 
claim is wholly based on a breach of the settlement agreement is wrong. Since his 
claim would be based on a breach of his employment contract, the policy provides 
cover.
The exception to employment cover is ambiguous and should be read in his favour. 
Its designed to exclude claims where an employee has reached settlement through 
the ACAS/COT3 process, not the settlement he reached with his employer.
He didnt have access to the policy wording when he took the policy out and changes 
may have been made in relation to the exclusions since cover started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the parties strength of feeling about this complaint and Ive carefully 
considered their responses to my provisional decision. Lloyds rightly point out that the 
Financial Ombudsman is impartial. We reach decisions based on whats fair and reasonable 
bearing in mind the individual circumstances of each complaint, balancing the evidence and 
arguments as appropriate. Ive come to my decision on that basis after inviting the parties 
further comments.
I remain of the view that Lloyds cant rely on exclusion 2 for the reasons Ive already given. 
They havent raised any substantively new arguments about that. And theyve confirmed 
they didnt rely on exclusion 4 to decline Mr As claim.
I note what Lloyds say about events between January 2019 and when they responded to  
Mr As complaint. My understanding about what happened based on the email exchanges 
Ive seen was set out in my second provisional decision. Whatever the position, I think 
Lloyds should have considered whether the claim fell within the policy cover before going on 
to consider the policy exclusions. They should have set out all their reasons for declining   
Mr As claim at the outset and when he came back to them in 2020. He would then have had 
the chance to address all the issues sooner thereby avoiding delay and wasted time. Its fair 
hes compensated for that.
Mr A isnt entitled to be compensated for the legal costs hes incurred. The policy makes 
clear only pre-authorised costs will be paid. Mr A already had advice from his own lawyers 
when he made his claim on the policy. So, he cant recover those costs. In February 2019 
Lloyds said theyd get involved when they heard from Mr As solicitors his claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. Theres no evidence they said theyd cover his legal costs 
before they had that confirmation. When Mr A went back to Lloyds in 2020 they required him 
to provide an ACAS certificate before theyd confirm the policy provided cover. That was a 
requirement for cover to be provided. So, its reasonable for Mr A to have paid the costs of 
obtaining the certificate. I initially agreed there was no cover due to the employment cover exception, but on 
reflection I think theres some doubt about the legal basis of Mr As proposed claim against 
his employer. He suggests its based not only on the settlement agreement, but also on 
breach of his employment contract. 
Counsel advised in January 2019 a claim against the employer would be based on breach of 
the settlement agreement. Mr A says the agreement he reached isnt the sort of settlement 
agreement the policy excludes. The letter of claim sent on his behalf by the first firm of 
solicitors mentions claims for breach of the settlement agreement and breach of his 
employment contract. The second letter of claim makes a claim for breach of the settlement 
agreement and breach of confidentiality/data protection. 
Since this issue isnt part of the complaint Mr A brought to us, and given the position is 
unclear, I wont make a decision about that. Instead, Mr A should provide his evidence and 
arguments to Lloyds so they can consider his claim further. If Mr A is then unhappy with 
what Lloyds decide about cover, he should make a separate complaint.
The concerns Mr As raised about the policy information he was given dont form part of this 
complaint either, so I wont consider them. But theres no reason to think the policy wording 
which Lloyds provided, and Ive considered, is wrong or has changed since the policy 
started. 
Bearing everything in mind, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct Lloyds 
to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr A £650 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct Society of Lloyd's to pay Mr A £650 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman