DRN-1285656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain they were mis-sold a unit-linked reviewable Whole of Life (WOL) 
policy by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Ltd because they didn't want the 
policy and were pressured into taking it out. 
What happened
In 1990 Mr C and Mrs C saw an adviser for Sun Life and were advised to take out the 
WOL to provide both life cover and investment. The monthly premium was initially £40 but 
was increased by £4 each year for the first five years. According to Sun Life Mr and Mrs C 
stopped paying the premium in January 1993 at which point the policy became paid-up. 
They finally cancelled the policy in February 2019 and received the small value in the policy 
at that time.
Sun Life upheld their complaint because it didn't think the WOL policy was suitable to 
provide both life cover and investment as Mr and Mrs C wanted. It said the policy was mainly 
for protection, so wasn't really suitable as an investment. But it said that Mr and Mrs C still 
had a need for life cover. So it calculated redress based on repayment of premiums plus 
interest but less the cost of life cover, tax and the amount paid to Mr and Mrs C when they 
cancelled the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didn't agree with the redress offered. In particular, they referred to the bank 
charges they said had been incurred due to the financial difficulties they were in at the time, 
which they said were due to the premiums.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didn't uphold it. He said that Mr and 
Mrs C hadn't provided evidence of the charges. He also said that if they hadn't taken out the 
WOL policy they would've had a similar product which they would've paid for. In the 
circumstances he wasn't satisfied the cost of the WOL policy was the sole reason bank 
charges were incurred.
Mr and Mrs C didn't agree with the investigator. They said that they had made it clear from 
the start the importance of considering this complaint together with the other complaint they 
had made - about two endowment policies.
They said they didn't want any policies because they couldn't afford them but that they were 
made to feel like they had to have them. And that if they hadn't had to pay for the policies 
they would've had enough money to pay their other direct debits. They questioned whether, 
because they needed the policies, the investigator was saying they had to have them.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities - what is more likely than not. So I am not saying what definitely did or didn't 
happen and it is possible that something different to what I find happened. I have explained 
this because Mr and Mrs C have maintained throughout that they were coerced or pressured 
into taking out the WOL policy and that they couldn't afford it.
But they are recalling what happened nearly 30 years before they complained and, whilst I 
accept they have told me what they believe happened, memories from so long ago are very 
unlikely to be accurate and aren't persuasive evidence of what actually occurred. So I'm not 
satisfied it is more likely than not they were put under pressure, or somehow coerced, into 
taking out the WOL policy.
It is also difficult to see on what basis any pressure could've been applied, given the 
WOL policy wasn't linked to anything else such as a mortgage or other debt. I have 
also seen no evidence that the policy was unaffordable given Mr and Mrs C maintained the 
premiums for nearly three years and could've stopped paying these at any time.
I note that Mr and Mrs C have suggested that this complaint should be considered with the 
other complaint they have made about two endowment policies Sun Life sold them. This is 
because they have said they were pressured into taking out those policies as well. But they 
are different products and were taken out later. So even if it was decided Mr and Mrs C were 
pressured into taking those policies out this would provide no evidence that they were 
pressured into taking out the WOL policy.
Sun Life upheld the complaint because the WOL policy was sold to provide both life cover 
and investment when it was predominantly a protection policy, so was not really suitable as 
an investment. It offered redress based on repayment of the premiums less the cost of life 
cover on the basis that Mr and Mrs C wanted life cover so would've ended up paying for this 
cover - albeit not through this policy.
I agree with Sun Life that the WOL policy wasn't suitable as an investment. I have 
considered whether its approach to the redress payable, in particular the deduction of the 
cost of life cover, is reasonable.
Given life cover was identified as a need for Mr and Mrs C, and it will have been clear the 
WOL policy provided such cover, I think it is more likely than not they did want such cover. 
So I think it is reasonable to calculate redress as Sun Life has done, with the deduction of 
the costs of the life cover from the repayment of premiums.
But Mr and Mrs C have raised another issue with regard to the mis-sale of the WOL policy 
and the redress that should be paid. They say that because they were in financial difficulty at 
the time they took out the policy they incurred bank charges that they wouldn't otherwise 
have incurred. They want Sun Life to repay these.
But Mr and Mrs C have provided no evidence of the charges they incurred, or that any 
charges that were incurred were as a result of paying the premiums for the WOL policy. And 
even if they did incur bank charges as a result of payment of the WOL premiums I'm not 
persuaded they wouldn't have incurred those charges in any event, given I think they 
would've taken out life cover anyway for which a premium would've been payable. So I'm not 
persuaded Sun Life are responsible for any bank charges Mr and Mrs C had to pay.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman