DRN-3619515
The complaint
Mr K complains that Well Dunn Limited trading as Well Dunn Insurance Revolution Services 
(Well Dunn) mis-sold him a motor trade insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K had a motor trade insurance policy covering his business as a motor trader which was 
arranged through Well Dunn, who are an insurance broker. 
The policy had been arranged through Well Dunn for two previous years and it renewed in 
October 2021. 
In late November, Mr K discovered that a vehicle he was selling had been stolen. Mr Ks 
motor trade business operated from his home address and the vehicle was stolen from his 
driveway.
Mr K contacted the insurer, who investigated his claim and then declined it. The insurer said 
Mr Ks policy had no cover for vehicles on trade premises. Because Mr K worked from home, 
this meant that there was no cover under the policy for the stolen vehicle.
Mr K complained to Well Dunn saying he told it that he was selling vehicles from his home 
address. He says he asked for a comprehensive level of cover and he thinks Well Dunn 
should have taken more care to make sure his policy was suitable for his business needs. 
Well Dunn said it had told Mr K that the policy was only for road risks and didnt include 
cover for vehicles in stock. It provided a copy of the renewal call Mr K had made, during 
which he was told:
This policy will cover you to drive standard saloons, hatch backs and MPVs so long 
as the vehicle is driven in connection with your Motor Trade business. Because this 
is a Road Risks only policy, there is no cover for stock vehicles kept at any address 
unless this cover is purchased separately.
Mr K remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. He asks that Well Dunn 
pays the amount of money that he lost when then vehicle was stolen, together with his loss 
of earnings from it and compensation for his anxiety and stress. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Mr K was read the 
statement above, as well as another statement confirming there was no cover for stock on 
or parked within 100 metres of the trade premises. Our investigator looked at the policy 
documents issued by Well Dunn which confirmed there was no cover for vehicles on the 
above basis.
He said he didnt think Well Dunn had sold a policy that was entirely suitable for Mr Ks 
needs, but it had given him clear information about what was covered. He pointed out that 
Mr K had made changes to the policy during the call, so hed been engaged with Well Dunn.
Mr K didnt agree with the view. He points out that he only had the policy documents a few 
days before renewal while he was looking after his ill family. He mentions another mistake 
made by Well Dunn as another factor that shows its service wasnt suitable. He reiterates 
that he repeatedly told Well Dunn that he was selling from his home and that he would have 
bought the additional cover for trade premises if hed understood that his policy didnt include 
it.
Mr K asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks business involved selling vehicles from his home address. The type of policy hed 
purchased from Well Dunn is called a road risks policy, which is a type of policy that would 
mean Mr K was insured to drive vehicles in connection with his business on the road. These 
policies can be extended to cover the vehicle when it is parked up, effectively as stock, but 
Mr K hadnt bought this extension, which is often referred to as trade premises cover.
I can see from its evidence that Well Dunn provided Mr K with details of his policy coverage 
at renewal. I can see that the policy schedule, the policy wording and the insurance product 
information document all contain references that the policy didnt include trade premises 
cover, so there wasnt any cover for vehicles on the premises or within 100 metres of it. 
I think its fair to say that Mr K engages with the call handler during the calls Ive listened to. 
There are discussions about changing the cover, for example, and Mr K does ask specific 
questions about the administration of the policy and asks to change the cover limit. In the 
call when Mr K agrees to buy the policy, Well Dunns call handler also reads out the 
statement shown above about this key exclusion, which is acknowledged by Mr K.
Its clear to me that Mr K didnt read his policy documentation closely enough, or listen to the 
call carefully enough, and I think its reasonable for Well Dunn to have expected him to do 
so.
Mr K has said he was under pressure looking after ill family members when the renewal 
documentation arrived, but I cant reasonably say thats the fault of Well Dunn.
I think Mr Ks financial loss has been incurred due to his mistake in not checking he had the 
correct level of cover in place. So I think Mr K should have taken more care with his 
documents and asked the advisor specific questions if he wasnt sure. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I think Well Dunn acted fairly and reasonably and Im 
not going to ask it to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman