DRN-3036130
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold an annuity by Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish 
Widows).
What happened
On 19 January 2003 Scottish Widows sent Mr A a retirement annuity quotation with two 
options. The first option was for a single life annuity and the second was for a tax-free cash 
lump sum and a reduced single life annuity. 
The quotation stated it had been prepared on a standard basis. It also said that if Mr A 
wanted to provide a widow(ers)s pension for his spouse he would need to evidence their 
age and their marital status.
On 24 February 2003 Scottish Widows sent Mr A a second letter. This stated that theyd pay 
1% of the value of the annuity purchased to another business as commission. Mr A didnt 
agree this payment should be made. So on 28 February 2003 he wrote to Scottish Widows 
to tell them that he strongly objected to the commission payment. He said hed not consulted 
anyone about his annuity purchase.
On 5 March 2003 Mr A completed the payment authorisation form. He selected a tax-free 
cash lump sum and a single life annuity, guaranteed for five years. This was the second 
option detailed in 19 January 2003 retirement annuity quotation.
On 12 April 2003 Scottish Widows sent Mr A confirmation of the annuity purchase. It would 
start on 15 April 2003.
In December 2019 Mr A complained to Scottish Widows. He felt his annuity had been mis-
sold. His complaint said:
He was concerned that when he took out the annuity, he may not have been given all 
potential options available at that time
He didnt receive any explanations about his right to shop around and request Open 
Market Options when choosing his annuity
He felt Scottish Widows didnt consider that he had a financially dependent spouse at 
the time
In their 2 January 2020 final response letter, Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
They noted that Mr A hadnt taken advice from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) prior 
to taking his retirement benefits. And noted that they didnt provide any advice, as the 
annuity had been set up on a non-advised basis. They said Mr A had been given the 
opportunity to evaluate other options. And that hed also been able to ask another provider to 
pay his annuity through the Open Market Option. They also said that the factsheets theyd 
included in Mr As retirement pack gave facts and information about annuities. Scottish 
Widows also said that theyd noted in the retirement quote that if Mr A wanted a quote on a 
spouse pension basis he would need to provide evidence of their age and the marital status. 
So they felt theyd given him all the information required to make an informed decision. 
Mr A replied to Scottish Widows on 10 January 2020. He said he was never advised that 
there would be no benefit for his wife when he chose his option. He said the wording in the 
option form felt like a sales pitch to ask a person to take out a separate pension for their 
spouse. He also said that the fact that his annuity was paid into a joint account with his wife 
named on that account was a further indication of what he assumed hed purchased. And he 
said he felt the documentation hadnt been written in plain English in order to mislead him. 
He also noted that he had other pensions which automatically provided widow's pensions. 
On 22 January 2020 Scottish Widows replied to Mr A. They didnt uphold his complaint. 
They said that the material theyd sent him in early 2003 had explained that if he wanted a 
quotation on a different basis, he should let them know. They said the material also covered 
the evidence they would need if a widows pension had been requested. They said this 
suggested that this was a different basis to the one outlined in their standard quotation. 
Scottish Widows acknowledged that Mr A felt that the fact the annuity payments were to be 
paid to a joint account shouldve indicated he required a spouses pension. But said that they 
wouldnt have used that information as the basis for how a customer wanted to set up their 
annuity. They acknowledged that Mr A had other pension providers whod automatically 
given widows cover. But confirmed that Scottish Widows dont automatically set up a 
spouses pension. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
In his initial view, dated 13 May 2021, our investigator thought we couldnt look into the 
merits of the complaint as it hadnt been referred to us within the required timeframe.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed only become aware of the problem in 2019. So our 
investigator agreed to review his complaint. 
On 16 June 2021 Mr A complained to this service about our method of filing the documents 
hed provided.
On 23 June 2021 Mr A listed his reasons for feeling his complaint should be upheld. 
Amongst other things he said:
Certain terms used werent defined in the material hed been sent. I consider that Mr 
As points boil down to mean if plain English had been used he wouldve been better 
able to choose the right annuity for him. 
Scottish Widows failed to clearly inform him that the quotes theyd sent him didnt 
include a spouses pension
His ability to read the documents Scottish Widows had sent him wasnt marred by the 
fact that he hadnt received advice from an IFA
On 30 June 2021 our investigator issued his second view. He had considered the merits of 
the complaint. But hadnt been able to uphold it. He felt Scottish Widows had provided Mr A 
with enough information in the annuity quotation to make an informed decision about his 
annuity purchase.
Mr A didnt agree. He asked this service to show him where in plain English Scottish Widows 
said his wife was not included in his pension.On 29 July 2021 one of our other investigators reviewed Mr As complaint as the previous 
investigator had left this service. The new investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He noted that Scottish Widows had strongly recommended that Mr A took advice, 
but he had chosen not to. He said that the documentation thatd been issued detailed the 
Open Market Option as an alternative for Mr A. And detailed the difference between single 
life and joint life. And that he considered the documentation to be clear and not misleading.
Our new investigator also explained that this service deals with all its complaints in the same 
way. And that we have no obligation to reference our findings in the same way Mr A had 
referenced them.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr As complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr A complains that Scottish Widows mis-sold him his annuity. He says that they shouldve 
included a spouses pension in his quotations. He feels that the quotations he was sent 
didnt make it clear that a spouses pension wasnt included. But I dont agree. Ill explain 
why. 
Mr A could use the pension money hed built up with Scottish Widows to select the 
retirement benefits of his choosing. It wasnt up to Scottish Widows to tell him what pension 
to buy. 
Selecting the best pension for a customers needs is complicated. So Scottish Widows 
suggested Mr A took financial advice from an IFA before choosing his annuity. But Mr A set 
up his annuity on a non-advised basis. Scottish Widows couldnt advise Mr A what annuity to 
buy. Even if they knew hed had a financially dependent wife, they couldnt tell him he should 
buy a spouses pension.
So Scottish Widows provided material to help Mr A with his decision. This included a 
factsheet which described the different types of lifetime annuity that could be purchased. The 
factsheet also explained guarantee periods and how the Open Market Option worked. This 
material shouldve helped an informed decision to be made about what annuity options to 
choose. And it shouldve also helped Mr A to consider which other annuity options he 
wanted to see before he made his final choice. Having read the material provided, I dont 
consider it to be unclear or mis-leading. 
When Mr A signed the Payment Authority form on 5 March 2003, choosing his annuity 
option, he confirmed hed received a number of helpful documents: the Key Features, My 
Right To Think Over My Options and Your Guide to Guaranteed Annuity Rates. So Im 
satisfied that Scottish Widows knew he had access to the important information theyd 
shared with him to help him make his decision. I can also see that Scottish Widows urged 
him to take advice from an IFA before he made a decision. And I also note that Mr A himself 
has stated his ability to read the documents Scottish Widows had sent him wasnt marred by 
the fact that he hadnt received advice from an IFA. So, given the material provided, the 
recommendation to take financial advice, and Mr As own assertion that he was capable of 
reading the material provided, I dont consider that the quotation was either unclear or mis-
leading. Many pension providers consider a single life annuity standard. So its common for initial 
quotations to cover a single life annuity, or a reduced single life annuity plus tax-free cash. I 
acknowledge that Mr A doesnt agree. He feels that the quotation he was sent should clearly 
show  in plain English  that a spouses pension wasnt included. But I consider that the 
material sent did include clarity about the annuity quoted. The 19 January 2003 quotation 
stated: Pension Basis: This quotation has been prepared on a standard basis. If you would 
like a quotation on a different basis please let us know, if you would like to provide a 
widow(er)s pension for your spouse we will need evidence of their age and marital status. 
While I acknowledge that Mr A read this last sentence as a sales pitch, I dont agree theres 
any evidence elsewhere in the 19 January 2003 quotation that a spouses pension had been 
included in the quotation. And I consider that the statement shows that the figures quoted 
dont already include a widow(er)s pension. I do appreciate that Mr A was expecting one to 
be included, given what hed experienced with other pensions. But I dont consider that 
theres a lack of clarity in this quotation, especially given the other information Scottish 
Widows ensured Mr A had access to. 
The 19 January 2003 quotation also stated: The quotation is just an example of the type of 
benefits you can have. Our Key Features gives details of other types of pensions available. If 
you would like other quotations before making up your mind then please ask us and we will 
provide alternative figures. But Mr A didnt take the opportunity to request further quotations. 
He couldve asked for additional quotations if hed considered he needed more clarity. So I 
cant hold Scottish Widows responsible for only producing one set of quotations.
I also consider that the Payment Authority form, which Mr A signed on 5 March 2003, 
presented the options clearly. Option 1 was for a pension to the policyholder of £10,496.52 
each year, with the pension for the Widow(er) marked as N/A. Option 2 was for a reduced 
pension to the policyholder of £8110.92 each year, plus a tax-free cash sum of £25,215,56. 
Again, the pension for the Widow(er) was marked as N/A. So, taking all of the evidence 
into account, I dont agree that Mr A was mis-sold his annuity.
I think it might help Mr A to understand that if hed used his pension money built up with 
Scottish Widows to buy a spouses pension alongside his own pension, the starting level of 
pension he received wouldve been lower. Scottish Widows havent deprived him of a 
spouses pension that was rightfully his. It was only available to him if he selected it as an 
option at the time of retirement and paid for it using his pension money. I acknowledge that 
some of Mr As other pensions didnt work like that. But that is how the pension money hed 
built up with Scottish Widows worked. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Scottish Widows did nothing wrong. I consider that they 
provided enough background material for Mr A to be able to understand the quotations 
theyd provided. I also consider that the quotations themselves didnt give the impression 
that a spouses pension had been included. So, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but Im not 
going to ask Scottish Widows to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman