DRN-3127781
The complaint
Ms P complains Ageas unfairly refused a claim against her landlord insurance policy.
What happened
In January 21 tenants left Ms Ps property. Damage was found during a post-tenancy 
inspection. In February 21 Ms P made a claim on her Ageas landlord policy - branded as 
Rentguard.
Ms P wasnt sure which insured peril to claim against  but she said she thought it might be 
accidental damage (AD). Ageas didnt accept the claim. In response to a complaint from 
Ms P it said a policy condition requiring property inspections every six months hadnt been 
met. It felt regular inspections would have mitigated the damage. It also felt most of the 
damage was caused by wear and tear  something thats excluded by the policy. So it still 
refused to pay any of the claim. 
Our investigator felt Ageas decision was fair as the inspections condition in the policy had 
been breached. She also felt much of the damage wasnt AD  so wouldnt be covered by 
the policy anyway. Ms P didnt accept that assessment, so the complaint was passed to me.
In November 21 I sent Ms P my thoughts on the complaint. I explained why I didnt intend to 
require Ageas to settle the claim or do anything differently. Ive provided my explanation 
here. 
I first explained that I thought it possible Ms P hadnt breached Ageas policys inspection 
condition. I gave these reasons.
It seems Ms P had a Rentguard branded policy from August 19. However, 
the initial policy seems (from the policy document Ms P provided) to have been 
provided by a different insurer  Ill call it insurer B. This had a requirement for an 
inspection only every 12 months.
When insurer Bs policy expired Ms P was provided with another Rentguard 
branded policy in August 20. But it was provided by Ageas. It required an inspection 
every six months. 
So it seems Ageas only insured Ms P from 31 August 20. Six months hadnt 
passed by the time of the tenants departure and the post tenancy inspection. So its 
possible the inspection condition, for the Ageas policy the claim is against, wasnt 
breached.
But I said that, even if I accepted Ms P hadnt breached the condition, based on what Id 
seen I still wouldnt say Ageas was unfair to refuse the claim. I set out that for a successful 
claim the policyholder is required to show any loss was caused by one of the policys insured 
perils. In this case Ms P said it was (AD). That is defined by the policy terms as:
A sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific, violent, external event which is not due to 
negligence, misuse, mechanical or electrical fault or reckless activity and occurs at a 
single identifiable time and place and independent of all other causes.
I said that Ageas, in its file, had also referred to causes that are excluded under the AD 
cover. Relevant ones include scratching or denting and rust, corrosion, wear, tear or 
depreciation, or other gradually operating cause. It feels the damage is largely caused by 
wear and tear or poor care.
 
I explained that for me to say Ageas should pay for any item Ms P had claimed for I would 
need to be persuaded that that the damage most likely:
was caused by an event that broadly meets the AD definition and
happened between the four months from 31 August 20 to 8 January 21 (when Ageas 
was the insurer) rather than during the 44 months from when the tenancy started in 
2016 up to 30 August 20 (when Ageas wasnt the insurer).
I said based on what Id seen so far, I wasnt persuaded any of the damage claimed for most 
likely met both of those requirements. I said that having considered the post tenancy 
inventory, photos and other information. 
I added that it seemed fair for Ageas to describe the majority of the damage as wear and 
tear. I felt, from the photos provided, that it looked to be largely damage that had happened 
over time, wear and tear or through poor care. I said Ms P hadnt provided much to explain 
how any of the damage was AD. 
I noted the tenants had explained some damage was caused by step ladders falling off a 
cupboard. I said that might be considered AD. I said there may be some other losses that 
could, without further supporting evidence, perhaps be considered AD. However, I added I 
would still need to think the AD most likely occurred in the four-month period from 31 August 
20 rather than during the much longer 44 months before that date. And I felt on the balance 
of probabilities I would struggle to reach that conclusion. 
Ms P didnt agree with my findings. She asked for a final decision and provided a few 
comments. Ive responded to those below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P says some of the damage that could be considered AD did happen within the four-
month period from August 20. To support that shes quoted a phone call with one of the 
tenants. It took place after the tenants had left the property. Ms P has asked why she hadnt 
been told about the accidents when they had happened. The tenant explained it was 
because the accidents had just happened. Ive considered this, but unfortunately for Ms P 
its not enough to persuade me that any of the damage, that might be considered AD, most 
likely took place in the relevant four months rather than the prior 44.  
Ms P also says she didnt receive a copy of the policy wording in August 20. I accept that is 
possible. However, I cant see how it would change the outcome of this complaint. As far as 
Ive seen those policy terms are very similar to those provided to her by insurer B.  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require to Ageas Insurance Limited to settle Ms Ps 
claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman