DRN-3204574
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to him irresponsibly. 
Mr B is being represented in this complaint by Miss M. For simplicity Ive referred to the 
representatives actions as being those of Mr B.
  
What happened
Mr B had three credit card accounts with Capital One. Account ending *6522 was opened in 
June 2010 with a credit limit of £200. Account ending *4456 was opened in July 2015 with a 
limit of £1,000. This was then paid off and closed in June 2016. Account ending *6473 was 
opened in December 2016 with a limit of £1,500. Mr B then experienced financial difficulties 
and felt that Capital One shouldve identified he was reliant on payday loans and other 
borrowing when they processed his application for credit. So he complained that Capital One 
had lent to him irresponsibly. 
Capital One responded and said account ending *6522 was out of time on the basis it had 
been raised more than six years after the account opening. In relation to accounts ending 
*4456 and *6473, Capital One said the credit limit on both accounts had never been 
increased. And, when opening the accounts, they considered information from Mr Bs 
application and his credit file but there were no indicators that opening the credit card 
account would be unaffordable. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and I can see our investigator shared his view in 
relation to account ending *6522 being in time. I can see Capital One then consented to our 
service looking into this. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He thought Capital One hadnt lent irresponsibly 
in relation to account ending *6522 and *6473. In relation to account ending *4456, he 
thought the decision to lend was irresponsible and recommended Capital One refund all 
interest and charges and pay compensation of £100 to Mr B. Capital One agreed but Mr B 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
Account ending *6522
When this account was opened, the relevant guidance came from the Office of Fair 
Tradings Irresponsible Lending Guidance. There was no set list of checks a lender needed 
to complete. But the checks shouldve been proportionate to the circumstances of each loan 
 which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and the prospective 
borrowers borrowing history. 
Given the passage of time, Capital One no longer hold information showing the checks they 
carried out. I can see the credit card agreement for this account was signed by Mr B in June 
2010, so I dont think its unreasonable for Capital One to no longer have this information. 
Looking at Capital Ones response to Mr Bs complaint, they say they relied on information 
on Mr Bs application and credit file when deciding whether to lend on the other two 
accounts. Capital One dont have Mr Bs application, so, when looking at this part of the 
complaint, Ive considered what Mr Bs credit file will have shown.
I think its important firstly to consider the credit being offered here was £200. So, I dont 
think Capital One needed to carry out the same level of detailed searches they would 
ordinarily be expected to carry out for a higher credit limit. Mr Bs credit file doesnt show any 
adverse information in the period leading up to this account opening. And, I cant see Mr B 
has provided any information which suggests the borrowing was unaffordable for him at the 
time the account was opened. So, based on the information I do have, I think its more likely 
than not Capital Ones decision to lend wasnt irresponsible.     
Account ending *4456
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Capital One carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Capital One needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. 
CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information Capital One may have wanted 
to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors 
a firm must consider and refers to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and 
whether to obtain additional information from the customer and any other sources of 
information to use.    
   
Capital One is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, when opening the 
account, Capital One say they used data from Mr Bs application form and information from 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). This shows Capital One took into account Mr Bs 
salary and also how he was performing against other accounts. Capital One say Mr Bs 
credit file shows two defaulted accounts. And, even though they werent recent to his 
application, one of those defaulted balances had been settled while the other was being 
reduced. Capital One say all Mr Bs active accounts were in good order and no late markers 
had been applied in the 12 months leading up to this account being opened.  
Given what this information shows, I dont think the checks carried out by Capital One are 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. The information provided by the CRAs 
shows Mr B has five open accounts, two of these being credit card accounts  one of those 
being account ending *6522. Both of these accounts are very close to their respective credit limit, one is at 99% and the other is at 93%. The latter is account ending *6522 and Capital 
One wouldve seen the credit limit for this account has remained at £200 for the last five 
years but it hasnt yet been settled and Mr B had only ever made his required monthly 
minimum payment on the account. While this could well be seen as an attempt by a 
customer to demonstrate good monthly account management to improve their credit rating, I 
think, when taking into account the high utilisation of Mr Bs credit on his two credit card 
accounts at the time, Capital One shouldve carried out further checks. And, I think Capital 
One shouldve asked to see Mr Bs bank statements to get a picture of his income and 
expenditure and to see how he was managing his account. 
Given that I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed when offering 
credit for this account, the next point Ive considered is, if reasonable and proportionate 
checks had been completed, would they more likely than not have shown that Mr B was 
more likely than not unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent. 
To help decide this, Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements for a three-month period leading 
up to the opening of this credit card account. This shows Mr B is consistently overdrawn 
through this period and, even when his income is deposited in his account, this still doesnt 
bring his account into credit. And, generally, his monthly expenditure outweighs his income. 
For example, his April 2015 statement shows his total deposits the month before was 
£1,177.43 and his total debits were £1,402.70. Its also important to note that Mr Bs planned 
overdraft limit is £1,630 and there are a number of occasions through this period when Mr B 
is close to this limit.   
Taking this all into account, I think the combination of Mr Bs high utilisation of existing credit, 
only making minimum payments on account ending *6522 and his bank statements show he 
wouldnt be able to repay any borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, I feel if Capital One 
had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks it wouldve showed Mr B being in a 
difficult financial position and not being able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner 
and without any undue difficulty. 
 
Account ending *6473
When this account was opened, Capital One say they again considered information on      
Mr Bs application form and data from the CRAs. The information supplied by the CRAs at 
that point shows one active credit card account, this being account ending *6522. And, the 
utilisation from this has come down from 93% (when account ending *4456 was opened) to 
85%. The information from Mr Bs application shows his salary has increased from the point 
account ending *4456 was opened  something which is supported by Mr Bs bank 
statements. And, Capital One have also pointed out that account ending *4456 was settled 
in a year without any late or missed payments. The information from the CRAs also doesnt 
show any new defaults or late payment markers from when account ending *4456 was 
opened.
Taking this information into account, I think the checks carried out by Capital One were 
reasonable and proportionate, so I dont think they needed to carry out any further checks 
beyond those they did. And, given what the information shows, I think they made a fair 
lending decision.  
Gambling problem 
Mr B says he was using the credit on these accounts for gambling transactions. Mr Bs 
statements do show some payments relating to gambling transactions although I cant see any information which shows that Mr B made Capital One aware of any gambling problems. 
And, I havent seen any evidence which shows the gambling transactions were showing 
frequently on his bank statements and therefore wouldve been picked up by Capital One if 
they had requested Mr Bs bank statements when opening account ending *4456. I also 
havent seen any evidence which shows that Capital One did check Mr Bs credit card 
statements so they wouldve been unaware what the credit cards were being used for.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Capital One lent irresponsibly to Mr B when they opened account 
ending *4456. I therefore consider this is irresponsible lending and Capital One should put 
this right. So, they should refund all interest, fees and charges accrued or incurred on 
account ending *4456 from the date it was opened to the date the account was closed. This 
would put Mr B back in the position he would have been in had the account not been 
opened. Capital One should also add 8% simple interest to the refund amount. Capital One 
should also pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by having to 
borrow money to clear this debt.    
Capital One should provide Mr B with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Capital One (Europe) plc must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman