DRN-4091002
The complaint
Miss R complains Ikano Bank AB (publ) didnt set up the direct debit for repayments to her 
loan, leading to her going into arrears with a default ultimately being recorded.
I can see a representative supported Miss R in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill 
just refer to her in this decision. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Miss R took out a loan of £3,230 to pay for some furniture. The loan was over two years, 
with 47 regular monthly repayments expected of £67.30  with the final payment of £66.90 
being due at the end of the two years. The loan was taken out in June 2021, and I 
understand the first payment was expected on 27 October 2021.
Payments werent made, and as a result Ikano registered a default on Miss Rs credit file. 
Following this, Miss R complained, as shed discussed this with her bank, L, who said no 
direct debit for repayment of the loan had ever been set up by Ikano  but she had evidence 
theyd said they would set it up.
Ikano said the first payment was due on 27 October 2021, but the direct debit instruction was 
cancelled on 11 August 2021. Ikano said they understood Miss R had told them she didnt 
cancel this, but the instruction was cancelled by payer meaning it was cancelled by Miss R 
or her bank. They said they wouldnt have cancelled her direct debit without telling her.
Ikano added theyd written to her, and now know she wasnt at the address  but that wasnt 
something shed told them prior to this. They also looked at their attempts to contact her by 
phone, and felt theyd made reasonable efforts. They said as no payments were made they 
issued a default notice on 30 December 2021 requiring her to pay a specific amount, by a 
specific date. But, as no payment was made, they then registered the default on 
27 January 2022. Ikano had also added some charges because of the missed payments. 
Overall they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this Miss R asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but 
found Ikano had acted correctly.
Miss R didnt accept this. She said shed proven no direct debit was ever set up by Ikano  
so, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before deciding the complaint, I asked our Investigator to gather more information from 
Ikano, and Miss Rs bank, to help me reach a fair outcome.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The date of the agreement was 19 June 2021, with the first payment due to come out 
27 October 2021.
In between this time, Ikanos internal notes show the direct debit was cancelled on 
11 August 2021. Ikano say the information sent to them when this was cancelled was 
Instruction cancelled by Payer  and they said this means either Miss R cancelled it, or her 
bank did.
To help me decide the outcome of the case, we asked Ikano what they did when the direct 
debit was cancelled. They said usually theyd sent a text and a letter but it seems they 
werent triggered on this occasion.
We also contacted Miss Rs bank  and they told us no direct debit was ever set up.
So, if no direct debit was ever set up, then Miss R couldnt have cancelled it, and it seems it 
wasnt cancelled by her bank as theyve no record of it at all.
On 27 September 2021 Ikano wrote to Miss R and said:
Well start taking payment soon so please check your Direct Debit details are correct
Weve set up your Direct Debit payments to come from:
The letter goes on to list Miss Rs correct account details, and says theyll start taking 
payments automatically from 27 October 2021.
But, this was incorrect as when the letter was sent on 27 September the direct debit had 
seemingly already been cancelled six weeks earlier.
Between 27 October 2021 when the first payment was due, and 27 January 2022 when 
Ikano defaulted the account, I wanted to understand if Miss R was in a position to pay the 
loan.
The reason this is important, is because regardless of whether Ikano made an error, if she 
couldnt have afforded to pay the direct debit then shed still be in the same position. But, on 
each of the direct debit dates, had the direct debit been collected this would have gone 
through as she could have afforded it.
So, as things stand then, Im satisfied Ikano made an error leading to the direct debit not 
being collected  and had they not made this error, it would have gone through without any 
issues.
Next, I need to look at what Ikano said they did following the missed payments  to see if 
theyve done enough to mitigate their error.
Ikano sent letters  and they say because of their letters they sent, they couldnt do 
anymore. Miss R didnt receive Ikanos letters, as she had to move away from home for a 
period of time to look after a sick relative. Ikano say its Miss Rs responsibility to update her 
address with them.
While Miss Rs not said this, I do think the 27 September 2021 letter that says her direct 
debit will come out in a month is a reasonable explanation for her not having updated Ikano 
about her not being at home. She was told by Ikano in writing the direct debit was set up so 
expected it to just go through. Combined with Ikano not sending a letter or text when the direct debit was seemingly cancelled on 11 August 2021 means she really had no reason to 
think the payments wouldnt go through as expected.
Ikano also say they sent four text messages:
29 October 2021  Your payment has not been received, please call Ikano Bank 
onquoting reference number
11 November 2021  Further to our recent communication your payment has still not 
been received, please call Ikano Bank onquoting reference number
7 December 2021  The matter is now urgent and we need to speak to you, please 
call Ikano Bank urgently onquoting reference number
23 December 2021  This is your last opportunity to contact us, please call Ikano 
Bank urgently on quoting reference number
Miss R said when first contacting Ikano that the phone number they held for her was actually 
a number for her daughter. And, she said when these text messages would have been sent 
then her daughter would have panicked and contacted her  so shed have been able to sort 
things out.
In a later call, Miss R has since spoken to her daughter, and says her daughter told her no 
text messages were received. Ikano do confirm the phone number is correct for Miss Rs 
daughter later on.
Generally, our service would accept where there has been evidence of texts being sent, then 
the financial business have done everything they should.
But here in the very first call, Miss R said her daughter would have contacted her if shed 
received any texts  this was before she fully understood what the issues were. And, in a 
second call on the same day, has asked her daughter who said she didnt get any texts.
Given both of these conversations were in the early stages of Miss Rs conversations with 
Ikano meaning Miss R likely wouldnt have fully understood how pivotal this information 
could be, Im persuaded by these recollections.
In summary then, Ive found no evidence Miss R or her bank cancelled the direct debit, 
leaving me to conclude Ikano didnt set it up properly. Despite this, they told Miss R the 
direct debit was set up properly, and because of that she didnt feel the need to tell Ikano 
about her moving to look after family so she didnt get their letters  and no texts were 
received to notify her of the missed payments.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss R asked if the default added by the debt purchaser would be removed.
Ikano didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In answer to Miss Rs question yes, the default added by the debt purchaser will be 
removed. Only one default should be applied for an account, and Im requiring Ikano to take 
the account back from the debt purchaser.This would in theory mean Ikano then become responsible for the default  the debt 
purchaser shouldnt be recording anything anymore, as this account is no longer with them.
But, in the second part of my direction for Ikano, Im telling them to remove the default. So, 
the next effect of this is the default (regardless of who is currently reporting it) will be 
removed.
As Miss R hasnt raised any further queries about the outcome, and Ikano didnt reply by the 
deadline, Ive seen no reason to change the outcome Ive reached, and still require Ikano to 
carry out the actions in the next section.
Putting things right
I require Ikano to:
Arrange to take the account back from the debt purchaser
Remove the default from Miss Rs credit file
Remove all charges applied due to the missed payments / default being applied
Agree a new suitable repayment plan with Miss R for repayment of the debt
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman