DRN-3834537
The complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans continued to
charge him interest on his loan when he agreed a repayment plan with it.
What happened
Mr A says he took out the loan in 2009 but by 2012 was in financial difficulties. He says he
agreed a Debt Management Plan with an organisation I will call S and says Everyday
Loans agreed to reduce his monthly repayments. Mr A says interest was not removed which
meant he owed about £1,700 in 2017. He says he later found out a default had been
registered on his credit file and a Count Court Judgement (CCJ) obtained by a third-party
debt collection business. Mr A would like interest refunded and says Everyday Loans didnt
act appropriately or offer any forbearance.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to receive a lower payment with S but extended the length of
the loan. It says it reduced the interest rate and allowed a payment break. It also says Mr A
missed payments from August 2015 and wrote to S and tried to contact Mr A but without
success. Everyday Loans says it defaulted the account after six months of arrears in 2016.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and thought the default ought
to have been registered in 2012 as it clear Mr A was in financial difficulties. The investigator
thought Everyday Loans acted fairly by reducing the interest rate, but the default would have
stopped all interest and charges. The investigator recommended interest be refunded.
Everyday Loans disagrees with that view and says it is not responsible for what S may have
told Mr A.
I asked both sides for further information and Mr A says he wanted to avoid the loan
defaulting in 2012 and says he had problems with his mail. Everyday Loans says it tried to
contact Mr A in 2015 via different methods but didnt receive a response.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I didnt uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I would explain.
I said that lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I could see that Everyday Loans agreed to Ss repayment proposal and 
agreed to extend the loan period to allow smaller monthly repayments. I could also see 
Everyday Loans allowed payment holidays and reduced the interest rate by well over half of 
the agreed rate.
So, was satisfied that Everyday Loans did act positively and sympathetically and tried to help 
Mr A. I appreciated that due to the passage of time that both sides have not been able to 
provide some correspondence from 2011 to 2012 but I could see from Ss letter to Mr A that 
it told him that creditors may continue to charge interest or take legal action. So, I thought on 
balance this was Mr As account and his responsibility to agree with S and Everyday Loans 
an agreement when he was in financial difficulties. I said I cant fairly hold Everyday Loans 
responsible for what S did or told Mr A about the agreement. I said I would have expected S 
to have explained the position to Mr A about the increased loan term agreement and that 
interest would continue to be charged. And I would have expected Mr A to have monitored 
his account statements and noticed the changes. I thought it likely Mr A would have been 
sent account statements which would have shown the new agreement and that he ought to 
have kept in touch with S about his plan.
I appreciated that the investigator says a default should have been registered in 2012 which 
is what Mr A says ought to have happened. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO)
provides guidance on that and says a default should be registered between three and six
months of arrears or where the relationship between the parties has broken down. I was
satisfied that a new agreement was agreed here in 2012 and that it cant be said the
relationship had at that time broken down in these circumstances.
I was satisfied that Mr A told us that he wanted to avoid a default being registered in 2012
and I said I understand why he would say that. And I thought that is why he entered into the 
plan with S to avoid a default being registered. I couldnt see how Mr A could have avoided a 
default unless he agreed to the new loan terms.
I could see Mr A missed agreed payments from 2015 and so I didnt think Everyday Loans
made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a default at that stage. I appreciated Mr A
says he didnt receive correspondence, but I said that is not something I can fairly hold 
Everyday Loans responsible for as it isnt involved in the delivery of mail. I was satisfied that 
Everyday Loans, having looked at its records, tried to contact S and tried to contact Mr A by 
e-mail as well as by telephone. I said I would have expected Mr A to have realised payments 
had stopped and to ensure he updated Everyday Loans with his up to date contact details if 
they had changed.
Overall, my provisional view was that Everyday Loans did try and help Mr A and helped him
avoid his account being defaulted in 2012 which I was satisfied is what he wanted to avoid.
Mr A has replied to my provisional view and doesnt accept it. He says he thought S had 
agreed an interest free plan and to the best of his knowledge Everyday Loans had agreed to 
freeze interest as well as charges. Mr A says he had problems with his mail and in any event 
says the relationship with Everyday Loans had broken down about a year before the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I have made clear that I cant fairly hold Everyday Loans responsible for the actions of S and 
would have expected S to have clearly told Mr A what was agreed. Im satisfied, as Mr A has 
told us he wanted to avoid a default, that I cant see what else could have been done to 
avoid a default. The new agreement I find was the only way to achieve that.
Im satisfied that Everyday Lending after about six months of arrears registered a default 
which followed from around August/September 2015. I appreciate Mr A says the payments 
had stopped before that date, but I can see that there were some overpayments which 
meant the correct time period was around August/September 2015 with the default being 
registered some six months later.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman