DRN-2563962
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim
they made on their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual travel insurance policy in January 2018. In June 2018, Mr
R underwent surgery to remove his appendix. He let Great Lakes know about the surgery
and paid an additional premium for it to be covered for the remainder of the policy year. Mr
and Mrs R booked a trip on 3 August 2018 and planned to depart on 24 February 2019.
Unfortunately, following his surgery, Mr R began to suffer from diarrhoea. He saw his GP in
December 2018, complaining of bowel symptoms. These didnt resolve and on 7 January
2019, the GP decided to refer him back to the consultant whod carried out the
appendectomy surgery to look into whether Mr R needed a colonoscopy.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy renewed on 7 January 2019. They didnt declare any medical
conditions on their new policy. Mr R was ultimately referred for a colonoscopy under the two-
week referral scheme on 5 February 2019 and the holiday was cancelled. Mr and Mrs R
made a cancellation claim for the costs which they hadnt been able to recover from
elsewhere.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims related to
conditions for which a policyholder was undergoing at the time the holiday was booked or
the policy was taken out. As Mr Rs GP had written to the consultant to investigate whether
he needed a colonoscopy two days before the policy renewed, Great Lakes said the claim
fell within the scope of this exclusion.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with Great Lakes decision. They said at the time theyd booked
the trip; Mr R had been fit and healthy. And they felt Great Lakes should consider the claim
under the 2018 policy rather than the 2019 one. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He felt it was
reasonable for Mr R to believe that conditions that arose during one policy year should be
covered in principle following renewal. So he thought Mr R had a reasonable expectation
that his claim should be covered. He didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the pre-
existing medical condition exclusion to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. He recommended
that Great Lakes should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions
of the policy.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that when the policy renewed in January 2019, Mr and Mrs R
hadnt declared any medical conditions, even though this was a new policy. So it thought the
exclusion clause should apply.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And it
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms, the
available evidence and the circumstances to decide whether Great Lakes handled Mr and
Mrs Rs claim fairly.
What do the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy say?
Ive first considered the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy. The Medical Exclusions section
states:
There is no cover under this policy:
Either, at the time of taking out this policy for:
Any Medical Condition for which You or any other person upon whom travel 
depends, such as a Close Relative, have received a terminal prognosis.
Any Medical Condition that You are aware of but which has not had a formal 
diagnosis.
Any Medical Condition for which You are on a waiting list for or have knowledge of 
the need for surgery, treatment or investigation at a hospital, clinic or nursing home.
The policy also includes Important Medical Questions. These ask:
Anyone named under this policy must have read and answered the following three
Important Medical Questions.
1. Have You received treatment (including surgery, tests or investigations) or been
prescribed medication for any Pre- Existing Medical Condition within the last twelve months?
(see definition of Pre-Existing Medical Condition on page 5)
2. Have You seen a specialist or been admitted to hospital overnight for any other Medical
Condition within the last twelve months?
3. Are You aware of any circumstances that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a
claim on this policy?
If You have answered No to all three Important Medical Questions above, You do not need
to contact Healthcheck.
If a policyholder answers yes to one of the questions and their condition isnt listed as an
accepted condition, then a policyholder needs to contact Healthcheck to go through medical
screening.
Do these terms apply to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs claim?
Theres no dispute that Mr R underwent appendectomy surgery in June 2018. Its also clear
from the endorsement Great Lakes has now sent me that Mr R did declare this surgery at
this point and paid an additional premium for this condition to be covered during that policy
year.
Its also agreed that Mr R saw his GP with bowel symptoms on 13 December 2018. The
notes suggest these had presented following the removal of Mr Rs appendix. The GP
attributed the symptoms either to the surgery or to diverticular disease. Mr R saw the GP
again on 7 January 2019 suffering from the same symptoms and at this point, the GP
decided to get in touch with the consultant whod carried out the surgery to investigate
whether Mr R needed a colonoscopy.
Given the policy renewed on the same day Mr R saw his GP, I dont think its reasonable to
say he was under investigations or referral at the point the policy renewed. Especially given
the actual colonoscopy referral didnt happen until mid-February 2019. So I dont think itsreasonable for Great Lakes to rely on this particular term to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
But it seems to me that at the point the policy renewed, Mr R was experiencing and had
continued to experience bowel symptoms for several months. Hed seen the GP on 13
December 2018 and the notes show that at the point of renewal, his symptoms had
continued. The GP put the symptoms down either to the appendectomy or diverticular
disease. So it seems to me that there wasnt a formal diagnosis of Mr Rs symptoms and he
was aware of his symptoms at the point the policy renewed. Hed also been admitted to
hospital with appendicitis in June 2018. On his basis, I think Mr Rs illness does fall within
the scope of the exclusion clause.
Should the renewal be treated as continuous cover?
I dont currently agree that Mr and Mrs Rs policy was a continuation of the policy they
already had. At each renewal, a new contract of insurance begins. And any medical
conditions need to be re-declared. While the investigator didnt think this had been made
clear enough to Mr and Mrs R, I disagree. Thats because I asked Great Lakes for a copy of
the renewal letter that was sent to them in December 2018, ahead of their renewal. This
states:
Please note that cover is excluded for any defined pre-existing medical conditions. This
applies to all Insured PersonsYour pre-existing medical conditions must be disclosed to
the Medical Screening Helpline at each and every renewal, even if declared on a previous
policy.
Mr and Mrs Rs renewal schedule shows that they didnt declare and pay for any medical
conditions at renewal, including Mr Rs diverticular disease or appendectomy. So even if Mr
Rs did think his ongoing symptoms were linked to either of these conditions, he hadnt
declared them to Healthcheck ahead of or post renewal. This means Great Lakes hadnt
agreed to cover either condition or claims related to them. And I think the schedule, the
renewal invite and the policy terms were all clear enough that Mr R shouldve been prompted
to call Great Lakes to re-declare these conditions, given his circumstances.
On this basis, I currently think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusion for pre-
existing medical conditions to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, they reiterated that the 
first policy was taken out on 8 January 2018, which renewed on 7 January 2019. So they still 
considered it was a continuous policy to cover their pre-booked trip. They said that if theyd 
booked a sightseeing trip, theyd still have travelled, but Mr R was too tired to undertake a 
group walking tour. They said Mr R had declared his appendectomy at renewal in January 
2019 and that the call handler had remarked that he wasnt likely to need it removed again. 
Mr R had been fit and healthy when the trip was booked, once he was fully recovered from 
the appendectomy surgery. His symptoms had presented some months after the surgery. Up 
until the point of cancellation, Mr and Mrs R had still been hoping theyd be able to travel, as 
theyd hoped his lethargy would improve. And finally, at the time of renewal, Mr R hadnt 
been under investigation or referral hed only received a diagnosis in March 2019.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I still think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, while I understand Mr and Mrs R considered 
that the renewal of their policy in January 2019 represented a continuation of their previous 
contract with Great Lakes, I dont agree. The renewal formed a new contract with Great 
Lakes. So Great Lakes was entitled to reassess at this point whether it was prepared to 
cover Mr and Mrs R and if so, on what terms. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr R let me know that he had called Great Lakes 
Healthcheck service at renewal in January 2019 to discuss his and Mrs Rs medical 
conditions. So I asked Great Lakes if it was able to find a copy of this call. Ive now been 
able to listen to the call, which Great Lakes says took place in January 2019. Its clear Mr R 
did discuss his appendectomy with Great Lakes call handler and that the call handler did 
refer to Mr R not needing to have his appendix removed again. But during the call, Mr R also 
agreed with the call handler that his appendectomy would be excluded from cover. This 
meant that any claims which were related to Mr Rs surgery wouldnt be covered. 
Ive looked again at Mr Rs medical records. It remains the case that on 13 December 2018, 
Mr R saw his GP with loose stools, which had worsened following his surgery. This was 
affecting his sleep. The records state that this problem had been ongoing for some time. The 
GP put this down either to the appendectomy or diverticular disease. Its also clear that on 7 
January 2019 (the date of renewal), Mr R returned again to the GP because this medical 
issue had continued. The GP got in touch with Mr Rs consultant surgeon on that date to 
check whether Mr R needed to undergo another colonoscopy to investigate his symptoms. 
Mr R was formally referred for investigations around a month later. I think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to consider these symptoms to be a medical condition, in line with the policy terms.
So its still the case that at the point Mr Rs policy renewed, hed been experiencing 
symptoms for some time, which the GP considered might need looking into. The GP had 
also suggested that Mr Rs symptoms could be either linked to the appendectomy hed had a 
few months beforehand or diverticular disease. However, during his call with the 
Healthcheck service, Mr R didnt mention either these symptoms or the possible diagnoses.  
And he opted not to cover his appendectomy. 
I appreciate Mr R says his tiredness was the main cause of cancellation. But on the claim 
form, the GP stated that Mr R cancelled due to diverticular disease and lethargy. He 
specifically stated that Mr R had a previous history of the condition and linked it to the 
symptoms Mr R had experienced since December 2018. And he stated that Mr R had been 
on regular medication for his symptoms since 18 December 2018.  On this basis, I still think 
it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes rely on the available medical evidence to 
conclude that Mr Rs symptoms fell within the scope of the exclusion clause.
Overall, I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Rs position, because I appreciate theyve been left 
out of pocket and Im sorry to hear about Mr Rs ill-health. But I think it was fair for Great 
Lakes to rely on its exclusion clause to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman