DRN-3921749
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) regarding his business borrowing.
What happened
In 2008, Mr B borrowed £885,000 from RBS to support the purchase of a property. 
Alongside the loan, Mr B bought an interest rate hedging product (IRHP)  an interest rate 
swap agreement. 
Later, RBS reviewed the sale of the IRHP in line with the voluntary scheme agreed with the 
Financial Conduct Authority. The result of the review was that RBS said the IRHP should be 
cancelled. The bank offered Mr B redress of £149,015.95, including interest and 
consequential losses, in full and final settlement. Mr B accepted the offer in April 2016. 
Mr Bs loan account built up substantial arrears, and there were also debts on Mr Bs current 
accounts. In September 2021 RBS issued a final demand for all the outstanding debt.
Mr B complained to RBS that the loan should have been cancelled in 2016 at the same time 
as the IRHP. He also said the banks calculations of the debt in the final demand were 
incorrect. In particular, interest shouldnt have charged on the loan because the agreement 
should have been cancelled in 2016. The bank didnt agree with Mr B.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that RBS needed to do anything further. He gave these reasons, 
in summary:
This service isnt able to consider the part of the complaint about the IRHP and the 
cancellation of the loan in 2016. Our rules say that Mr B had six months from the time 
of the banks IRHP offer letter to bring his complaint to us. But he didnt come to us 
until 2021, so this part of his complaint is out of time. Even if the complaint were in 
time, the parties had agreed a full and final settlement of the IRHP complaint in 2016, 
so we wouldnt consider the complaint.
The investigator was satisfied that the loan was in default in 2021, no repayments 
had been made for a number of years, and no mutually acceptable solution had been 
found. He couldnt see that the bank had made any errors in calculating the debt.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He made these points, in summary:
Although part of the complaint falls outside the services time limits, the past events 
show that the bank was already acting unfairly and unreasonably.
Following the result of the IRHP review, it wasnt fair and reasonable for the bank to 
refuse to consider whether the loan agreement should also have been torn up. The 
IRHP and loan were imposed at the same time and under the same conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I too have concluded that the bank doesnt need to do anything further.
Under our rules, Mr B is too late with his complaint about cancelling the loan as part of the 
IRHP settlement. To complain about the IRHP review offer, he should have come to us 
during the autumn of 2016. We do have powers to accept a late complaint if exceptional 
circumstances prevented the customer complaining earlier, but I cant see any such 
circumstances in this case. In any event, even if there were no time bar to the complaint, I 
would say that this isnt a complaint we should consider. Thats because Mr B accepted 
RBSs offer following the IRHP review. The settlement signed by Mr B contained a statement 
that it was full and final settlement of any claims, actions, liabilities, costs or demands you 
may have against the bank arising under or in any way connected with the sale of the 
interest rate hedging product. The dispute about the IRHP, and about how to put things 
right, has already been settled between the parties with a legally binding agreement. I 
therefore wouldnt re-open the matter.
I dont think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably when it issued its final demand in 2021. Im 
satisfied that the loan was in default, repayments had ceased and there was no prospect of 
a solution that would keep the loan open. 
Mr B says that the loan balance included in the banks 2021 repayment calculation was 
considerably higher than shown in his rollover loan statement in June 2018. But as the 
investigator has pointed out, the loan interest from January 2019 onwards was applied to the 
loan balance, rather than being paid from Mr Bs current account overdraft, with the result 
that the loan balance increased. I can see no error in the banks calculations.
Mr B says no interest should have been added to the loan because he argues that the loan 
agreement should have been cancelled in 2016. But Im satisfied that there was no 
agreement to cancel the loan agreement in 2016. For reasons Ive given above, Mr Bs 
argument that the loan should have been cancelled isnt a complaint I can consider.
Mr B has also suggested that the bank couldnt legally enforce the loan debt. In my view, as 
Mr B borrowed the money, its not unfair or unreasonable for the bank to seek repayment. It 
would be for the courts, not this service, to determine whether the debt is legally 
enforceable.
I realise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I recognise the strength of his 
feelings about the complaint. But I dont find that RBS needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman