DRN-3980644
The complaint
Mr O complains Monzo Bank Ltd added his details to a fraud database.
What happened
Mr O received a payment into his Monzo account. Monzo was contacted by the sending 
bank and told the payment had been raised as fraudulent by the sender.
Monzo closed Mr Os account and held onto the credit balance for a couple of weeks before 
releasing it to another of Mr Os accounts. Mr O then found he couldnt open accounts at 
other banks and realised Monzo had added his details to a fraud database.
Mr O complained and Monzo responded to say it had reviewed its decision to add Mr Os 
details to the fraud database and couldnt see it had made an error. Monzo didnt agree to 
remove Mr Os details.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things and didnt 
think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. The investigator was satisfied a payment to Mr Os 
account had been flagged as fraudulent.
Mr O told the investigator the payment was for the sale of shoes, but he couldnt prove this. 
The investigator asked for anything Mr O had to show he was selling things at this time, like 
messages from buyers, online adverts, invoices or postal receipts.
Mr O sent in a message confirming the sale of some perfume. Mr O said he had further 
evidence, a spreadsheet showing the sales, but didnt provide this. Mr O said the sale had 
taken place two years earlier and it wasnt reasonable for him to still have evidence.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Monzo to load Mr Os details to a fraud database it needs to be satisfied Mr O received a 
fraudulent to his account, and Mr O was somehow complicit in the receipt of the money.
Ive seen the message from the sending bank, Im satisfied the person sending the money to 
Mr O raised the payment as fraudulent with their bank.
For me to be satisfied Mr O wasnt complicit in the receipt of this fraudulent payment, Id 
want to see some proof of what the payment was for. Mr O didnt know the sender, so Id 
expect Mr O to have some evidence about what the payment was for.
Im sympathetic to the fact this happened two years ago, so I wouldnt expect Mr O to have 
every piece of information available to hand. But, despite Mr O saying he has lots of 
evidence about payments hes received, hes only sent in one message from a buyer.
And this message is a recent one, Mr Os contacted the buyer two years after the payment. 
Mr O hasnt provided anything to show any sales, of anything, from two years ago.
I dont think its unreasonable for Mr O to have something, emails or instant messages from 
the time, proof of postage or something to show Mr O was advertising the sales.
And the payment flagged as fraudulent Mr O received was £350. This was quite a large 
payment compared to most of the other payments Mr O received  and also a relatively 
expensive pair, or pairs, of shoes.
Id expect Mr O to have something to show the original purchase of these shoes, messages 
about the sale and where to send them, and Id imagine Mr O would insure the package. But 
Mr O has nothing to show this payment was legitimate, or anything else from the time to 
show he was selling items online.
Its clear Mr O has the details for buyers from two years ago, he was able to message one 
about the perfume purchase. Its odd Mr O has contact details for one buyer but hasnt been 
able to contact any of the others.
Since Monzo has shown the payment Mr O received was fraudulent, and Mr O has nothing 
to show the payment was legitimate, I think Mr O was somehow complicit in the fraudulent 
payment.
Because of this, I dont think Monzo needs to remove Mr O from the fraud database.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman