DRN-3439404
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about Nelson Insurance Company Ltds (NIC) decision to decline his car 
insurance claim after his car was stolen. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr Ps car was stolen so he made a claim on his policy with NIC. NIC 
considered the claim but said that Mr P didnt lock his car before it was stolen, so he hadnt 
met the terms and conditions of his policy by taking care of his vehicle. It asked a forensic 
team that specialises in car theft claims to review CCTV footage it had obtained of the theft. 
The team told NIC that from the CCTV itd seen, it was clear the car wasnt locked at the 
time it was stolen. So, NIC didnt accept the claim. 
Mr P was unhappy with NICs decision, so he made a complaint. NIC reviewed the complaint 
and sent a final response letter, in August 2021, which said it wasnt changing its decision. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He said 
the car was locked and he hadnt been treated fairly. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt unreasonable 
for NIC to rely on the expert report from the forensic team and conclude that the car was 
unlocked when it was stolen. 
Mr P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said NIC didnt know for 
certain that the car was unlocked when it was stolen, and it wasnt fair that his claim was 
decided based upon an assumption. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr P is unhappy that both NIC and the investigator cant say with complete certainty that his 
car was unlocked when it was stolen. However, where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Mr Ps policy says that NIC is entitled to decline a claim for theft if its satisfied Mr P failed to 
take all reasonable precautions to safeguard his vehicle from loss. Its a common term in 
motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether NIC has treated Mr P fairly and reasonably when declining this 
claim. 
Ive reviewed the report and the CCTV available to NIC and the forensic experts. Having 
done so, Im satisfied the report from the experts of the CCTV is fair and reasonable. The 
experts say that if Mr P locked his car the wing mirrors would be closed and when its 
unlocked, they would open and the lights on the mirrors and the hazard lights would flash. 
The CCTV Ive seen shows that the mirrors are open when the thieves approach the car. 
And the hazard lights didnt flash before the thief entered the vehicle. So, I understand that 
Mr P says he locked the car, but Im more persuaded by the expert report that says the car 
was most likely unlocked. And because I dont think the car was locked  on balance - then 
Im not satisfied Mr P took all reasonable precautions to make sure his car was safe. 
As a result, I dont think NIC has treated Mr P unfairly here and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman