DRN-3192441
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from Lex Autolease Ltd when she 
terminated a hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs C has provided detailed information about the service she received, and I wont repeat it 
all here. In summary, she complains about delays in the termination process, conflicting 
information about how much she owed, wrong invoices, and poor communication. She says 
she owes Lex Autolease £437.29 and that this was confirmed during a phone call. She 
wants compensation for the impact the poor service has had on her.
Lex Autolease says she owes £880.53. It offered to pay her £50 for the confusion caused by 
the reminder letters shed received; and £50 for the delay in processing her termination 
request.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude that Mrs C had made a financial loss and that she correctly owed £880.53. The 
investigator thought Lex Autoleases offer of £100 was fair and reasonable for the distress 
and inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs C said she agreed the sum was due but didnt think she should have to pay it because 
of the conflicting information shed received from Lex Autolease. She explained in some 
detail why she didnt think £100 was enough to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This included the prolonged nature of the distress, the threatening 
letters shed received and the time, stress, and emotional turmoil that Lex Autolease had 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs C and in my 
own words. There is a considerable amount of information here from both parties. Im not 
going to respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
How much does Mrs C owe?
In or around June 2020, Mrs C asked for her annual mileage to be altered and her monthly 
payments adjusted. This wasnt dealt with to her satisfaction and she raised a complaint. 
The payment due in August 2020 was placed in dispute. But, after the complaint was 
resolved, no arrangements were put in place to collect the August payment. It was only after 
the agreement ended that Lex Autolease told Mrs C this payment hadnt been collected and 
was still due. Whilst I appreciate Mrs C wasnt aware this payment had been missed, I find 
the sum (£333.92) is due, and I dont find Lex Autolease is obliged to write it off.
Mrs C was quoted two termination figures. If the agreement was terminated by the end of 
January, she would owe £546.61. If the agreement was terminated by the end of February, 
she would owe £437.29. Mrs C returned the required paperwork before the end of January, 
but there was a delay in Lex Autolease terminating the agreement. This meant the 
agreement wasnt ended until February. But, following her complaint, Lex Autolease 
backdated the termination to January. This means Mrs C owes £546.61. I can see why she 
feels shes been put in a worse position. But, had the termination taken place in February, 
she would have owed £437.29, plus another monthly payment of £286.25. So, instead of 
having to pay £723.54, she owes £546.61. And I think this is fair and reasonable because 
she returned the termination paperwork before the end of January.
For these reasons, I find Lex Autolease has acted fairly in asking Mrs C to pay it £880.53.
Has Mrs Cs credit file been affected?
Lex Autolease says the missed payment in August 2020 was not recorded on Mrs Cs credit 
file.
But it does seem to have recorded missed payments since March 2021. I dont think this is 
fair. The invoices Mrs C received, and the phone conversation she had, did not make it clear 
how much she owed. I dont think Mrs Cs credit file should be affected because of the 
confusion caused by Lex Autolease. And I think its understandable in the circumstances 
why she decided not to pay anything until her complaint is resolved. Mrs C has until 1 March 
to accept or reject this decision. I think its fair that Lex Autolease gives Mrs C a further four 
weeks to pay the amount she owes. On receipt of payment, I think Lex Autolease should 
remove the adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file.
Compensation
Lex Autolease should have provided a better service when Mrs C chose to end her 
agreement. I agree with Mrs C that its communication was confusing, and she received 
conflicting information about the amount she owed. She also received letters demanding 
payment which worried her. Its clear from what Mrs C has told us how upset she is about 
the mistakes that have been made. But this service is not a regulator and our awards are not 
designed to punish a business. I have to be fair to both parties here and, having considered 
everything very carefully, I dont think Lex Autoleases offer of £100 is unreasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should:
1. Pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
2. As outlined above, on receipt of the amount Mrs C owes, remove any adverse 
information recorded on her credit file and mark the agreement as settled. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman