DRN-4051274
The complaint
Mr W complains about the value esure Insurance Limited placed on his car after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. Based on the values provided 
by trade guides and other supporting evidence she thought esure should increase the 
valuation of the car from £3,761 to £4,322.  
Having considered the evidence available to me, and the additional arguments esure has 
provided, I think the conclusion reached by the investigator is a fair and reasonable one for 
the following reasons:
While this service does have an established approach of using trade guides to help 
determine if an insurer has offered a fair market value for a vehicle, we also look at 
complaints on their own individual circumstances. Therefore, it wont always be 
appropriate to look at the trade guides in isolation and we will take additional 
information into account.
Here the trade guides provide a range of values from £3,475 to £4,680. 
Supporting information suggests similar cars are generally being advertised for 
around £4,400, a fair price is described by one platform as being £4,475 and an 
average as being £4,322. 
While advertised prices dont reflect actual sales prices, they do give an indication of 
potential market value. And they are helpful in situations such as this where a wide 
range is given by the trade guides with no obvious indications of what a fair price 
might be. 
I think the information available supports the valuation should be increased and a fair 
market value is likely to be within the higher range of the trade guides. I think £4,322 
more likely than not reflects a fair market value for Mr Ws car.
Putting things right
To put things right esure should pay an amount equivalent to the difference in the two 
valuations to Mr W. 
It should also add interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount from the date it made the 
original valuation payment to Mr W, to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against esure Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman