DRN-3841111
The complaint
Ms P complains about her mortgage with TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree. She 
complains that her mortgage is on a tracker interest rate but has not followed the Bank of 
England base rate. 
What happened
Ms P took out her mortgage in 2006 with Northern Rock. She borrowed around £170,000 on 
interest only terms over 23 years. The mortgage offer said that there was a fixed rate of 
4.79% for the first two years, and then the mortgage would revert to Northern Rocks 
standard variable rate (SVR)  with a discount of at least 0.25% after a further three years.
In 2008, Ms P asked Northern Rock to convert the mortgage to repayment terms, and it 
agreed to do so. In 2009, it was converted back to interest only on a temporary basis, and 
switched back to repayment terms in 2010. It has been a repayment mortgage ever since.  
Following the global financial crisis and Northern Rocks collapse, Ms Ps mortgage was 
moved to the government-owned successor lender. It was then sold on to TSB Bank plc in 
2016. From then on, TSB has been Ms Ps mortgage lender, managing it through its 
Whistletree brand.  
In recent years, Ms P has experienced financial difficulty and has struggled with the 
mortgage payments. She has asked Whistletree for help, and has also considered selling 
the property. She has had various discussions with Whistletree about options open to her, 
and has made three complaints. 
In the first complaint, in 2019, Ms P asked Whistletree for a new interest rate. It refused 
because it said she was in arrears at the time. Ms P complained, and Whistletree accepted 
that this was an error  it said that in fact the arrears were only £16, and Ms P had already 
made an overpayment of £100 to clear the arrears, so she wasnt in arrears at the time of 
her request. Ms P also complained that she hadnt been receiving mortgage statements, but 
Whistletree said it had sent them to her correct address. And she complained that the 
interest rate she had been paying was too high, as she thought it should be around 2% in 
line with base rate  Whistletree said she was on the SVR, at that time 4.79% once the 
0.25% discount was included, and that was in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Later in 2019, in the second complaint, Ms P asked Whistletree to consider extending the 
term of the mortgage to reduce her monthly payments. Whistletree looked at a five year term 
extension, but said it wasnt affordable. It said it would be prepared to consider a six month 
interest only arrangement to give Ms P time to sell the property, but needed to see proof of 
her income and expenditure first. It said it couldnt consider a new interest rate at this time, 
because the mortgage was £650 in arrears. 
Ms P complained again in 2020 that Whistletree wouldnt agree to convert her mortgage to 
interest only terms to reduce the payments. And she complained about the interest rate it 
had charged. She said she understood she was on a tracker rate, but her mortgage interest 
rate had increased when wider rates fell. And she didnt think that Whistletree had treated 
her fairly while she was in arrears, and had used bullying tactics against her. Whistletree 
said it had to contact her to discuss the arrears, and didnt agree it had acted inappropriately. 
Our investigator reviewed Ms Ps complaints and didnt think Whistletree had treated her 
unfairly, so Ms P asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision in this case, in which I said we could only look at 
matters in the six years leading up to when Ms P complained. In this decision, Ill set out my 
thoughts on the merits of that complaint.
Ms P has said that she doesnt think Whistletree has charged her a fair rate of interest. She 
believes that her mortgage is on a tracker rate which ought to have tracked the Bank of 
England base rate, and therefore that the interest rate around the time of her complaints 
should have been around 2% not around 5%.
When Ms P took her mortgage out, Northern Rock issued a mortgage offer which set out the 
terms of the borrowing  including the interest rate. Ive set out what it said above; that for 
the first two years, Ms P was on a fixed rate, and that was to be followed by the SVR (later, 
with a discount).
The SVR was set first by Northern Rock, then by its successor and more recently  since 
2016  by Whistletree. The SVR  standard variable rate  is a variable rate, not a tracker 
rate. The mortgage offer and terms and conditions do not suggest that the SVR tracks the 
Bank of England base rate, or any other external rate. So while the difference between base 
rate and the SVR has changed over the life of the mortgage, that does not  of itself  mean 
that the rate charged is unfair or has been wrongly charged.
So while Ms P believes her mortgage was  or should have been  on a tracker rate, Im 
afraid shes mistaken about that. Its never been on a tracker rate. And therefore Im satisfied 
it was fair that Whistletree and its predecessors charged her the SVR, less discount. I dont 
therefore uphold this part of her complaint.
In 2019, Ms P began to experience financial difficulties because of problems with her self 
employed income, among other things. She got in touch with Whistletree to discuss various 
options. She asked about taking a new fixed interest rate, but was told none was available 
because her mortgage was in a very small amount of arrears  around £16. Ms P had made 
a payment to clear that, but it hadnt yet been credited to her account. 
Ms P also asked about converting the mortgage to interest only, and explained she was 
considering selling her property if the mortgage remained unaffordable, though that was not 
something she wanted to do if it could be avoided.  Whistletree agreed to allow Ms P to miss 
that months payment while she sought financial advice. 
A few days later, Ms P complained and Whistletree agreed that she shouldnt have been told 
she couldnt take a new interest rate when she first called, as her account was in fact up to 
date. However, it said that she wasnt now eligible for a new rate because shed entered into 
an arrangement to miss that months payment.
Whistletree said Ms P could take a new rate if the arrangement was cancelled and she made 
the payment after all. Ms P wasnt eligible for a new rate while she was in arrears  even if she missed a payment by arrangement (which is still arrears, albeit by arrangement). And 
thats in line with its policy on making rates available to existing customers. It told her that, 
depending on which rate she took, her monthly payments would reduce from around £1,100 
to just over £1,000. Ms P was disappointed that her payments would reduce by such a small 
amount. She didnt proceed with the application for a new rate. 
Ive thought about whether this was fair. I appreciate Ms P was disappointed that taking a 
new rate would make a relatively small difference to her monthly payments. Although the 
new rates Whistletree was prepared to offer significantly reduced the interest rate, they didnt 
make much difference to the monthly payments. But thats not an error  its because Ms P 
was on a repayment mortgage and more than halfway through the term. So the main part of 
her monthly payments was repaying the capital. That means that reducing the interest rate 
on the interest part of the monthly payment has a relatively small overall impact. So I dont 
think Ms P was given wrong information about the impact on her monthly payments.
As to whether it was fair that Whistletree wouldnt implement the rate if Ms P missed a 
payment or there was an arrangement on her account, that was in line with its policy. Its 
reasonable for lenders to have eligibility criteria for new rates  which means not all 
customers will be eligible. In this particular case, I dont think that resulted in unfair treatment 
for Ms P. 
Thats because its clear that at this time, taking a new rate wouldnt have resolved the 
underlying problem. Although her payments would have reduced, the difference wouldnt 
have been enough to make them affordable for her. Ms P told Whistletree that her house 
was on the market because she didnt think she could afford the mortgage any more. She 
didnt want to sell, and was looking for alternatives that meant she could stay in the property. 
But giving her a new rate wouldnt have made that difference  the mortgage would still have 
been unaffordable, and Ms P might still have had to sell the property. And if shed taken a 
new rate, shed have had to pay an early repayment charge when she did so. That would 
have left her in a worse position. And so I dont think refusing her a rate if she went into 
arrears was unfair in the particular circumstances as they were at the time. 
Ms P also asked Whistletree to consider extending the term of the mortgage, converting 
some or all of it to interest only, or both. But Whistletree didnt agree to convert the mortgage 
to interest only, and didnt think a term extension was affordable.
I think this was fair, too. Under the mortgage rules, firms cant convert a mortgage to interest 
only permanently unless the borrower has a repayment strategy for repaying the capital at 
the end of the term  which Ms P didnt. A permanent conversion to interest only wouldnt be 
in her best interests; even if it reduced the monthly payments now, it would cause a different 
problem for the future. 
Extending the term is a permanent change to the mortgage, which usually requires an 
affordability assessment. Again, a term extension would reduce Ms Ps monthly payments  
but if the reduced payments are still unaffordable for her, it doesnt solve the underlying 
problem and therefore isnt the best way of helping her.
Instead, Whistletree asked Ms P for information about her income and expenditure, to see 
what was affordable for her. It was difficult for Ms P to provide accurate income information 
because her self-employed income was variable and had been reducing. But this was a 
reasonable request, as its only by understanding her wider situation that Whistletree could 
find the best way of helping her. 
Whistletree noted that Ms P had a significant number of unsecured debts, and advised her to 
get advice about those and try to come to an arrangement with the creditors. Thats as Id expect, since a secured debt  like a mortgage  should always take priority over an 
unsecured debt because her home is at risk. 
There were then some discussions between Ms P and Whistletree about converting part of 
the mortgage to interest only as a temporary arrangement rather than a permanent switch. 
Whistletree wanted to know how much Ms P could afford to pay, and when she expected her 
situation to improve  so that it could be sure she would be able to pay the increased 
payments which would follow at the end of the arrangement. Again, Im satisfied this is fair 
since it allows Whistletree to assess whether this is the best way of helping Ms P.
Before agreement could be reached, Ms P resumed making her full mortgage payments and 
cleared the arrears. And then, in 2021, she took a new lower interest rate. 
Im pleased to see that her mortgage is back on track. I appreciate that she went through a 
difficult time in 2019 and 2020, and Im sure that was very upsetting for her. But I dont think 
Whistletree acted unfairly, and so I dont uphold this part of the complaint either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman