DRN-3482818
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Santander UK Plc wont refund money he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr W is being represented by a solicitor, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr W in 
my decision. 
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail here. The view of 4 March 2022 covered 
the timeline of the transactions and the details of both Mr W and Santanders testimony. But 
briefly, Mr W made a number of payments between January 2021 and April 2021, totalling 
over £7,000, to a cryptocurrency exchange. Payments were then made from the 
cryptocurrency exchange to the cryptocurrency wallets.  
Mr W has told us between the months of January and March 2021, he matched with two 
individuals on an online dating application. He began messaging these individuals on a 
popular instant messaging forum. On Mr W getting to know both individuals, they told him 
they had experience in cryptocurrency. At different times across the months of January to 
March, Mr W was introduced to different trading platforms and encouraged to invest. He 
opened an account with a cryptocurrency exchange and accounts with what he believed to 
be the different trading platforms. Unbeknown to Mr W at the time, the individuals he was 
speaking with were in fact fraudsters. 
Mr W became suspicious when he was asked to make advanced payments before he was 
able to make any withdrawals. Mr W contacted Santander to raise his concerns on 
22 April 2021.  
Santander looked into Mr Ws claim and it issued its final response letter on 
1 September 2021, not upholding the complaint. In summary, it said the claim was reviewed 
as part of the Authorised Push Payments Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). 
Santander said it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, however, Mr W didnt 
carry out sufficient checks before making the payments and so it was unable to refund the 
claim.
Unhappy with Santanders response, through his representatives, Mr W brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Within its submission to our service, Santander commented that Mr W confirmed the account 
the funds were sent to, was an account in his own name and that he had sole control over 
the account. It added that the loss occurred from the account Mr W held in his own name 
with the cryptocurrency exchange and not as a result of the payments made from his 
account with Santander. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In short, she confirmed Mr W had opened an account with the cryptocurrency exchange and 
that he transferred the funds from his own account with it, before transferring onto the 
cryptocurrency wallet addresses provided to him by the fraudsters. And so, the payments 
Mr W made as part of the scam werent covered by the CRM Code. Our investigator didnt 
think Santander could reasonably be expected to prevent the scam. She didnt find the 
activity on Mr Ws account to be so unusual and suspicious. So, she didnt think it had 
missed an opportunity to identify the payments were made as the result of a scam. She 
noted Santander had contacted the beneficiary bank to ask if any funds remained but that no 
response had been received.  
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
For me to say Santander is liable in this case, I would need to find that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way. I accept that the payments Mr W made out of his Santander account were 
authorised transactions, even though he was the victim of a scam. 
Mr W authorised the payments and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. A voluntary code exists to provide additional 
protection against authorised push payment scams such as this (the CRM Code). But the 
CRM Code only applies to payments made directly to another person  payments made to a 
customers own accounts arent covered by the CRM Code. In this case, the payments Mr W 
made were to an account he set up in his own name with the cryptocurrency exchange, 
which he says he had control of. So, the payments Mr W made here didnt go to another 
person. This means the CRM Code provisions are not relevant to Mr Ws complaint.
So, Ive gone on to think about whether Santander could have done anything else to prevent 
the scam, bearing in mind good industry practice at the time and considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. But I 
am also mindful that when Mr W made the payments, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And 
there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Having thought very carefully about Santanders actions, I cant safely say it acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. And Im not persuaded Santander should reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss. I say this because, overall, I 
dont think the payments Mr W made were remarkable enough to have caused Santander 
concern. 
In thinking about whether the payments Mr W made were out of character and unusual I 
have reviewed the typical pattern of Mr Ws account usage. To do this I have looked at the 
account statements provided prior to the scam. This is often a finely balanced matter, and 
Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
Mr W set up a new payee and made his initial payments to the account in his name with the 
cryptocurrency exchange. This was a payment of £50 on 18 January 2021. I dont think this 
payment ought to have flagged with Santander as potentially suspicious or an indication that 
he mayve been at risk of financial harm. This is because, I dont think setting up a new 
payee in and of itself is an indication of fraud. And given Mr W was making a payment for 
£50, Im satisfied the amount wouldnt have caused concern to Santander.  
Ive then gone on to think about the further payments Mr W made. The second payment 
Mr W made was for £450 on 19 January 2021 to the same payee as the first payment. 
Again, I dont think this payment ought to have stood out to Santander, given I can see Mr W 
had previously made a payment of £500 from his account in October 2020. So, I dont find 
this payment to be out of character in light of Mr Ws previous account activity.  
I do recognise the next payment Mr W made on 27 January 2021 was for £2,200, which was 
larger in value to previous payments hed made on his account. Mr Ws representative has 
highlighted this payment as highly unusual in terms of the value. Im afraid, I dont agree that 
this payment ought to have stood out to Santander or that it ought to have put the bank on 
notice that Mr W might be at risk of financial harm. I say this because, I dont find the amount 
of the payment so remarkable that it ought to have flagged with Santander as potentially 
suspicious. Further, by the time Mr W made this payment on 27 January 2021, this was now 
a payment to an existing payee. 
I am mindful Mr W made three further payments of £500 to his account with the 
cryptocurrency exchange between 9 March 2021 and 31 March 2021. With three more 
payments of £1,000 between 3 April 2021 and 13 April 2021. Having thought carefully about 
these, with all things considered, I cant safely conclude the payments Mr W made ought to 
have flagged with Santander. 
I do acknowledge the payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange. And I recognise 
there is a balance the banks need to strike, in terms of its customers who genuinely invest in 
cryptocurrency and in it identifying those that are unusual and out of character. With this in 
mind, I dont think the sole fact that a transaction is made to a cryptocurrency provider in and 
of itself means the transaction is expected to flag with the bank  as there are customers 
who do make legitimate payments to cryptocurrency exchanges. 
When looking at all the payments Mr W made, I can see a healthy balance was left in the 
account after the payments were made. The payments werent made in quick succession but 
made over the course of several months. They werent payments made to a third partys 
account but to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange account in his name, that he had control 
of. I also dont think the payments Mr W made here were so unusual or suspicious that 
Santander ought to have intervened and asked questions about the payments before they 
were processed.   In looking at all the circumstances of this complaint, I note the bank called Mr W as it wanted 
to check it was him who was making some card payments on his account. While these card 
payments arent in dispute and dont form part of this complaint, I consider these actions to 
be proportionate in the circumstances. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive set out above, I do not think there was anything particularly 
unusual that ought to have prompted Santander to have intervened in this particular case.
Did Santander do enough to try and recover Mr Ws money once it was aware of the fraud?
Ive thought about what Santander did when Mr W reported the scam. Our investigator 
explained that Santander had contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank the funds were sent 
to) to see if any funds remained. Unfortunately, no response was received. Given Mr W had 
moved the funds into a cryptocurrency account and then on from there, I dont think 
Santander has missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr W sadly lost. 
It is very unfortunate Mr W has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been very upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Santander should have done more 
to prevent Mr W from losing this money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman