DRN-3386104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Oplo HL Ltd (then trading as 1st Stop Home Loans Limited) was 
irresponsible to lend to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan of £10,000 with Oplo in early 2015. They told Oplo they 
intended to use the loan to repay mortgage arrears and unsecured debts and for repairs and 
updates to their home. The loan was secured by a third-ranking charge on their house.
Mr and Mrs M say Oplo didnt value their property before offering the loan. They say it didnt 
verify their expenditure before lending. Mr M says Oplo should have been alerted to a 
problem by their poor credit score, credit commitments, arrears and gambling payments in 
his bank statement. Mr and Mrs M say the loan wasnt affordable and fell into arrears almost 
immediately.
I sent provisional decisions to the parties saying Oplo should have been alerted to the risk 
that further borrowing wasnt affordable and sustainable and could be harmful to Mr and 
Mrs M. Theyd had financial problems over many years and continued to struggle with their 
debts. Mr and Mrs M had mortgage arrears, defaults and made use of short-term debt. While 
Oplo said its affordability calculation showed Mr and Mrs M had disposable income, I didnt 
think it had done enough to establish that the loan was actually affordable and sustainable. 
The bank statements provided to Oplo showed evidence of gambling. Mr Ms bank 
statements were incomplete, so didnt provide a full picture of Mr and Mrs Ms outgoings and 
credit commitments. 
I said Oplo should refund all interest and charges applied to the loan, with 8% interest, and 
adjust Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
Oplo didnt agree. It sent detailed comments, which Ive taken into account when reaching 
my decision. Oplo said it doesnt agree that it lent irresponsibly to Mr and Mrs M. It said as a 
gesture of goodwill and in recognition of the discrepancies with Mr Ms bank statement which 
it should have noticed, it offered to write off the remaining balance of about £4,600. Mr and 
Mrs M didnt accept the offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M were in a difficult financial position when they applied for a loan with Oplo. 
They told Oplo they intended to use the loan funds to clear their mortgage arrears, repay 
payday loans, bring a credit card balance within its limit, repair their boiler and update their 
bathroom.
Mr and Mrs M told Oplo theyd fallen into financial hardship while helping a family member 
whose child died. This must have been an extremely difficult and upsetting time, and Im 
very sorry for what Mr and Mrs M and their family had to deal with.
One the concerns Mr and Mrs M raised was that Oplo didnt value the property. They said 
that with the mortgage and their second charge loan there was no equity left to secure the 
Oplo loan. Oplo did value the property. It was for Oplo to assess whether the property (with 
the existing charges) was good security for its loan.
Mr and Mrs M also said that the loan wasnt affordable. They said Oplo should have known 
this from their poor credit score, credit commitments, arrears and the gambling payments in 
Mr Ms bank statement. I agree  and Ive explained why below.
What did Oplo need to do before lending?
Regulations in place at that time said that before offering the loan to Mr and Mrs M, Oplo had 
to assess the potential for loan repayments to adversely impact their financial situation, 
taking into account the information it was aware of. It had to consider sufficient information to 
make a reasonable assessment of this. The scope of its checks had to be proportionate, 
depending on a number of factors including the amount, type and cost of the loan, the 
customers financial position, their existing credit commitments and their credit history, 
including any indications they are or have experienced financial difficulties.
The regulations said the types and sources of information could include evidence of income 
and expenditure, credit scores and reports, and information provided by the customer. The 
regulations said a high level of scrutiny is expected where a loan will be secured by a 
second or subsequent charge on a customers home.
The affordability assessment
Oplo carried out affordability checks, which included verifying Mr and Mrs Ms income and 
(to an extent) their expenditure and carrying out a credit check. The results of its affordability 
checks appeared to show that the loan repayments were affordable, in that Mr and Mrs M 
could meet the repayments, their existing credit commitments and their living expenses from 
their income.
I dont think Oplo did enough to verify Mr and Mrs Ms expenditure, in particular their credit 
commitments.
Oplo says it asks customers for bank statements for 30 days prior to lending. It provided the 
copies of Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements for January 2015 which it says it used in its 
lending decision. Mr Ms statement isnt complete. The statement says there are 151 
transactions for the period 02.01.2015 to 19.01.2015. The statement provided by Oplo 
shows about 30 transactions for this period. Mr M provided his bank statement (for the same 
account) and this shows many more transactions in January 2015 than the copies provided 
by Oplo.
I think Oplo should have noticed at the time that there were a significant number of 
transactions missing from Mr Ms bank statement. Had it asked for the complete bank 
statement, Oplo would have seen debt repayments that it hadnt included in its affordability 
assessment, as well as payments to gambling businesses.Oplo carried out credit checks and provided copies of the credit reports it received. These 
state the numbers of active, delinquent and defaulted accounts as set out below:
Mrs Ms credit report says:
17 active loans, two opened in the previous six months.
12 delinquent accounts in the last 12 months.
four defaults, one recorded within the last 12 months and three more within the last 36 
months.
two county court judgements (CCJ), one in mid-2014, and one in late 2012.
Mr Ms credit report says:
11 active loans.
eight delinquent accounts in the last 12 months.
two defaults recorded within the last 36 months.
Oplo says it distinguished between defaulted accounts and active accounts, meaning the 
number of accounts it deemed relevant was lower than Ive set out above. Oplo says it 
excludes accounts with defaults more than two years ago, and includes 1% of the balance of 
more recently defaulted accounts and CCJs. I appreciate this is was its policy approach to 
affordability at that time. However, I think in some cases it might be reasonable to assume 
the lender or debt collection agency would have tried to collect the debt  for instance one of 
Mrs Ms accounts had defaulted in August 2014 and been transferred to a debt collection 
agency. Im not persuaded it was responsible to assume that only 1% of recently defaulted 
accounts would be collected. In fact, Oplo didnt even include this in the affordability 
assessment here.
Oplo says it didnt rely on the credit report to verify Mr and Mrs Ms credit commitments. It 
says it also looked at bank statements and commitments declared by Mr and Mrs M. As Ive 
said though Mr Ms bank statements werent complete. 
Oplo was aware that Mr and Mrs M had a second charge loan that didnt appear in their 
credit reports. Had it asked for complete bank statements it would have been aware of 
further debts. Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements for January 2015 show payments for a loan, 
catalogue debt and direct debit payments to a bank (which could be for a loan or credit 
card), which werent included in Oplos affordability assessment. The statements also show 
payments to individuals, which could have been repayments for loans. And cash (about 
£600) was withdrawn, which Oplo says could have been to repay loans from a doorstep 
lender. I think Oplo should have asked for further information about these payments.
In response to my provisional decision, Oplo said its affordability calculation did reflect Mr 
and Mrs Ms expenditure as evidenced by their bank statements. I assume it means the 
incomplete bank statements. As Ive said, the complete bank statements (which I think Oplo 
should have asked for) show expenditure which wasnt included in the affordability 
calculation.
I dont think it was reasonable for Oplo to rely on the credit report (which it knew didnt fully 
reflect Mr and Mrs Ms true position) or bank statements which it should have known were 
incomplete. Oplo says Mr M provided incomplete bank statements in an attempt to hide the 
extent of his gambling. Nonetheless, I think Oplo should have asked for complete bank 
statements.
Mr and Mrs Ms pattern of borrowingI dont think Oplo did enough to ensure its affordability calculation was right. But I also think 
that Mr and Mrs Ms pattern of taking out debt that they struggled to repay should have 
alerted Oplo to a problem. Its clear from the credit report that Mr and Mrs M had delinquent 
accounts, defaults and a CCJ.
Oplo says the number of delinquent accounts had reduced. While that could be a sign that 
Mr and Mrs Ms overall financial position was improving, I think Oplo needed to look at the 
overall picture. For instance, Mrs M opened a credit card account in April 2014 and 
immediately borrowed close to the £1,000 limit. This account was over its credit limit and had 
missed payments by the time Mr and Mrs M took out the Oplo loan. Mrs M took out a home 
credit loan of about £1,700 in October 2014. I said in my provisional decision that Oplo 
should have considered whether Mrs M was taking out new debt in order to settle existing 
debts, or to fill the gap in her finances left by settling debts. Oplo said the home credit loans 
were rollovers with additional borrowing  I think this suggests that Mr and Mrs M were 
indeed unable to repay the original debt when it was due.
While Oplo noted that Mr M didnt exceed his overdraft limit, Mrs M says the bank prevented 
this due to Mr Ms poor money management. Oplo was of course aware of Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage arrears. Mrs Ms bank statements show direct debits and standing orders returned 
unpaid.
While Oplo says Mr and Mrs M only had two payday loans and five home credit loans 
outstanding, both of the payday loans and one of the home credit loans were delinquent.
The information Oplo had showed Mr and Mrs M had significant financial problems over 
some years and continued to do so. Mrs Ms credit report shows defaults recorded in 2010, 
2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. I think Oplo should have questioned why Mr and Mrs M 
continued to be in financial difficulties when, according to its calculations, they appeared to 
have disposable income.
I dont think its reasonable for Oplo to say the evidence suggested Mr and Mrs Ms position 
had improved. I dont agree that having only one default and a CCJ recorded within the last 
12 months is a sign of improving finances  I think it suggests Mr and Mrs M were continuing 
to struggle with their debts.
Evidence of gambling
The bank statements Oplo provided showed nine payments to gambling businesses from 
Mr Ms account, totalling £215. Of course, this bank statement was incomplete. Nonetheless 
Oplo was aware of the gambling transactions, and noted this on the bank statement. Theres 
no evidence it asked Mr and Mrs M about this. In fact, while most of the requirements on its 
affordability checklist are ticked off, the entry for Gambling entries discussed and 
documented wasnt ticked. Similarly, in its credit worthiness checklist, Oplo hasnt ticked 
Reasons for defaults/CCJs discussed and documented or Reason for pay day loans 
investigated and documented.
Oplo says its policy is to ask for bank statements for 30 days prior to lending. As Ive said 
already, it should have known the bank statements it had werent complete. Mr Ms complete 
bank statement shows many more gambling transactions, with transfers to gambling 
business of about £1,500 during January 2015. Mr M withdrew cash of about £600. This 
could have been for gambling. Oplo says this might have been to repay a doorstep lender  
it ought to have asked about this at the time. Mr Ms bank statements show payments to 
gambling businesses of more than £1,000 in the last week of December 2014. While there 
were also payments into the account from gambling businesses of significant sums, 
winnings (if thats what they were) are unpredictable. Spending patterns are more predictable. I think the number of transactions and the amounts involved here suggest a 
pattern of spending which is likely to repeat and make the loan repayments unsustainable.
Oplo said its calculations showed Mr and Mrs M had disposable monthly income of £1,600, 
which would make gambling losses of £1,500 affordable. As Ive said, Oplos calculation 
didnt include all of Mr and Mrs Ms outgoings as it was based on incomplete information. 
Oplo says Mr and Mrs Ms income could sustain this level of gambling transactions, and it 
didnt think this was having a detrimental effect on their finances. I dont think thats 
reasonable. Mr and Mrs M had been struggling with their debts for some years. There was a 
pattern here of spending on gambling and of borrowing, which is likely to repeat. I think it 
was foreseeable that Mr and Mrs M would have further problems meeting loan repayments.
How did the loan affect Mr and Mrs M?
A secured loan could, in some circumstances, put borrowers in a better position. For 
instance, if it reduced their overall outgoings by repaying expensive short-term finance. That 
seems unlikely here as only £3,200 of this loan was used to repay existing debt.
Based on the credit reports provided by Oplo, in addition to their mortgage and second 
charge loan, Mr and Mrs M had unsecured debts of about £24,800 (this included current 
defaults of about £11,200). And Mr and Mrs Ms bank statements show further debts. As 
only about £1,200 of the Oplo loan was used to repay unsecured debts, most of this 
remained outstanding.
About £2,000 of the loan funds was used to clear Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage arrears. While a 
priority debt, it seems likely the interest applied to the mortgage arrears was lower than the 
34.8% interest rate for the Oplo loan  and the overall cost of this loan was significantly 
increased by the fees of £1,500 which were added to the loan. Oplo says the loan meant Mr 
and Mrs Ms mortgage payments were up to date which (it says) reduced their monthly 
outgoings. It says they were aware of the fees and interest rate before deciding to take out 
the loan. 
By offering this loan Oplo increased Mr and Mrs Ms overall indebtedness by £8,300 
(including fees of £1,500 which were added to the loan). This was in circumstances where 
they were already struggling to manage their debts. By the end of 2015, Mr and Mrs M were 
in a three months repayment arrangement to repay arrears after a missed payment. They 
agreed a further repayment arrangement in mid-2016, again to clear arrears. I think these 
repayment problems were foreseeable.
Should Oplo have offered this loan?
I think the combination of factors here meant it wasnt reasonable or fair for Oplo to offer this 
loan to Mr and Mrs M. Oplo says it takes what its told by customers in good faith, and 
accepted the explanation Mr and Mrs M gave for their financial circumstances. But Id remind 
Oplo that regulations required a high level of scrutiny where a loan will be secured by a 
second or subsequent charge on a customers home, as was the case here.
I dont think Oplo collected sufficient information to make a reasonable assessment of Mr 
and Mrs Ms circumstances. The bank statements it used in the affordability assessment 
were incomplete and it was aware that the credit report didnt reflect all of Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit commitments. I dont think Oplos checks were proportionate. It was aware of Mr and 
Mrs Ms levels of debt, use of credit, arrears, missed payments and defaults, and evidence 
of gambling but didnt probe into these issues. I think Oplo should have questioned why Mr and Mrs M had struggled with their debt 
repayments for some years, and continued to do so, despite appearing to have relatively 
high amounts of disposable income. I think together all this shows previous and current 
financial difficulties unlikely to be caused only by the explanation given by Mr and Mrs M.
I think Oplo ought to have known that further borrowing wasnt affordable and sustainable, 
and, especially given the pattern of spending on gambling, could be harmful to Mr and Mrs 
M.
Putting things right
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Oplo to write off the loan entirely  Mr and 
Mrs M borrowed this money and I think its fair that they repay it. But I dont think its fair for 
Oplo to apply interest and charges to a loan it shouldnt have offered. 
To put matters right Oplo should:
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan.
treat all payments made by Mr and Mrs M as payments towards the capital amount of 
the loan.
if this results in an overpayment, pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments 
from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
if theres still a balance outstanding, Oplo should agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Mr and Mrs M.
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr and Mrs Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to take off tax from this interest. Oplo must give Mr 
and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Oplo HL Ltd to take the steps and pay 
the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman