DRN-3615165
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, in June 2020 Miss G was approached on social media by a well-known 
influencer Ill call W with an investment opportunity. W had previously set up or been 
involved in the setting up of other e-commerce businesses and he and his partner, who Ill 
refer to as M, had big social media followings and had worked with credible brands. Once 
Miss G agreed to invest, she was added to a chat group with numerous other investors. 
They were told not to share any details of the investment with others. 
Miss G paid £1,000 in two payments (£800 in July 2020 and £200 in March 2021) to invest in 
four start-up companies that W was setting up. For an investment of £250 in each company 
Miss G was offered a 0.4% shareholding per company and 2% dividends indefinitely. When 
the companies were set up M was listed as the director of them.  
W later advised investors that hed spent the £100,000 theyd jointly invested and then 
stopped communicating with them. Miss G says other investors have been reimbursed by 
their banks. She reported the scam to Monzo on 16 May 2021. 
Monzo didnt agree to provide Miss G with a refund and said that Miss G was involved in a 
civil dispute and so the CRM Code doesnt apply. It contacted the bank that received Miss 
Gs funds but was advised that no funds remained. 
Miss G says the scam has severely affected her mental health. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full. He 
noted that police, receiving bank and other evidence all led him to believe Miss G was 
scammed. The investigator also thought Miss G met the standard required of her under the 
CRM Code to receive full reimbursement. In summary, this was because:
- W had a history of successful entrepreneurial activity
- Miss G had followed W for many years
- Miss G received detailed communications about plans, designs and marketing
- There was an application process that involved Miss G providing a copy of her 
passport and other information
- Monzo hasnt demonstrated it provided a warning that could have affected Miss Gs 
reasonable basis for belief
- It was Miss Gs first investment and her actions were reasonable in light of this.
Miss G accepted what the investigator said but Monzo did not. In summary, Monzo said:
- This is a civil dispute. The fact that Miss G didnt receive any profits doesnt mean its 
a scam. 
- Miss G invested in start-up companies and all but one folded. Monzo provided a 
quote from Miss G that said only one of the four companies launched and shes not 
received any profits. 
- Miss Gs decision to invest was based on promises and a curated social media 
lifestyle and she didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the investment was 
genuine. She didnt complete any checks and invested through a private individual 
who wasnt registered to provide advice on where and how to invest. Miss G took no 
steps to ensure W was in a position to provide such advice.  
- Monzo provided a link to what the FCA register says about a crowdfunding company 
and said that if Miss G had used a crowdfunding platform the platform would have 
been responsible for checking regulation. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should reimburse some or all of the money Miss G lost in line with the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM Code) it has 
agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss G from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud
 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The exception set out in the 
CRM Code that is relevant to this case is:
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Civil dispute or scam?
Monzo didnt consider Miss Gs case under the CRM Code because it said she had a civil 
dispute with W and the CRM Code doesnt apply to civil disputes. It said Miss G entered a 
business deal that went wrong and should pursue the matter through the courts. After 
carefully considering all the evidence Im persuaded that Miss G was the victim of a scam. I 
have set out below why.
- The police have provided evidence that concludes that Miss G and others involved in 
the same investment are the victims of a scam. This information has been shared 
with Monzo. - The bank that received Miss Gs funds has provided evidence of many other scam 
reports that are very similar in nature to Miss Gs. This information is confidential, and 
I cant go into any detail here, but relevant evidence has been shared with Monzo in 
other cases.  
- Once Miss G and others joined the group chat, they were told not to share any 
details of the investment with family and friends. If the investment was genuine there 
would be no reason to keep it a secret. 
- Although W promised Miss G (and other investors) a contract this didnt materialise. 
If the investment was genuine then contracts would be supplied. 
- W wasnt a director of any of the companies Miss G invested in although he led Miss 
G to believe he would be. 
- W disclosed to various investors that all of the £100,000 invested had been spent 
and later blocked Miss G and other investors from social media and stopped 
responding to messages. These arent the actions of someone who is offering a 
genuine investment.  
- Although all four companies were incorporated in July 2020 shares werent allocated 
until a year later and none of the companies have traded. This information can be 
seen on the Companies House website. It seems to me to be more likely than not 
that shares were allocated after multiple complaints were raised to Monzo and other 
banks in around May 2021. I dont agree with Monzos comment that all but one of 
the start-up companies folded and Miss G simply made a poor investment decision. 
Accounts have never been filed for any of the companies. 
Having decided that the CRM Code applies Ive gone on to consider whether Miss G had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a genuine investment. 
Did Miss G have a reasonable basis for believing the payments she made were legitimate?
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss G had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. Having done so, I am not 
persuaded that Miss G failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt shown that Miss G lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Miss G had followed W and M on social media for around four years. Each of them 
had a large number of followers which made Miss G feel they were both credible.  
W had launched businesses that appeared to be successful in the past and M was 
affiliated to large brands. These factors reasonably led Miss G to believe they could 
successfully launch further genuine businesses and build on their success. 
This was a different type of investment that was more akin to crowdfunding and so 
attracting investors through a social media platform didnt seem out of the ordinary. 
Miss G was investing in start-up businesses so the usual checks that might be 
completed when investing funds werent relevant to this investment. The businesses 
werent incorporated at the time Miss G made the first, and larger, payment and so a 
Companies House check wouldnt apply. 
Miss G wasnt being offered an unrealistic rate of return that might reasonably have 
led to concern. Each investor was offered a 0.4% shareholding in four companies 
and ongoing dividends.Miss G went through an application process and was provided with business plans 
that persuaded her the investment was genuine. 
When Miss G made the first payment, she was provided with a message that said 
she was sending funds to someone Monzo couldnt verify. I dont consider this 
confirmation of payee unable to match result affected Miss Gs reasonable basis for 
belief. 
Miss G hadnt invested before, so I consider her actions were reasonable based on 
her level of experience. The amount she invested also wasnt huge compared with 
average investment amounts.
Although Miss G wasnt provided with a contract, Ive seen messages from W on the 
group chat that confirmed a contract was being prepared. And business plans were 
discussed. 
In its response to the investigators view Monzo said that Miss G did nothing to check that W 
was registered to provide investment advice and that if shed have used a crowdfunding 
platform then the platform would have been responsible for checking regulation. But W didnt 
offer Miss G and others investment advice which would necessitate FCA registration  he 
offered a stake in four companies that hadnt been incorporated. And the crowdfunding 
company Monzo provided a link to as an example is only authorised by the FCA for very 
limited activities that arent relevant in this case. But in any event, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect Miss G to understand financial regulation to this extent.  
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss G? 
Im also mindful that when Miss G made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss G made were unusual or suspicious. 
The payments Miss G asked Monzo to make (for £800 and £200) were in line with what 
Monzo might reasonably have considered the normal operation of her account. I dont 
consider these were payments that should have particularly stood out to Monzo as being 
unusual or indicative of possible fraud. They were low in value and made over three weeks 
apart. In such circumstances, I find Monzo was obliged to make the payments in accordance 
with Miss Gs instructions and I do not find it at fault for having done so. This finding is 
relevant to when interest is payable from, which should be the date Monzo declined Miss Gs 
claim rather than the date of each payment. 
Im sorry to hear about the effect of this scam on Miss Gs mental health. I realise how 
distressing scams can be. But I have also taken into account the fact that much of the 
distress and inconvenience Miss G has experienced was as a result of the actions of a cruel 
scammer. In the circumstances, I dont consider it fair to ask Monzo to do anything more. 
Putting things right
Overall, I consider that under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the 
money Miss G lost as none of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. Its not clear how Miss G would have used the money if Monzo 
had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo should also pay interest on the money 
it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from the date Monzo declined Miss Gs claim 
to the date of payment.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and award Miss G £1,000 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date Monzo Bank Ltd declined Miss Gs claim to the date of settlement (less any tax that is 
lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman