DRN-3168509
The complaint
Mr H complains that PRAC Financial Limited (PRAC) didnt respond sympathetically to his 
attempts to settle an outstanding debt.
What happened
In 2019 PRAC bought an outstanding debt in Mr Hs name. PRAC instructed a company 
which I will refer to as B to recover the outstanding balance from Mr H.
Mr H started to repay the debt by instalments. There were times when he stopped paying so 
B asked for his repayment proposals. Mr H made a settlement offer of around £150, which 
was rejected. Instead, B told Mr H that PRAC would accept just under £394. Mr H paid this 
sum to B in April 2021.
In April 2021, Mr H complained to PRAC that hed wanted to negotiate a settlement with B 
given the situation with his poor mental health.
PRAC didnt think that it or B had done anything wrong. The investigator didnt recommend 
that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She said she couldnt consider what discounts PRAC had 
offered other customers. The investigator didnt think that PRAC had harassed Mr H as it 
had a legitimate interest in contacting him to try and recover the debt.
The investigator didnt think that PRAC was aware of Mr Hs mental health problems until he 
told them in April 2021. 
Mr H isnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He says PRAC and B are run by 
the same person who has been under investigation by the Law Society and the press. Mr H 
says he knows of other people who were offered bigger discounts than he was by PRAC. 
Mr H says that PRAC didnt try to find out whether he could afford to settle the debt. Mr H 
says that the tone of Bs letters led him to believe that he would be taken to court if he didnt 
settle the debt. This meant he felt he had no option but to borrow from family members.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am only considering the actions of PRAC and not B. I should also say that this service 
doesnt supervise, regulate, or discipline the businesses we cover  thats the role of the 
regulator. This means that I although I can see that Mr H feels strongly about the way in 
which PRAC and B are run, I havent commented further on this. My decision is limited to 
whether PRAC treated Mr H unfairly when asking him to repay the outstanding balance.
Im satisfied that PRAC sent Mr H a notice of assignment once it took the debt over. I 
consider this was enough to show Mr H that it owned the debt and that it was reasonable for 
PRAC to appoint B to collect the debt its behalf.
Although Mr H says he knows of other people who were offered a larger discount on their 
debts than he was, I dont think that its for this service to say what kind of discount should 
be offered  thats a matter of commercial judgment for PRAC. 
Most of Mr Hs concerns about the way the collection of the account was handled, appear to 
relate to B rather than PRAC. As Ive said above, I can only consider Mr Hs complaint as it 
relates to PRAC. And I just I dont have enough evidence to conclude that PRACs contact 
was excessive or harassing in nature. 
I cant see that PRAC was made aware of Mr Hs mental health problems until around April 
2021 when settlement of the debt was agreed. I can also see that once Mr H complained, 
PRAC engaged with B to find out more about what had happened. This seems a reasonable 
step to take on the part of PRAC.
I appreciate that Mr H thinks PRAC shouldve done more to assess whether the settlement 
was affordable to him. But from what I understand, when Mr H spoke with B about the 
settlement, he said hed had money gifted to him and that his family was supporting him 
financially. I wouldnt have expected PRAC to go behind this and carry out further checks. 
Although Mr H says he felt from the tone of Bs letters and the attitude of its staff that he had 
no option other than to pay B, I cant say that this was the fault of PRAC. So, it doesnt 
change my decision not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman