DRN-3630292
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc didnt alert him to the fact that it wouldnt accept a loan 
from a friend in relation to a transfer of mortgaged property application. Mr G only found this 
out at the last minute under pressure of a court order and he had to apply to borrow more 
money at a higher rate of interest from TSB. Mr G says that he was denied the opportunity to 
get a more favourable interest rate from another lender and wants to be compensated for the 
difference.
What happened
Mr G approached TSB as he wanted to borrow £240,000 to buy out his ex-wifes interest in 
the former matrimonial home. TSB offered a mortgage of £219,995 with a five-year fixed rate 
product. Mr G approached a friend who agreed in February 2020 to lend him £20,000 for the 
balance. Completion was to be in September 2020 but by then Mr G had lost his job and 
needed a new mortgage offer to remortgage. Mr G got a new job in October 2020 and 
needed a new solicitor as the former one had gone out of business. Mr Gs ex-wife, because 
of the delay in re-mortgaging started proceedings to sell the house and at a court hearing on 
14 December 2020, the judge ruled that if the re-mortgage wasnt completed by 15 February 
2021 that the flat should be sold. Mr G agreed a completion date for the remortgage of 9 
February 2021.
On Friday 5th February 2021, just before the end of the working day, Mr Gs conveyancing
solicitor informed him of a one-line letter from TSB saying they were pulling the mortgage
because the loan from his friend was outside of TSB policy. Mr G called TSB and was 
advised that as it had gone to legal there was no way to proceed with the mortgage as 
agreed. On 8 February Mr Gs mortgage broker told him that it was outside TSBs policy to 
accept a loan from a friend as it was viewed as a gifted deposit and the only way to complete 
by the time of the court deadline was to borrow an additional sum of £20,000 and pay a 
higher rate of interest of 1.79%.
Mr G says that over the course of a year he wasnt made aware that there was a problem 
with the loan from his friend, Mr G says that had he been made aware of the difficulty in 
good time that he could have got a mortgage from an alternative lender. Mr G says that in 
February 2021 a rate of 1.26% was available at a fixed rate for five years. Mr G lost his job 
because he was forced to take time off to deal with this crisis and was let go as it happened 
during his probationary period.
TSB said that Mr G had indicated in his discussions with it that he would make-up the 
shortfall either through savings or from borrowing from a friend. It accepted that the TSB 
adviser should have made it clear that borrowing from a friend was unacceptable. It offered 
Mr G compensation of £250.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and that TSB provide 
further compensation of £200 because of the distress TSBs failure to alert him to the issue 
with the deposit had caused. But our investigator didnt consider that it was reasonable that 
TSB make up the difference between the mortgage he is paying with TSB and the lowest 
available at the time. Mr G disagrees and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was buying out his ex-wifes interest in a property and wanted to borrow that money 
from TSB. Mr G says that he was open from the start of the application process that in order 
to complete the transaction that he would need a friend to help him with a loan of about 
£20,000. TSBs case is that the mortgage adviser understood that this money was to be 
used as part of Mr Gs payment to his ex-wife and not as part of the deposit for buying the 
flat. TSB has rules about gifted deposits and this money didnt fit within these rules so when 
the underwriters reviewed the application, they wouldnt sanction the loan that Mr G wanted. 
As a result, Mr G was forced under pressure of a court order to obtain extra borrowing from 
TSB but at a higher rate.
TSB accepts that it wasnt clear about how it would deal with the loan from Mr Gs friend and 
agreed with our investigator that this would have caused stress to Mr G and further agreed 
with our investigators recommendation that it pay £450 in total to Mr G by way of 
recompense. Mr G feels this is insufficient for his distress but also he should be 
compensated for having to take out the higher level of borrowing that he was forced to take 
out rather than given the opportunity to look to an alternative lender. 
If I look firstly at Mr Gs claim for financial loss. Mr G seems to have agreed that he would 
purchase his wifes interest in their flat and his failure to do so led to a court order which 
required this to be done by a certain date otherwise the property would have to be sold. The 
issue with the gifted deposit wasnt brought to Mr Gs attention until the last minute which 
meant he felt that he had to do a deal with TSB and had no time to contact alternative 
lenders to apply for a mortgage at a better rate of interest than was available from the bank. 
The problem for Mr G was caused by the deadline date of 15 February 2021. Without that, if 
Mr G had proceeded to completion, the issue of the gifted deposit would have come to light 
and Mr G could have looked to alternative lenders for the better deal that he believes was 
available.  This application seems to have been around for some time and I note that a 
mortgage offer issued on 6 March 2020. If Mr G had been able to complete at an earlier 
stage the issue would have come to light and at that stage and could have been solved 
without pressure of the court order. It was Mr Gs inability to complete earlier and that meant 
that his ex-wife got a court order which put the pressure on him.
But whatever may have caused Mr G not to complete at an earlier stage wasnt the fault of 
TSB. It received Mr Gs application in February 2020 and issued a mortgage offer in March 
2020 so Mr G could have completed shortly thereafter. Mr G seems to have lost his job at 
some time thereafter which would have affected his ability to complete but thats not the fault 
of TSB. Clearly this led to friction with his ex-wife and led to a court order. But again, the 
management of the case with Mr Gs ex-wife and the setting by the court of a deadline was 
not in the hands of TSB. Mr G was clearly put under pressure by the deadline of 15 February 
2021. But that deadline wasnt the fault of TSB but related to a matrimonial dispute between 
Mr G and his ex-wife. So, I dont believe that I can fairly hold TSB responsible for the 
financial decisions that Mr G felt he had to make because of that impending deadline if that 
deadline wasnt the fault of TSB and there is no evidence of unreasonable delay by TSB 
during the mortgage application process. Even if I were to accept that, Ive not seen any 
definitive evidence that Mr G would have been able to get the more favourable mortgage rate that he suggests he might have been able to get given that many lenders have similar 
policies about gifted deposits.
So, whilst I dont accept that TSB was the cause of Mr Gs financial loss and I wont be 
upholding any claim for financial loss, I agree that there was a failure to identify the issue of 
the gifted deposit that would have caused Mr G a great deal of concern and disappointment 
that his original plan for a lower LTV and better interest rate couldnt be put into effect and 
the extra stress of arranging a new mortgage offer. 
I dont feel that I can hold TSB responsible for his employers response to Mr G taking time 
to deal with this issue or for the time taken by Mr G processing the complaint. TSB seems to 
have assisted Mr G fairly swiftly in obtaining an alternative mortgage offer and sometimes 
mortgages do take time to sort out and I cant hold TSB responsible for the actions of an 
individual employer and we expect that consumers will take time to process complaints but 
normally dont provide compensation for that.
Using our guidelines for compensation, Im of the view that TSBs failure to alert him to the 
problem of the gifted deposit caused Mr G considerable disappointment and stress and 
required urgent action by him to sort the problem out although TSB was able to make a 
further mortgage offer fairly swiftly to avoid Mr G falling foul of the deadline date. I believe 
that £450 represents fair compensation and as this is more than was initially offered by TSB, 
I will be upholding this complaint.      
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr G £450 in total as compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr G £450 in total. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman