DRN-3559108
The complaint
Ms R complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs actions when she fell victim to a fraudster 
and was left significantly out of pocket.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the detail surrounding the scam, so I will not repeat that in 
detail here. But in summary, it is accepted that Ms R was the innocent victim of a scam in 
December 2020. She was tricked and coerced into making payments from accounts she 
holds to fraudsters. The fraudsters were also able to make some payments from her cards 
without her knowledge or consent.
Some of the payments were made from Ms Rs UK accounts, and some from her account 
held in Jersey. For brevity, I will refer to Barclays Bank PLC Jersey Branch as Barclays 
Jersey, and to Barclays Bank UK PLC as Barclays UK.
Barclays UK has reimbursed Ms R for the losses she sustained from her Barclays UK 
accounts, specifically including the unauthorised card payments. Ms R remains out of pocket 
for the money she lost through payments made from her Barclays Jersey account. She 
argues that Barclays UK has responsibility for those remaining losses. Barclays UK says it is 
not liable for the payments made from Ms Rs Jersey account and says this is a matter for 
Barclays Jersey. 
However, Barclays UK accepts it did reimburse Ms Rs UK account for the losses she made 
from her Barclays Jersey account, but states this was done in error. It credited her account 
with the equivalent sum on 12 January 2021 and wrote to her the same day confirming this. 
But it then reversed the credit on 13 January saying later the credit had been made in error. 
The reversal of that credit took place before Ms R had spent any of those funds. 
Ms R argues that Barclays UK should not have reversed this credit. She doesnt accept that 
Barclays UK is entitled to make such a reversal and doesnt accept its explanation that the 
original credit was made in error. She says in making that reimbursement, this represented 
the outcome of Barclays UKs investigation into her fraud claim and must stand. 
I have separately set out my decision explaining why I do not have the power to consider all 
aspects of Ms Rs complaint, specifically those aspects I consider relate to the payments she 
made from her Barclays Jersey account. But I explained that I was satisfied I could consider:
1. Barclays UK telling Ms R it would investigate the disputed payments made from her 
Barclays Jersey account, going on to tell her that having carried out that investigation 
it would refund her, and crediting those lost funds to her Barclays UK account. 
2. Barclays UK then removing those funds and saying it had made the decision to 
reimburse in error.
3. Barclays UKs actions in relation to the other payments  in other words those made 
from Ms Rs UK based accounts. 
I issued my provisional decision on the merits of these aspects on 13 April 2022. In it, I 
explained why I didnt intend to uphold Ms Rs complaint. An extract of that decision is set 
out below and forms part of this final decision:
Firstly, considering point 3 above, all of the money that was lost from Ms Rs UK based 
payments (both authorised and unauthorised) was either blocked at the time or 
refunded in full and no loss now remains. As I consider Ms Rs losses have already 
been fairly redressed here, I do not propose to require that Barclays UK should take 
further action on this point.
On points 1 and 2 above, Barclays UK acknowledges the information Ms R was given 
about it investigating the Jersey payments was an error. It similarly acknowledges the 
refund she was given and the letter she was sent were in error too. It has apologised 
for these errors and offered her £500 to recognise the distress and inconvenience she 
was caused as a result. But it doesnt consider those errors make it liable to return the 
money to her account, and it considers the relevant account terms and conditions 
permit it to remove funds credited in error to a customers account.
Ms R doesnt accept Barclays UKs apologies or its offer of compensation. She 
believes Barclays UK is bound by the original reimbursement decision and was not 
entitled to later remove the money from her account.
Ive thought carefully about what happened here. I find Barclays UKs explanation that 
the reimbursement was an error is plausible. I dont think this was something Barclays 
UK was liable for - for the reasons set out above I consider these payments were the 
responsibility of Barclays Jersey and not of Barclays UK. 
I am also persuaded that Barclays UK was permitted to remove any funds credited to 
Ms Rs account in error, given the terms of her account, and noting that it did so 
promptly and before Ms R had spent any of those funds.
It follows that I am not currently minded to require Barclays UK to return those funds.
I have also considered the impact these errors have had on Ms R. She has explained 
how she was already in a very difficult situation for other reasons. So, this error had a 
larger impact on her than it would likely have had on another person not facing similar 
challenges. 
Barclays UK has offered Ms R the sum of £500 to reflect the impact on her of these 
errors. I know Ms R doesnt accept this as sufficient. But having considered all the 
circumstances and the specific errors here, including the relatively short duration 
before they were addressed, I consider Barclays UKs offer fair and reasonable. I am 
not minded to ask Barclays UK to do more.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays UK did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Ms R did not accept the provisional decision. Below, I have briefly summarised the key 
points Ms R raised on these merits, although I would stress that I have taken everything she 
has said fully into consideration:
- Other organisations are still looking into what happened, including Action Fraud, the 
Channel Islands Financial Ombudsman, and Barclays Head Office;
- A friend and former colleague of Ms R had been reimbursed after having falling victim to essentially the same scam;
- Barclays UKs explanation that it had reimbursed her in error was implausible, 
because this would have been done after an investigation by a fraud team, which had 
concluded she was the victim of a fraud and being refunded on that basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before setting out my findings, Id like to reiterate what I said in my provisional decision 
about how sorry I am to hear about what has happened to Ms R and the situation she now 
finds herself in. Ms R has comprehensively detailed the events surrounding the fraud she 
was entrapped by, and the impact this has had on her since. Her situation has been made 
worse by significant health worries and other circumstances. The loss of her savings as a 
consequence of this fraud has left her facing daunting financial problems. 
As I said in that provisional decision, I do not underestimate the impact fraud has on 
innocent victims such as Ms R. Our investigator has provided details of other sources of 
support available to Ms R and I would again urge her to consider these if she has not 
already done so. 
My role here is to determine whether Barclays Bank UK PLC should do more than it already 
has to put things right. 
I have reviewed everything afresh, taking into consideration Ms Rs further submissions in 
response to my provisional findings.
Firstly, I am satisfied that the ongoing investigations Ms R has referenced do not affect my 
ability to determine the merits of her complaint about Barclays UK, to the extent of the 
matters that fall within my jurisdiction. 
While Ive noted Ms Rs comments regarding the reimbursement by Barclays Jersey of her 
friend and former colleague, that does not change my findings on Ms Rs complaint against 
Barclays UK. I can only consider the evidence before me, in so far as it relates to Ms Rs 
own case and in so far as it falls within my jurisdiction to determine.
I understand Ms Rs frustration with Barclays UKs stated error in reimbursing her for losses 
from Barclays Jersey, then reversing the credit. I know she doesnt agree with my finding 
that Barclays UKs explanation on this point is plausible. But nothing Ms R raises leads me 
to a different finding on this point than I reached in my provisional decision on the matter and 
for the same reasons.
In summary, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings, as set out above, which 
I consider fair and reasonable based on the facts before me. I do not require Barclays UK to 
do more than it has already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, including those stated in the extract from my provisional 
decision, I consider Barclays Bank UK PLC has made Ms R a fair offer of compensation in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the matter. I do not 
require it to do more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman