DRN-3922773
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to recover funds theyd lost 
in a scam. 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs D had an account with Nationwide. 
In February 2018 they were sadly the victims of a scam, and lost £8,000. Mr C and Mrs D 
were informed, by the police, that £2,000 of these funds made their way to a Nationwide 
account in the name of another consumer, I'll call A. 
 
On 8 May 2018 a freezing order was served on As account with Nationwide. Unfortunately 
Nationwide didn't act on the freezing order quickly enough and allowed funds to be 
withdrawn, including what Mr C and Mrs D believe to be their funds. Mr C and Mrs D 
complained to Nationwide that theyd failed in their duty to fairly recover their funds. 
Nationwide didnt think theyd acted unfairly in failing to recover Mr C and Mrs Ds funds. 
Mr C and Mrs D werent happy with Nationwides response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that Nationwide didn't act 
fairly in failing to apply the freezing order when they should have done. Our investigator 
recommended that Nationwide refund Mr C and Mrs D £2,000 plus 8% interest 
and compensation of £250. 
 
Nationwide initially agreed to the view, and paid £2,000. However, they later changed their 
position and refused to pay the 8% or the £250. Nationwide explained that on further review 
they didnt believe the funds in the account belonged to Mr C and Mrs D, and therefore they 
didn't cause them any financial loss in failing to impose the freezing order on time.
 
As Nationwide didn't agree the case was passed to me to decide. 
I reviewed Mr C and Mrs Ds complaint and came to a different conclusion to our 
investigator. I advised both parties that having reviewed the account statements for As 
account I couldnt conclude £2,000 entered the account, and although I agreed Nationwide 
should have acted on the freezing order I cant conclude that their error led to Mr C and 
Mrs D losing out. 
  
Mr C advised he didnt accept my thoughts. He made a number of points, in summary:
Our service shouldnt second guess a Court Order that was issued
What message does this give the victims of crime when the law isnt followed?
Would the public be happy to hear financial institutions dont have to obey the law?
Theyve spent the funds so any debt recovery would take time
As Mr C and Mrs D didnt accept my thoughts Ive reconsidered my position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For me to conclude that Nationwide acted unfairly and Mr C and Mrs D lost out as a result of 
their actions I'll need to conclude Nationwide didn't act on the freezing order when receiving 
it. And, importantly as a result Mr C and Mrs D's money was withdrawn from A's account. 
 
Nationwide have accepted that they failed to act as expected when receiving the freezing 
order. However, I need to consider whether Mr C and Mrs D's funds were in the account at 
the time. I've reviewed the statements of A's account, and I agree there's no evidence of 
Mr C and Mrs D's funds being present. Between the dates Mr C and Mrs D were scammed 
£2,000 didn't enter A's account. It follows I can't conclude that Nationwide's actions led to 
Mr C and Mrs D not recovering £2,000, as I'm satisfied their funds didn't enter A's account. 
Ive considered Mr Cs arguments, firstly about the criminal investigation which took place 
and the freezing order which was issued. As I explained before I agree an order was issued, 
and its something which Nationwide should have acted upon, which they accept. So, Im not 
saying Nationwide acted fairly in failing to apply the freezing order  they didnt. However, for 
the reasons Ive already explained I cant say Mr C and Mrs D lost out financially if Im 
unable to conclude their funds were in As account  which is the case. 
I appreciate that Mr C and Mrs D may have spent the £2,000 Nationwide initially agreed to 
pay them. I realise this will be very disappointing to them, however I cant say its unfair for 
Nationwide to ask for these funds to be returned when Ive concluded they dont belong to 
Mr C and Mrs D. When making arrangements to recover the debt Id expect Nationwide to 
treat Mr C and Mrs D with forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman