DRN-3845753
The complaint
Miss S complains that Revolut Ltd has not treated her fairly when she made payments to an 
investment scheme that now appears to have been fraudulent.
What happened
Miss S was persuaded to invest in a crowdfunding platform offering high rates of return for 
an investment in what appeared to be the legitimate production of medicinal cannabis. Her 
partner and his family had recommended this to her, and shed seen positive online reviews.
Miss S opened an account with Revolut in October 2021. She made a first payment from this 
account to the investment scheme around a week later, paying the sum of €50. 
Over the course of the next five months, Miss S sent a total of twelve payments from her 
Revolut account to the scheme - an overall sum of €24,940.99. These payments were all 
made through Euro-denominated SEPA transfers.
Unfortunately, in mid-2022 the scheme froze withdrawals and could no longer be contacted. 
Concerned shed been the victim of fraud, Miss S reported what had happened to Revolut.
Revolut attempted to recover Miss Ss funds but the firm holding the recipient account (which 
Ill refer to as B) said it could not assist. Revolut declined to reimburse Miss S for the money 
shed lost. It thought she had a civil dispute with the investment scheme and didnt think the 
evidence showed the scheme had been fraudulent from the outset.
Miss S didnt accept this and referred her complaint about Revolut to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. She noted that there were widespread 
reports that the investment scheme had likely been operating as a scam. Based on the 
evidence and regulatory warnings now available, the Investigator agreed with Miss Ss claim 
that shed likely been the victim of a scam. 
Furthermore, the Investigator thought Revolut ought reasonably to have had concerns about 
the first larger payment Miss S had sent (that being on 9 November 2021). Revolut should 
have contacted Miss S to ask her about the purpose of the transfer. But the Investigator said 
that, even had Revolut done so at the time, this wouldnt have prevented the payments from 
being sent.
She thought Miss S would likely have told Revolut that she was making payments to a 
scheme shed been recommended by people she was very close to and whom she trusted, 
whod themselves invested seemingly successfully. Shed have told Revolut shed checked 
that the scheme appeared legitimate. That included reviewing its website, which was 
professional in appearance, and Miss S also read positive third party reviews and media 
coverage. In these circumstances Revolut would have had to permit Miss S to make the 
payments - it couldnt reasonably have been expected to uncover the fraudulent nature of 
the scheme at that point in time.
The Investigator also thought Revolut had taken appropriate steps to recover the payments 
when Miss S had reported the matter, but that this hadnt proved possible. She didnt think 
Revolut needed to do more.
Miss S didnt accept this. In particular, she was concerned that Revolut might have lied 
about the steps it had taken to recover her money. She said she still thought it should be 
held liable to reimburse her now.
Because Miss S didnt agree with the Investigators findings, I have been asked to review 
everything afresh and to reach this services final decision on her complaint about Revolut. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In what follows, I am considering only Miss Ss complaint about Revolut. I understand she 
intends to separately pursue a complaint about B with the appropriate dispute resolution 
service.
I would stress that my decision here concerns solely the question of whether I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably bear liability for some or all of the losses sustained, 
given the facts available to me and the relevant obligations and expectations at the time. It is 
not intended to have any bearing on any alternate sources of redress Miss S might 
conceivably have either now or in the future. 
I do not find Miss S to have been at fault in what happened. Everything I have seen suggests 
she was the innocent victim of a complex and sophisticated deception. But that is not the 
same as saying Revolut necessarily bears liability for the money Miss S lost through this 
scheme. 
A voluntary code exists in the UK to provide greater protection for the victims of some 
authorised push payment scams. Miss S queries whether this code (the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code or CRM Code) should apply to her payments. Unfortunately, 
even if Revolut was a signatory to the CRM Code (which it is not) these payments are not 
ones that would fall within the scope of the code. The CRM Code only applies to Sterling 
denominated transfers to UK domiciled accounts, whereas the payments made by Miss S 
were non-Sterling payments to a non-UK account. So, the CRM Code does not apply to 
Miss Ss payments.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. I have gone on to 
consider whether Revolut did enough in Miss Ss case.
Firstly, Id expect Revolut to have been the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions that might be indicative of the potential for financial harm through fraud or a 
scam. In the event of identifying such a transaction, Id expect this to prompt some 
intervention, such as contacting the customer to discuss the payment, before releasing it.
I consider that by the time of the first payment of €4,500 made by Miss S, Revolut ought reasonably to have made such contact with her and taken steps to reassure itself about the 
nature of the payment she was then making. While I accept there was little to no account 
usage history against which Revolut could compare this payment, I think the characteristics 
of the payment (including the size, type and international destination) were sufficient to 
prompt such an intervention by Revolut at this point.
That intervention did not take place, so I have to consider what the consequence of that 
failure was. In other words, I need to consider what such an intervention would likely have 
resulted in, including whether it would likely have brought the scam to light at that time. In 
doing so I must also take into account the extent of intervention I can reasonably expect of 
Revolut in these circumstances.
Had Revolut contacted Miss S about the payment at the time, to ask her further details about 
that transaction, I consider Miss S had no reason but to have explained the situation openly 
and honestly in response to Revoluts enquiries. I consider it likely she would have explained 
that she was investing in a crowdfunding scheme personally recommended to her by her 
partner and his family  whod themselves invested and whom she trusted. She would likely 
have mentioned that shed also seen positive reviews from numerous online sources and 
reviewed the schemes website, including having considered the terms and conditions of the 
investment. Shed already made a previous payment and had received what appeared to be 
a legitimate confirmation that the earlier payment had been successfully received. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss S had any significant doubts at this point, and I think the 
personal recommendations shed received would have carried significant weight in her mind.
Arguably, at this point Revolut could have considered it was entitled to proceed with the 
payments it was being requested to make. It only needed to be reassured that this was not a 
payment based on fraud or a scam. Revolut was not required to conduct a detailed 
investigation into such things as the soundness of the investment proposal or whether all the 
claims made by the scheme were true. I cannot reasonably expect it to have taken such 
steps.
But even had it pressed further, I dont think the scam would have come to light at the time. 
I say this bearing in mind that this scam was an unusually complex and sophisticated 
deception. It seems that the scheme had been carefully designed to appear legitimate. It had 
already operated for well over a year, appears to have had a convincing website, and 
positive coverage online and in media reports. Several reports Ive seen suggest that many 
investors had been receiving returns from the scheme, which would have lent further 
credibility to the legitimacy of the scheme. Indeed, Miss S herself later reported to Revolut 
that shed received a payment back from the scheme.
It also appears the crowdfunding scheme may have falsely claimed that some of the offers it 
was making to the public had been approved in some form by the German financial 
regulator. The regulator later published clarification that no such approval had been granted. 
But unfortunately that public rebuttal didnt occur until June 2022, which was over a month 
after Miss S had sent her final payment to the scheme. 
A few months prior to this, in March 2022, that same regulator had flagged a concern that 
the scheme hadnt submitted an investment prospectus for one of the various offers it was 
promoting. While this could have been seen as a mere regulatory oversight by the scheme, it 
could be seen as an indication that all might not be well with its other investment offerings.
This was of course sometime after the specific point at which I think Revolut should have 
made contact with Miss S. Had it contacted when I think it should, for the reasons Ive 
explained above it would most likely have been reassured about the payment Miss S was 
then making. In those circumstances, I wouldnt then have expected Revolut to have continued contacting her regarding further payments she made to the same destination, 
some eight payments and four months later. There was nothing obvious to invalidate that 
reassurance about Miss Ss actions.
In any event, I am not persuaded the information published in March would have been 
sufficient for Revolut to have identified that the overall crowdfunding scheme was not 
legitimate at that point  unlike what could have been uncovered later in 2022.
Overall, I do not believe that Revolut could reasonably have uncovered the true nature of the 
scheme at the time I think it should have contacted her about the payments she was making. 
There simply was nothing obvious here that would have indicated to either Revolut or Miss S 
that all was not as it seemed or that it might be fraudulent in nature.
In other words, it is unfortunately the case that the very persuasiveness and professionalism 
of the scam would have made it very difficult for anyone to have uncovered the fraudulent 
nature of the scheme at this time. From what I have been able to establish, by then it had 
been operating seemingly in plain sight for over a year without fraud being identified.
So I do not find Revolut could reasonably have prevented Miss S from making the payments 
shed intended to make. It had a primary obligation to carry out her instructions, and I dont 
find that it could have uncovered sufficient cause to do otherwise at the time. It follows that I 
cant reasonably hold Revolut liable to refund her for the losses that resulted from making 
those payments.
I have also considered whether there are any other reasons that Revolut should be fairly 
held responsible for reimbursing Miss S, either in full or in part. In particular, I have given 
consideration to whether Revolut took appropriate steps when Miss S first reported the 
scam.
Miss S reported the matter to Revolut in July 2022, after learning it might be a scam. She 
argues that Revolut didnt do enough to recover her funds and that it wasnt completely open 
or honest about the steps it did take at the time.
I understand Miss Ss frustration that Revolut didnt provide her with clear information about 
the steps it took, and that some of that information contradicted what shes since learned. 
Ive reviewed the information provided by Revolut, together with all the points and evidence 
raised by Miss S (including the correspondence she has provided from B). Based on all the 
information now available to me, I am satisfied on balance that Revolut did act appropriately 
and submitted the appropriate request to B. 
Unfortunately, it appears Revolut was told that B was unable to return funds from that 
account. It was told B would log the recall request, in case such a recall later proved 
possible. I do not find Revolut was at fault in the steps it took, it attempted to recall the funds 
using what appears to have been the correct process. The recall did not succeed but this did 
not result from any fault by Revolut.
So, while I understand Miss Ss point about the information Revolut provided to her and the 
frustration this caused her, that in itself does not lead me to consider Revolut could 
reasonably be held liable to refund her. It had taken the steps it was required to take, and 
based on Bs response, there simply doesnt appear to have been the possibility of Revolut 
recovering money at the time. 
I dont think there was anything more Revolut could reasonably have done at this point to 
recover Miss Ss losses.Overall
I am sorry to hear about the losses Miss S suffered as a result of this particularly elaborate 
and complex scam. Everything I have seen indicates that she is the innocent victim here and 
has been left considerably out of pocket by a sophisticated deception.
But having considered everything, I dont think Revolut could reasonably have prevented 
these losses. I dont think either it or Miss S could reasonably have uncovered the true 
nature of the investment scheme when Miss S asked Revolut to make these payments. And 
for the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the CRM Code isnt applicable here. 
Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that Revolut should, fairly and 
reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss. I dont find that Revolut failed to meet its 
obligations including in the attempts it made to recover her funds. That means I cant fairly 
require Revolut to reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint 
about Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman