DRN-3260933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs S took out a premier multi-trip travel insurance policy,
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 21 October 2019 to 20
October 2020.
Earlier in 2019, Mr and Mrs S had booked a weeks holiday staying in a cottage, in England,
between 10 and 17 April 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement,
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. Also, on 23 March 2020, Mr 
and Mrs Ss trip was cancelled  they say in response to Covid-19 and the resulting 
lockdown.
Mr and Mrs S promptly made a claim on the policy for their pre-paid costs for the cottage.
URV declined the claim because the reason which led to Mr and Mrs Ss trip being cancelled
wasnt listed as an insured peril covered under the cancellation section of the terms and
conditions of the policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to our Service.
Initially, by way of her view dated 10 December 2020, our investigator didnt uphold their
complaint. Thats because the cancellation section of the policy didnt list  as an insured
event - being unable to travel because of government restrictions. So, she said URV had
fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and raised further points in response to our investigators view.
They felt that the claim should be covered under the cancellation section of the policy
because their outward journey was delayed by more than 24 hours because of a force
majeure event  which was listed as insured peril.
By way of a second view dated 23 February 2021, our investigator upheld the complaint on
the basis that acts of nature were included in policy definition of a force majeure. However,
acts of nature, werent defined. So, our investigator thought would be fair and reasonable to
consider Covid-19 as an unprecedented event outside of human control. She concluded that
it amounted to an act of nature and the circumstances leading to the claim were therefore
covered under the cancellation terms of the policy.
She recommended URV accept the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the
policy and to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. URV disagreed.
So, the complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. An extract of which appears below:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has
set out rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle claims promptly and
fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
URV says the claim isnt covered under the cancellation section of the policy as it isnt a
stipulated, insured event. Mr and Mrs S say the cancellation section provides cover for a
force majeure event  which is defined under the policy as:
War, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operation (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, mutiny, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution,
military or usurped power, climatic conditions and acts of nature.
I dont intend to make a finding on whether - in the absence of that term being further defined
- Covid-19 and its global impact should reasonably be considered as an act of nature in this
case. Thats because, even if it ought to be, having looked at general exclusions in the
policy, Im intending to find that theres another term relevant to this claim.
Page 15 of the policy (entitled: what is not covered) sets out important conditions and
exclusions which apply to all sections of your pre travel and travel policies.
It goes on to list a number of things URV wont pay for. And that includes:
Delay, confiscation, detention, requisition, damage, destruction, or any prohibitive
regulations by Customs or other government officials of any country.
Ill refer to this term as the prohibitive regulations exclusion.
Its hard to say with any certainty whether there was one specific reason for Mr and Mrs S
claim. I think a combination of the spread of Covid-19 and the government restrictions
introduced on 23 March 2020 impacted the cancellation of their trip.
The claim form completed by Mr and Mrs S says their trip was cancelled on 23 March 2020.
That was the same day when the UK restrictions on movement were announced by the UK
government. It was also the same day they received an email from the cottage provider
about the impact of the government restrictions. These restrictions remained in force when
Mr and Mrs S were due to start their trip on 10 April 2020.
So, I think its fair to conclude that the prohibitive regulations exclusion would apply to the
circumstances of their claim. And Im not currently persuaded that URV has acted unfairly or
unreasonably by declining the claim under the policy they had the benefit of.
Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence for consideration.
URV had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with my provisional findings. In 
summary they said:
Whilst there was a prohibitive regulations exclusion in the policy, the government 
restriction was only part of the story as to why they couldnt travel. The bigger picture was that there was a serious pandemic enveloping the country and travel wasnt a 
sensible option.
There is nothing in the contract to suggest that this was not an act of nature and 
therefore a force majeure event and the fact that the government restricted travel is a 
secondary issue.
My decision is perverse, and it allows URV to avoid liability on a technical ground.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And that includes Mr and Mrs Ss response to my provisional decision. 
I know Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed, but their further submissions dont change 
my thoughts on this complaint. And I dont uphold it. 
I acknowledge that its hard to say with any certainty whether there was one specific reason 
which led to the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
think a combination of the spread of Covid-19 and the government restrictions introduced on 
23 March 2020 had an impact. 
But Mr and Mrs Ss trip was cancelled on 23 March 2020 and that was the same day when 
the UK restrictions on movement were announced by the UK government due to emergence, 
and rapid spread, of Covid-19. This was the same day Mr and Mrs S received an email from 
the cottage provider about the impact of the government restrictions. And importantly, these 
restrictions remained in force when Mr and Mrs S were due to start their trip on 10 April 
2020.
So, I think its fair to conclude that the prohibitive regulations exclusion would apply to the
circumstances of their claim notwithstanding that prohibitive regulations were brought in by 
the UK government because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision (an extract of which appears in 
the background section of this decision), I dont think URV has acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining the claim under the policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman