DRN-3197122
The complaint
Miss N complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) who didnt cancel her home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Miss N held both a content and a building insurance policy with UKI. In 2017 she contacted 
UKI to close the policies. The contents policy was closed. But UKI said that Miss N explained 
that she thought she might be dual insured with another provider, so she would check this 
and then get back to UKI. 
UKI said that Miss N didnt get back to them and the policy auto renewed. Miss N noticed 
that payments were being debited from her account for the insurance policy that she 
believed she had cancelled. She also wanted to know why there had been two direct debits 
on her account, given that there was only one property and one person. So, she raised a 
complaint with UKI. 
In its final response, UKI said that the contents policy was closed as Miss N requested. The 
building policy was still active as UKI were waiting to hear from Miss N to confirm if she 
wanted to close the policy. As she didnt contact UKI, the policy auto renewed. So, UKI told 
Miss N that it was unable to take her concerns further. 
Miss N was given her referral rights and she referred her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
there were two policies held  a contents and a building policy. The evidence showed that 
the contents policy was closed, but the buildings policy was not. He concluded that Miss N 
hadnt instructed UKI to close the building policy. So UKI made no error and there was 
nothing further he could reasonable ask UKI to do, to resolve the complaint. 
UKI accepted the view, Miss N did not. She believed that our investigator had ignored vital 
information that she had presented to him and that he was biased. So, she asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Miss N, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Both parties accept that there had been two active policies that Miss N had taken out with 
UKI. One policy covered the contents and the other covered the building insurance. 
In 2017, Miss N contacted UKI and cancelled the contents insurance  which both parties 
accept. The issue here is whether the building insurance policy was cancelled at the same 
time. 
Miss N said that she instructed UKI to cancel the policy and because it didnt do so, the 
premium was debited from her account. In assessing the evidence, I have been provided 
with the case file from UKI. This confirms that Miss N did instruct UKI to cancel her contents 
insurance policy. It also confirms that UKI acted on her instruction and that policy was 
cancelled. 
As to the buildings insurance policy, the evidence suggests that Miss N had spoken to UKI 
about cancelling the policy. But hadnt given the instruction to cancel the policy as she was 
unsure if she had another policy with another provider. Miss N was going to check this and 
return to UKI with the information. From the evidence, I cant see that Miss N returned to UKI 
to confirm that she wanted the buildings policy cancelled and consequently, it automatically 
renewed. 
Although I understand that Miss N is adamant that she cancelled the policy, Im not satisfied 
that she did, given that UKI followed her instruction to cancel the contents policy. And had 
she given her instruction to cancel the building policy, I think UKI wouldve followed her 
instruction and cancelled that policy in the same way. 
Miss N has also raised the issue that UKI had charged her two premiums despite cover only 
being needed for one home and one person. Whilst I accept that there were two policies, 
each policy provided different levels of cover for different policies. UKI confirmed that there 
were two policies and I dont think it is unusual for two policies that provide different levels of 
cover (such as contents and buildings as in this complaint) being held. UKI confirmed that 
this wasnt a duplication of the cover it provided. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that 
Miss N wasnt double charged for covering her home.
In addition, UKI has confirmed that if Miss N provides evidence that she had been insured 
with another provider, at the same time, it would consider refunding some of the premiums 
Miss N paid. And it would include backdating up to three years premiums. But, Miss N has 
yet to provide this information and I do think UKI has been fair and reasonable in its offer. 
Overall, for the reasons I explained, I think Miss N didnt cancel her policy and UKI has been 
fair and reasonable in its offer to refund some of the premiums, provided Miss N has further 
evidence that she was dual covered. Although, I understand that this isnt the outcome that 
Miss N wouldve liked, Im unable to direct UKI to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman