DRN-2832328
The complaint
Mr D complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D took out a single loan from AvantCredit as follows: 
Loan Date 
takenAmount Date 
paidMonthly 
instalments Highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 April 
2018£3,000 Due to 
be fully 
repaid in 
April 
202136 £145.74
Mr D brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with AvantCredit. 
In summary, Mr D didnt think that AvantCredit had lent to him responsibly because it didnt 
do proper checks before lending to him.
  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. He thought that Avantcredit hadnt 
done a proportionate check before lending to Mr D  but as he hadnt seen enough 
information to show what a proportionate check wouldve revealed, he didnt initially feel able 
to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
In response, Mr D sent us bank statements for the 3 months prior to Mr Ds application for 
this loan with Avantcredit  and based on the information shown, our adjudicator 
recommended upholding this complaint. He felt that if Avantcredit had carried out a 
proportionate check it wouldve likely seen enough information to indicate that Mr D wouldnt 
be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments and so shouldnt have lent to him.
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what AvantCredit needed to do to put 
things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that Mr D hadnt provided 
his bank statements when hed applied for the loan so it had to make a decision based on 
the information he did provide and what its credit checks showed. It said that it verified 
Mr Ds income and its credit checks showed his total payments towards unsecured debt 
were 17% of his monthly net income. 
Avantcredit also said that the loan would have fully consolidated the 2 delinquent accounts 
reflected on his credit file, or alternatively gone towards any debts funded shortly prior to the 
loan application and all defaults on file were satisfied prior to the application. In support of its 
position, Avantcredit confirmed that all the loan repayments had been received on time and it 
had seen no sign of financial difficulty. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information AvantCredit 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr D. 
AvantCredit asked Mr D about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - and 
it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that AvantCredit relied on 
when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr D. 
AvantCredit recorded Mr Ds income as £2,800 per month. When looking at what he could 
afford, AvantCredit included an amount for his rent and other main living costs and allowed 
for Mr D spending £200 on other monthly expenses. 
On these figures, Mr D should still have had ample disposable income left to spend  even 
after allowing for the monthly repayments he would have to make for this loan. So 
AvantCredit felt this loan was affordable for Mr D.
Like our adjudicator, I dont think that AvantCredit properly took into account the information 
it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether Mr D would 
be able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
I think that AvantCredit could see from its credit check that Mr D had 31 active credit 
accounts and he had taken out at least nine new credit accounts within the previous 
6 months  including in the weeks running up to this loan application. I think there was a 
clear pattern showing M D was borrowing from one lender to repay others, then shortly after taking further loans before attempting to consolidate again. Historic loan information showed 
this was an established borrowing pattern over a number of years - and from the defaults 
and delinquent accounts shown it was evident that hed had some payment problems. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr D might be experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
Whilst I've noted that Avantcredit said that in the absence of Mr Ds bank statements it could 
only rely on the information it gathered I think AvantCredit provided this loan to Mr D without 
finding out information it shouldve done to check that it had a proper understanding of 
Mr Ds financial situation.
Thinking about the information its credit checks showed and bearing in mind that Mr D was 
asking Avantcredit for a substantial loan that he would be signing up to pay for the next three 
years or so, I think Avantcredit needed to make more in-depth enquiries to satisfy itself that 
the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
The concerns Ive mentioned about this loan not being sustainably affordable are borne out 
by other information I've seen on bank statements Mr D sent to us. 
Ive looked through these to see what Avantcredit was likely to have found out had it done 
more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have necessarily 
asked to see Mr Ds bank statements  Avantcredit could decide for itself what it needed to 
do to meet its obligation as a lender to carry out checks that were reasonable and 
proportionate. But in the absence of other evidence, I think the bank statements Mr D has 
sent me give a reasonable insight into his finances at the time. 
As our adjudicator mentioned, his bank statements show that the bulk of Mr Ds income was 
spent on his existing credit repayments. In February 2018 his spending on existing loans 
alone amounted to more than £1,700. And in the month or so running up to him taking out 
this loan with Avantcredit he had paid around £1,900 towards other high cost lenders. 
In these two months alone Mr D took out new loans amounting to more than £2,700. As well 
as this, his bank statements show returned direct debit payments  indicating to me that his 
debt had spiralled out of control and Mr D had serious money problems.   
This is information which I think AvantCredit couldve found out itself if it had done 
proportionate checks before agreeing to lend. 
And I think if it had sought a fuller picture of Mr Ds financial situation it wasnt likely to have 
been reassured that the loan would be sustainable for him. 
I've taken into account that Mr D said the purpose of the AvantCredit loan was to consolidate 
some loans  in other words, to pay off other debt. And AvantCredit relied on Mr D using the 
loan for this purpose when it assessed affordability.
But Mr Ds track record of borrowing suggested that debt consolidation couldnt be a 
guaranteed outcome of any lending  and AvantCredit didnt take any steps to ensure that 
the loan it provided would be used for this purpose. 
As far as I can see, it was paid direct to Mr D  so AvantCredit had no control over what it 
was used for. And given his recent borrowing, AvantCredit could see there was a real risk that Mr D might 
use this loan to help him meet his immediate needs, including loan repayments and not to 
repay loan balances with the risk that this loan would simply add to his existing debt.
Even if Mr D had used this loan for debt consolidation, I dont think AvantCredit had sufficient 
reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant 
and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his outstanding indebtedness 
overall. And based on all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I dont think it was 
reasonably able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainable affordable for Mr D.
The fact that he made his loan repayments for this loan on time doesnt mean that he was 
able to do so in a sustainable manner. And although Mr Ds actual income in March 2018 
was almost £2,829, whereas Avantcredit assessed affordability on the basis his income was 
£2,800, this difference isnt enough in my view to affect the outcome of this complaint. 
So for all these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
Like our adjudicator, I think the steps I've set out below fairly and reasonably provide 
redress for his complaint. I havent seen enough to make me think that Avantcredit acted 
towards Mr D in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. It appears that Mr D hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said about 
this so I dont think I need to say more.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D and Avantcredit have both told me that they have nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
I've kept this in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the principal amount that he borrowed when 
he took out this loan because hes had the benefit of the loan. But he has paid interest (and 
possibly charges) on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, as things stand, 
Im planning on saying that Avantcredit should take the following steps.
I dont know if this loan has been paid in full yet or whether there is currently a balance 
owing on the account so I've set out the steps Avantcredit should take to put things right in 
each case. 
If the loan has been paid AvantCredit should: 
A) refund everything Mr D paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to 
Mr D with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
If there is an outstanding loan balance AvantCredit should take the following steps: 
A) remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan balance and treat any 
repayments made by Mr D as though they had been repayments of the principal 
loan amount 
B) if this results in Mr D having made overpayments then those overpayments 
should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled and paid to Mr D
C) if there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A should 
be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr D. However if there is 
still an outstanding balance then AvantCredit should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr D
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this 
loan when it is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman