DRN-3013317
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the way that AmTrust Europe Limited (AEL) have dealt with her claim
for stain damage to her sofa under an extended warranty.
What happened
Mrs K bought two sofas and a footstool from a national retailer in July 2017. At the time of
purchase, she also bought a five-year fabric protection plan from AEL. The plan covered
accidental staining.
In September 2020 Mrs K made a claim under the plan in relation to one of the sofas. She
reported that there was stain damage to the arm, back and seat of the sofa. This had been
caused accidentally by her children.
AEL sent a technician to Mrs Ks house on two occasions. After the first technician attended
Mrs K reported that the staining to the cushions remained and so a second technician
attended. He produced a report saying that he had attempted to remove a felt tip stain and a
yellow stain off the front edge of the sofa but this was not successful. He said that parts were
needed.
AEL accepted the claim and offered to replace the fabric on the cushions or pay Mrs K £170
by way of a cash settlement. Mrs K was not happy with this as she thought that the new
fabric would not match the rest of the sofa. She also thought that the cash offer would not be
enough to replace the sofa.
Mrs K complained to AEL about their service when dealing with her claim, and also about
the settlement offered. She did not want either of the options offered by AEL and said she
wanted the sofa replaced. AEL accepted that their service had been poor and offered Mrs K
£100 compensation. They referred to section 3.3 of the terms and conditions of the plan and
said that their offer to replace the fabric on the cushions or offer a cash settlement was in
line with this. AEL also referred Mrs K to section 6.5.b which says that they cannot
guarantee an exact colour match.
Mrs K was not happy with this and brought her complaint to us. She wanted a replacement
sofa as she did not want a mismatched sofa. Mrs K said when she had a similar problem
with the other sofa, AEL had replaced it.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said that he did not agree that AEL should pay
for the cost of a whole replacement sofa. He said Mrs K should first decide if she wanted to
accept the cash offer or have the damaged fabric replaced. He went on to say that if the
fabric was replaced and it was not a suitable colour match, AEL should pay Mrs K
compensation for loss of match. He thought AEL should pay 50% of the cost of replacing the
sofa.
Mrs K said that she agreed with the investigators view, but I think she may have
misunderstood what the investigator decided. She said she would be happy for AEL to
replace the fabric, but if it did not match she would accept a replacement sofa or 50%
compensation. The investigator clarified his view that he was not asking AEL to replace the
sofa, but Mrs K did not comment further.
AEL did not accept the investigators view. They pointed out that the terms and conditions do
not guarantee an exact colour match and that if their technician thought that it was not in
tolerance then other options would be offered. They did not think it fair that they should be
asked to pay compensation for a potential non-exact colour match. They asked for the
matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 July 2021. I said:
AEL have already accepted that the stain damage to Mrs Ks sofa is covered under the 
plan. Mrs Ks complaint is about the settlement offered by AEL, and so my decision will focus 
on this.
I have looked at AELs terms and conditions carefully. Section 3 says that the plan covers
the cost of repair. AEL have attempted to remove the stain but without success. If a repair is
not possible, the terms and conditions say that the damaged part may be replaced. If this is
not possible, a replacement sofa or a cash payment may be offered. This is at AELs
discretion. Any cash settlement is limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement by
AEL.
It seems clear to me that AELs offer to settle by replacing the damaged fabric or to pay cash
in lieu is in line with their terms and conditions. There is no requirement for AEL to replace
the damaged sofa or to re-cover the whole sofa, if a suitable repair of the damaged part is
possible.
Section 6.5.b of the terms and conditions says that AEL will do its best but cannot guarantee
an exact colour match when repairing or replacing a product. I know that Mrs K is worried
that the replacement fabric will not be a good colour match. However, at the moment we
dont know how good the match will be as no replacement has been attempted.
This service has a long-established approach to these types of cases. When parts of a suite
are replaced  and the colour match isnt within reasonable tolerances  we may require the
insurer to offer to pay the consumer 50% of the cost of replacing the entire suite because
theres been a loss of match. We may say this even if the furniture plan does not provide for
it. We take this approach because we dont think it fair for the consumer to have to live with
an item which doesnt match. Neither do we think it fair that an insurer should be asked to
replace the whole of an undamaged item. However, before we would consider this approach,
I would expect the insurer to be given the opportunity to carry out the repair.
As Ive said above, I dont yet know whether any new fabric will produce a loss of match that
is outside of acceptable tolerances. AEL have said that if the colour match is not in tolerance
then they would offer alternative options for settlement. I dont think that AELs approach is
unfair.
Im aware that Mrs K had another sofa which was replaced by AEL following staining. I dont
know the circumstances of this replacement, but Im not sure it is right to compare the two.
Just because AEL thought it right to replace the other sofa does not mean they have an
obligation to replace this sofa.
For all the reasons mentioned above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I dont think it is
reasonable to expect AEL to replace the entire sofa at this stage before any attempt has
been made to replace the damaged fabric. I also think that it is premature for me to decidewhat might happen if the replacement fabric doesnt match. I think it fair that AEL should be
given the opportunity to deal with this themselves first.
Mrs K has been given two settlement options by AEL. She can either accept the cash offer
which will close her claim, or she can choose to ask AEL to replace the damaged fabric. I
understand that Mrs K would prefer for a repair to be attempted. If the repair does not
provide a tolerable colour match, AEL have said they will offer Mrs K an alternative
settlement. If Mrs K is not happy with the alternative offered, it is of course open to her to
make a further complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
AEL accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs K indicated that she would like AEL to replace the damaged fabric but did not raise any 
further issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
decision. My final decision and reasoning remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman