DRN-2031640
 
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Covea Insurance plc handled his claim on his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr B had a car insurance policy with Covea. In February 2020 he made a claim following the 
theft of the catalytic converter from the vehicle.
Mr B said wanted it to be fixed at his selected garage as he wanted a lock fitted to the 
converter as part of the fix. However Covea said the lock wouldnt be covered as part of the 
claim as it was an improvement to the vehicle. Further, it said it could only provide a 
courtesy car at its approved garage. Mr B therefore agreed to have the repairs done at 
Coveas approved garage. 
The garage arranged a date for the repairs to be done shortly after this, however this was 
delayed by a few days. When the vehicle was collected, a courtesy car wasnt provided until 
a few days later.
After the repair, the car was returned to Mr B. He said there were new marks on the bumper 
that had been caused by the garage. And he said the floor mat on the drivers side had been 
moved into a dangerous position. He also said a lot of fuel had been used while it was at the 
garage. Mr B made a complaint to Covea.
Covea partially upheld Mr Bs complaint.  It recognised that it had provided poor service and 
it agreed that the courtesy car not being provided straight away would have been 
inconvenient. It offered £75 compensation to make up for this poor service. Further it said, 
although it couldnt identify how much fuel had been used, it offered a further £20 towards 
this as a gesture of goodwill. However it didnt agree the scratches were caused at the 
garage.
Mr B wasnt happy with this as he said the scratches werent there before the repairs took 
place, so must have been caused by Coveas agent. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that there wasnt enough evidence that the damage had been caused at the garage. 
And he thought the offer of compensation Covea had made was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of concerns as part of this complaint, I have addressed these in 
turn below.
Addition of lock not covered under policy
Insurance is there to cover the cost of repairs where an insured peril has occurred  in this 
case theft. It is the responsibility of the insurer to ensure repairs are carried out in order to 
put the customer back in the position they would have been, had it not been for the incident. 
However it doesnt cover the cost of improving the vehicle. 
I appreciate why, based on his experience, Mr B would want to add a lock to his converter. 
And his argument that it should reduce the chance of a future incident. However insurance 
doesnt cover the cost of reducing the risk of claims. Only of putting things right where there 
is a claim. In the policy it states as follows:
If the repairs improve the condition of your car, we can ask you to pay part of the repair 
cost.
In this case, adding a lock would improve the vehicle. So I agree that it wouldnt be covered 
under the policy. I therefore think Covea treated Mr B fairly and reasonably by not agreeing 
to cover the additional cost of a lock. 
Delay in being provided with a courtesy car
I understand there was a delay in Coveas approved garage providing a courtesy car and 
that this would have been inconvenient for Mr B.  
I note Mr B has an additional policy with Covea specifically for replacement car cover which 
guarantees Covea will provide a courtesy car . However this is specifically for if the car is 
written off or stolen, so it wouldnt apply in this case.
Mr Bs car insurance policy states as follows:
Our approved repairerwill provide a courtesy car for the duration of repairs.
So the policy does say that a car will be provided throughout. However on this occasion the 
garage didnt have a car immediately available. And as soon as they did, one was provided. 
Further, Covea has agreed that the fact Mr B didnt get a courtesy car did cause him 
inconvenience and offered £25 compensation to make up for this. I think this is enough to 
make up for the inconvenience caused, so I wont ask Covea to do anything further. 
Damage to vehicle at garage
I have looked at the photos of the damage to the vehicle that Mr B has provided and I can 
see that there are a number of scratches near the wheels and on the bumper of the car. 
Mr B says that these werent present before it went to be repaired. 
The photos provided by the garage are inconclusive, as they dont show the areas where 
most damage was caused. So I have considered what is most likely.
Mr Bs car is over 10 years old. So I would expect to see some damage to the bodywork on 
a car of that age. Although I can see there are a number of scratches on the bumper, I dont 
think this is any more than would be reasonably expected for a car of that age. 
Further the damage appears on both sides of the bumper and next to one of the wheels. If 
this was all caused at Coveas garage there would need to be a significant number of 
scrapes in a short period of time. Therefore, on balance, I think its most likely that the 
damage wasnt caused by the garage. I therefore wont ask Covea to do anything further in 
relation this.Foot mat
Mr B also raised concerns about the drivers foot mat being moved into a dangerous 
position. Covea has explained that this may have slipped when the repairer tested the car. 
And has apologised if this was the case. I can understand why Mr B was concerned about 
this, as the placement of the mat could have caused a dangerous problem with the 
accelerator pedal. However I am pleased to hear that no such problem occurred. So 
although I understand the cause for concern, the problem was easily rectified and didnt 
cause further problems. So I dont think Covea need to do anything further in relation to this.
For all these reasons, I think Covea has treated Mr B fairly and reasonably in handling his 
claim and I think its offer of £95 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. I 
therefore wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require Covea Insurance plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman