DRN-3402697
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr S was told through a colleague about an investment opportunity with an online platform  
I will refer to as B. Mr S says he carried out an internet search and he found positive reviews 
about B. He says he also checked the company website and it looked to be legitimate. He 
got in contact with the broker for B and exchanged messages via a messaging app. He was 
told to make two payments to a cryptocurrency provider  so in March 2021 Mr S made two 
payments of £10,000 each to the cryptocurrency provider. He says he saw the warning 
Monzo provided but was manipulated by the scammer. Mr S says he then shared screens 
with the scammer through a remote desk application and his funds were moved by the 
broker for, what he was led to believe was, further trading with B. Mr S was provided with a 
log in to a portal so he could see how his investments were doing. When Mr S tried to 
withdraw money, he was told he needed to pay tax and this is when he realised it was a 
scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She considered that Monzo didnt go far enough and 
missed an opportunity to discuss the payments with Mr S. She also felt Mr S had acted 
reasonably in the circumstances.
Monzo didnt agree. It said the loss was from the cryptocurrency provider and not from his 
Monzo account. It explained a trading association has made it clear that liability for these 
types of scams should lie with the cryptocurrency firms. Monzo also provided Mr S with the 
following warning:
Remember: Legitimate investments will never guarantee profit. Legitimate
investments arent arranged over social media or things like WhatsApp.
Check out the company. See if theyre a legitimate company here [providing a link
to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Financial Services Register]. Dont pay unless
theyre registered with the FCA and youre certain you can trust them.
It said there is a balance to be struck between the benefit of protecting its customers, whilst 
not being overly disruptive in adding unnecessary friction to legitimate payment journeys and 
it cant prevent every possible scam transaction. It also considers, if it had reached out to the 
consumer in this instance, its unlikely it would have prevented the scam.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 July 2022, explaining why I was thinking of reaching an 
outcome that differed in some respects to the investigators. 
Mr S has nothing further to add. Monzo did not accept the provisional decision. It reiterated 
its position that it doesnt consider it is liable because the payments were made into an 
account in Mr Ss own name. It also said it had systems in place for unusual activity and it 
provided a warning that I agreed should have caused the consumer concern. Therefore, it 
did all it could, and it doesnt think it reasonable that Im asking it to reimburse 50% of the 
money lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Monzos response to my provisional decision. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision - I dont agree that Monzo is not liable - simply because the money was 
transferred to an account in Mr Ss name. Monzo had a responsibility to be on the look out 
for unusual activity and protect consumers from financial harm. I also acknowledged in my 
provisional decision that there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.  
The payments were unusually large and as such, were out of character for Mr S. The 
transfers were made to a cryptocurrency account. As I explained in my provisional decision - 
cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams in 
2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, Monzo had had time to understand 
these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this particular type of 
fraud. 
Whilst I acknowledged Monzo provided a warning (and I concluded that the warning should 
have caused Mr S concern), I still dont think Monzo did enough here. I think Monzo could 
and should have done more to warn Mr S about these particular types of scams  given 
industry warnings about these scams at the time. Where I think both parties could have done 
more  the fair and reasonable outcome is for both parties to share the responsibility.
So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I have 
concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold 
this complaint in part. For completeness, I have set this out below.
The payment was made to an account in Mr Ss name, so it isnt covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo 
shouldve prevented the payments from being made.
Should Monzo have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
It is not in dispute that Mr S authorised the scam payments. It is also not in dispute that Mr S 
was duped by the scammers into instructing the bank to transfer money to a cryptocurrency 
account and on from there into the scammers account. The scammers deceived him over a 
messaging platform into thinking he was making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for 
further trading. As I understand it, payments to the cryptocurrency provider were used to 
purchase cryptocurrency which was then placed in a wallet in Mr Ss name and from there 
the scammer moved the money into his own wallet. So, although Mr S did not intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.I appreciate the loss did not occur directly from Mr Ss Monzo account. And I have noted the 
guidance issued by a trade association to banks such as Monzo. But, taking into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
I accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And it doesnt automatically 
follow that Monzo is liable for a loss, just because a customer is a victim of fraud.
In response to the view, Monzo agreed the £10,000 payments were larger than previous 
payments from the account - although it says they werent significant in the wider scheme of 
payments from the account. Im not sure what it means by this latter statement, but I agree 
the payments were unusually large and as such, were out of character for Mr S. Other than 
payments to his own account or savings pot, the highest payment out of the account within 
the previous six months was for £1,389.
So, the payments for £10,000 were payment instructions that Monzo ought to have realised 
warranted additional checks before it simply processed them without question. I appreciate 
the transactions triggered a high friction warning, but I dont think the warning went far 
enough. I think in a situation like this Monzo should have spoken with Mr S to check 
everything was in order, to protect him from the risk of financial harm. I have therefore 
thought about what most likely would have happened if Monzo had spoken appropriately to 
Mr S about his instructions for £10,000 payments on 8 and 12 March 2021, before it 
executed them.
As a financial services professional, I think Monzo would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers. 
Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams in 
2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, Monzo had had time to understand 
these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this particular type of 
fraud.
So, it may have appeared on face value to have been a legitimate payment to a legitimate 
organisation. But even though the money appeared to be going somewhere safe or on (as it 
did) from here to the consumers own wallet, I dont think the conversation should have 
stopped there.Based on the industry warnings at the time, I think Monzo ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how these scams work  including that consumers often move money to a 
wallet in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster or (as was the case here) 
the fraudster having control or access to the wallet. 
If Monzo had asked who Mr S was paying his cryptocurrency to, how he had been 
contacted, and whether hed parted with personal details in order to open a trading account,  
I think Mr S would have told them about B and that he had shared personal details with them 
and Monzo would have been concerned about this. With further questioning, I think Monzo 
would have been on notice that Mr S was falling victim to a scam. And if Monzo had given 
Mr S some warnings about cryptocurrency scams including pointing out that scam firms can 
manipulate software to distort prices and returns and scam people into buying non-existent 
currency  I think this would have caused sufficient doubt in Mr Ss mind not to proceed with 
the payments.  In other words, if Monzo had carried out further or better questioning in line 
with the banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr S would have become credulous 
about the scam in time and stopped the payment (and any further payments) in its tracks. 
The fraud would have failed; and Mr S would not have lost £10,000 or the transaction that 
followed.
Could Mr S have done more to mitigate his losses?
Ive thought carefully about what Monzos obligations were, as set out above. But another 
key issue is whether Mr S acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence.
Mr S confirmed he saw the warning provided by Monzo. This clearly advised that 
legitimate investments arent arranged over things like WhatsApp. And Mr S did use 
a messaging platform exchanging many messages for quite some period of time. I 
appreciate the scammer told Mr S that all businesses do investments this way now. 
But I think the message from the bank ought to have concerned Mr S and warranted 
further checking.
Mr S shared screens and bank details with the scammer and allowed them to access 
his cryptocurrency account. I appreciate he understood this to be so B could share 
investment opportunities, information, and show how the investment worked, but I 
think this ought to have caused Mr S concern.
The warning also said to check whether the business was FCA registered and Mr S 
told us he did not check to see if B was FCA registered. 
There were warnings published by the FCA about cryptocurrency scams at the time. 
Given the warning guided Mr S to the FCA website and Mr S acknowledges he did 
visit the FCA site, I think a more detailed search about cryptocurrency investments 
wouldve provided at least some results which wouldve indicated that the offer was 
probably fraudulent.
 
I appreciate Mr S did so some research on B and it appeared to have a legitimate website. 
And Mr S did check whether the business was legitimate by clicking on the link to the FCA 
website. He also said there were no warnings after a google search and two positive 
reviews. But overall, I dont think this was enough to disregard some of the clearer warning 
signs here.Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine 
situation or wouldve proceeded without doing substantive investigation and checks to verify 
all the information they were given  which I think wouldve shown inconsistencies and 
issues in the information provided. On that basis, I think its reasonable for Mr S to share the 
responsibility with Monzo and reduce the refund on all of the payments by 50%. Therefore, 
Monzo should refund 50% of all the payments Mr S made from the payments of £10,000 on 
8 and 12 March 2021. 
I dont say any of this to diminish the fact that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam. I 
sympathise with him for that and I know he will be hugely disappointed by this decision  
especially as it differs in some respects from the investigators opinion. But I do think this is 
the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things rights Monzo Bank Ltd must: 
Refund 50% of all the payments Mr S made as a result of the scam
Pay interest on the above refund at 8% simple per annum from the date the 
payments debited the account, until the date of settlement. 1.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo 
Bank Ltd to put things right for Mr S as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Monzo is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.