DRN-1965609
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was misled by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) 
about the cost of his finance agreement.
What happened
In late 2019 Mr B and his wife visited a dealer to have his old car repaired. He says he had 
already been quoted £653 a month for the make of car he originally wanted by another 
dealer. While waiting for his car to be fixed he was offered a deal of £620 a month for a 
different car. Mr B had negative equity on his existing car and he took out a fixed sum loan 
with monthly payments of £72 to clear this debt. He says that he was told the figure of £620 
included the £72 payment.
Mr B said he had bought five cars from the same salesman and trusted him. He says that 
when he collected the car he signed the papers without checking the details. However, it 
turned out that the £72 sum was in addition to the main payment. He also says that he was 
told the car was more powerful than it is and that the sound system was as good as his old 
car, which he disputes
Mr Bs complaint was rejected by BMWFS, but it suggested he visit the dealer to see if it 
could offer an exchange. Mr B brought his complaint to this service where it was considered 
by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr B said that in addition to 
his original complaint the car had been overpriced. He also supplied a video which he said 
shows the dealer is prepared to mislead customers.
Our investigator noted Mr B had been in a similar situation with a previous car deal and had 
been used to signing two agreements, one of which was a loan to pay off negative equity. 
She said that where information is incomplete, or contradictory - as some of it is here  she 
had to base her view on the balance of probabilities. 
She noted it wasnt unusual for parties to a verbal discussion to come away with different 
understandings of any agreement which they may have reached. However, the 
documentation recorded the actual deal and while she appreciated Mr B hadnt looked 
closely at the agreement when collecting the car they set out the deal quite clearly. On 
balance she couldnt say BMWFS had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree and said the dealer had manipulated the deal and compared it to the one 
he had negotiated with the other dealer for a different car. He added that the dealer never 
offered him an exchange despite BMWFS saying it would. Our investigator analysed the 
deals offered by the two dealers insofar as she was able and said it looked like the other car 
would have been more expensive. Mr B said that the dealer had used underhand tactics to 
sell the car and these included the mis-selling of the finance. He has argued that the deal he 
was given proved to be unduly expensive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr B has shown in the pursuit of his complaint, but I dont 
consider I can uphold it. I will explain why.
This complaint is against BMWFS and not the dealer. My remit only extends to whether the 
finance was mis-sold and not to the price of the car. That was a commercial agreement 
between Mr B and the dealer and not one to which BMWFS was party. I appreciate that Mr 
Bs claim that the dealer used underhand tactics in getting him to agree to acquire the car 
and that shows it would have been willing to mislead him about the finance agreements just 
to sell a car.
My difficulty is that I do not have sufficient persuasive evidence to allow me to conclude the 
finance was mis-sold. The dealer disputes the view put forward by Mr B and his wife and I 
wasnt there to hear what was said, so it impossible to say what was actually said.
My B has said he was put under pressure as he needed to reach an agreement that day to 
get the deal. That is regrettable, but it was open to Mr B to defer matters. As for the 
comparisons he makes with deals offered on other cars I dont find these of any direct 
relevance. A variety of finance structures can be used in the sales of cars with many 
variables, and comparisons are very difficult to make in any meaningful way. 
Ultimately the deal was put down on paper and I consider it to have been set out with 
sufficient clarity which would suggest that the dealer wasnt trying to mislead Mr B. He didnt 
read it fully and I gather signed what he was asked to sign. If he had looked a little more 
closely, he would have seen that he was signing a hire purchase agreement for £620 and a 
fixed sum loan agreement for £72. 
Mr B has mentioned that the car wasnt quite as powerful as he was told or the sound 
system isnt as good as he had in his previous car. I dont consider these to be matters that 
would allow me to hold BMWFS to be at fault. It seems Mr B made a fairly quick decision to 
buy a car and there was a misunderstanding as to the payments he would have to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman