DRN-1510311
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Underwriting Ltds appointed repairer caused damage to her car 
while it was under their care. Mrs A is also unhappy with the general service provided to her.
What happened
Mrs As car was involved in an incident in January 2019. She contacted Tesco about this 
and, on 18 February 2019, asked for a repair to be booked in. Mrs As car was collected at 
the beginning of March 2019 and was returned to her on 11 March 2019.
When the car was returned, Mrs A contacted Tesco to say there were warning lights 
showing which hadnt been there when the car was taken. Mrs A said it was the oil light and 
engine management light, and she felt the garage might have drained the oil to get more 
work.
Tesco arranged for Mrs As car to be inspected and found one of the warning lights to relate 
to the handbrake which the repairer said wasnt an issue. And they said the other warnings 
related to historic faults which they were able to clear. Tesco sent Mrs A their final response 
letter which added that the engine oil issue wasnt related to the accident or the repairs.
Mrs A acknowledges there was an issue with the engine. She says she told Tesco and the 
garage about this before her car was collected, but she feels its now far worse than it was at 
that point in time. So, she believes the appointed repairer is responsible for this. 
An investigator here looked into Mrs As concerns. They noted that Mrs A hadnt been able 
to provide anything to show her car had been well maintained. And other than her testimony, 
there wasnt anything to link the problem to the incident or the repairs.
The investigator felt the customer service provided couldve been better. There had been 
some confusion about who reported the incident but said that overall, she didnt think she 
was able to award compensation.
The investigator also said if Mrs A has concerns about her roadside assistance provider, she 
would need to contact them separately.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said shes complaining about all aspects of the claim and referred to 
her roadside assistance cover. Mrs A said she didnt think she should have to contact the 
roadside assistance company directly because its included in her Tesco insurance policy, 
and that Tesco shouldve sent the company out to look at her car. But Mrs A didnt give any 
specific reasons why she disagreed with the investigators opinion.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im sorry to disappoint Mrs A further but I wont be upholding her complaint. I can see this 
has been a difficult time for Mrs A and her family and to still be without the use of her car a 
year later cant have been easy.
But to be able to uphold Mrs As complaint, in relation to the damage, Id have to be able to 
say Tesco was responsible for it in some way. If the damage resulted from the incident then 
it would be covered by the policy, but theres nothing Ive seen which makes me think thats 
the case.
Tescos notes show the engineer who inspected Mrs As car after the repairs, said the 
engine damage resulted from a lack of oil and lack of servicing. And Ive not seen anything 
to make me think otherwise. This means I dont think its likely to have resulted from the 
incident, particularly as the damage has been described as light and to the rear of the car.
Mrs A accepts she heard a noise before the car was collected for repair. She thought this 
might be a problem so informed Tesco and the repairer about it. Mrs A says she thinks the 
problem is now significantly worse due to the repairer driving it around in this condition.
I understand Mrs As concerns here but unfortunately theres nothing Ive seen which 
supports them. If shed been able to provide us with servicing records or a report from an 
alternative garage which agrees with her theory, then I mightve been able to consider this 
aspect further. But without anything other than Mrs As concerns, I cant say the garage 
caused the damage in this way  or that they caused it at all.
Like the investigator, I agree the customer service couldve been a little better. But overall, I 
think Tesco did what Id expect them to. They arranged for repairs to Mrs As car when she 
asked them too, and when she complained about the cars condition afterwards, they sent 
someone out to inspect it. I havent seen any lengthy and avoidable delays and while I 
understand Mrs A has now been without a car for over a year, I havent found that to be the 
fault of Tesco.
Ive thought about what Mrs A said in relation to the roadside assistance or breakdown 
cover. That isnt provided by Tesco, but if Mrs A asked them to submit a claim for her, Id 
expect it to do so, or at the very least tell her how she can do so herself. But none of the 
contact notes Ive seen show that Mrs A has tried to make a claim for breakdown. And while 
I understand why she thinks Tesco shouldve arranged for this as part of the claim I dont 
see where the need was, given her car hadnt broken down and was being repaired by the 
garage.
My final decision
It's my final decision that I don't uphold Mrs A's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman