DRN-3408501
The complaint
Mr A has complained that esure Insurance Limited hasnt settled a theft claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted esure in May 2019 to say that his car had been stolen. esure asked Mr A to 
provide documents in order to validate his claim including a police crime reference number. 
It said if Mr A was notified by the police that the car has been recovered, to let it know so it 
could arrange for the car to be recovered from impound. 
In July 2019 esure said it would close its file as it received no documents from Mr A. In 
response, Mr A provided some documents but not the V5C document  (logbook). Mr A said 
this was in the car when it was stolen. So esure asked Mr A to obtain a copy from the DVLA. 
esure didnt receive further documents from Mr A and it checked to find that the police had 
removed a theft marker against the car on 29 August 2021. 
In October 2019 esure contacted Mr A. He said he hadnt heard from the police since the 
date he first contacted them and as far as he was aware his car was still stolen. esure told 
Mr A he would need to contact the police to find out why the theft marker had been removed. 
It reiterated what documents it would need to consider Mr As claim and asked for all police 
correspondence. 
In October 2019 esure was able to speak to the police and obtain limited information. esure 
said the police advised that the car was in the process of being recovered and it couldnt 
provide any further details  but the police said it could provide further information to Mr A. 
In November 2019 the police told esure it would need to contact its disclosure department 
for further information. 
There was further back and forth between Mr A and esure where Mr A would contact for an 
update and esure would reiterate its requirements. Mr A said the police wouldnt tell him 
where the vehicle was. In May 2021 Mr A raised a complaint. 
esure contacted the police again to ask where the car had been recovered to and if there 
was vehicle damage. It didnt receive a reply. 
esure didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said it had tried to speak to the police and the 
finance company to get details of the location of the car but without success. And without the 
validation documents from Mr A, it couldnt progress his claim. 
Mr A asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought esures decision not to settle 
his theft claim was reasonable. But she thought it could have contacted the polices 
disclosure department as it was signposted to esure in October 2019. For this poor service, 
the Investigator recommended esure pay Mr A £150. 
Mr A accepted the Investigators findings. esure didnt provide any comments. 
So as esure hasnt replied, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer is entitled to ask for reasonable evidence to support a claim. In this case, esure 
hasnt received all of the validation documents it asked Mr A for. Mr A provided a call log 
note which shows a police log/crime reference number and a contact at the police at a local 
station. This isnt a police report as esure explained to Mr A.
So as esure hasnt received enough to validate Mr As theft claim I dont think it has acted 
unreasonably. 
When esure contacted the police officer whose details were provided by Mr A, esure was 
referred to the police disclosures department for the requested information.  I think esure 
should have made contact with this department to see if it could obtain further information 
about the location of the car. Mr A said the police wouldnt tell him where the car had been 
recovered to when it was found. 
For esures failure to contact the appropriate police department, I think it should pay Mr A 
compensation of £150. I think this is a fair sum as although it hadnt received validation 
documents from Mr A despite several requests, I think esure could have done more to try to 
progress the claim when provided with an alternative contact for the police.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr A £150 compensation for failing to contact the 
alternative police department to try and progress the claim. 
esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If esure Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman