DRN-3685372
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) froze his bank account.
What happened
Mr M had an account with Barclays. In November 2018, Barclays froze Mr Ms account. It 
said it did this after it received a freezing order from a court. In September 2021, Mr M 
obtained a discharge of this order, and contacted Barclays. But Barclays didnt unblock the 
account  and so he raised a formal complaint.
Barclays looked into this, and removed the blocks from Mr Ms account on 25 November 
2021. It responded to the complaint in January 2022. It offered to pay Mr M £500 to reflect 
the trouble and upset it caused.
Mr M says Barclayss actions in blocking the account and then the delays in unblocking it 
caused him financial hardship. He says that because he didnt have access to the funds he 
had to sell shares at a loss. He also says that the business failed to comply with the time 
limits for complaints handling in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, and recommended Barclays pay Mr M £700. 
Barclays agreed. Mr M thinks he should get more. He says that in addition to the £700 he 
should get £1,836.77, which is what he says he lost when he sold his shares, plus interest.
As the investigator couldnt resolve matters informally, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to pay Mr M £700 to settle his complaint. So Ive thought about whether 
this is fair.
Ive first considered Barclayss decision to block the account. Based on what Ive seen, the 
block arose out of court proceedings between Mr M and a third party  in the course of which 
the third party obtained a freezing order, which named Mr Ms accounts with Barclays. As 
such, I cannot conclude that Barclays acted incorrectly in freezing Mr Ms account. 
Mr M says hes unhappy that Barclays didnt share details of the court order with him. He 
says hes not aware of an exact court document that allowed Barclays to freeze his account. 
So he wants to see the document to understand the justification behind their decision.
Ive carefully considered this. I note that in his complaint Mr M said that he managed to 
indirectly relate Barclays decision to freeze the account to litigation going on behind him 
while he was not in the country. The court order itself says that it was delivered to a number 
of Mr Ms addresses and by email. And I see that the order in question was ultimately 
discharged on appeal  at which Mr M was represented by counsel. With all this in mind, Im 
satisfied that Mr M ultimately knew about the litigation and the freezing order. Given Mr M 
appears to have known about the litigation, I cant say that Barclayss refusal to send Mr M a 
copy of the freezing order has affected his position.
Following the discharge of the order, Mr M contacted Barclays to ask it to unfreeze his 
account. Barclays says this didnt happen until 25 November 2021. Barclays says this was 
because of backlogs within its department that looks at court orders. Barclays accepts this 
delay was unnecessary, and I agree.
Where I decide that something went wrong, any compensation I award is intended to put the 
complainant, as far as possible, in the position theyd be in if things had happened as they 
should have done. This can include financial losses, and compensation for material distress 
and inconvenience. And where I decide to make an award, this isnt to punish the business 
but to reflect the impact the businesss actions had on its customer.
As I say, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to block the account  so I wont award any 
compensation for that. But I have considered the impact the delays had on Mr M.
Mr M has told us about the difficulties he had getting in touch with Barclays to discuss his 
account. Hes sent us a timeline showing attempts to contact Barclays from September 2021 
onwards. I see Mr M contacted Barclays a number of times and had to raise a formal 
complaint before it sorted things out. Mr M has complained that Barclays hasnt complied 
with the time limits for complaint handling, and I can see this will have added to Mr Ms 
frustration given the delay. 
Thinking about everything that happened, our investigator recommended Barclays pay Mr M 
a total of £700 to reflect the trouble and upset everything caused. Barclays has agreed to 
this. Ive therefore thought about whether Mr M should get more.
I first note what Mr M says about the shares he sold. He says he was required to sell these 
shares to cover a funding requirement with his contracts-for-difference provider. He says he 
sold shares that had a value when he bought them of £23,725.06 for £17,405.80  a loss on 
paper of £6,319.26. He says that as he had £2,819.11 in his Barclays account, he could 
have used the money in the account instead.
But while Ive carefully considered what Mr M has said, Im not persuaded that this is a loss I 
can fairly compensate Mr M for. Mr M chose to invest in contracts-for-difference, knowing he 
may not have access to the funds in Barclayss account. And although he sold these shares, 
this meant he still had the funds in his Barclays account, which he could have used to 
repurchase the shares once Barclays released the funds. It appears Mr M didnt in fact 
access the funds in the account until 6 December 2021. Finally, the value of the shares in 
question has fallen considerably since then, so Mr M may even be in a better position for 
having disinvested than would have been the case if hed held onto the shares.
Similarly, Im not persuaded by what Mr M has said about the interest hed have been 
charged on his mortgage. Im not persuaded that Mr M would have used the funds in the 
account to reduce his mortgage and pay less interest, given hes said hed also have used 
the funds to avoid having to sell his shares.
In any case, Barclays says that the amount it originally offered already included £200 to 
reflect the month delay in discharging the court order. Altogether, I think the £700 Barclays 
has now agreed to pay will fairly compensate Mr M for both the service he has received and 
the time Mr M has been deprived of the funds. Im not going to tell Barclays to pay Mr M 
more.Ive considered Mr Ms other comments but these dont change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr M 
£700 for the poor service and delays in its return to the funds. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman