DRN-3689199
The complaint
Ms E complains that Revolut Ltd restricted and closed her account. And shed like 
compensation for the impact. 
What happened
In February 2021 Revolut reviewed Ms Es account.
Revolut asked Ms E for information about her account activity and proof of entitlement for 
payments into her account. On 8 and 9 March 2021 Ms E provided documents to Revolut  
including bank statements. However Revolut werent satisfied with the documents provided. 
So they decided to close Ms Es account on 30 April 2021 by providing 60 days notice. 
Ms E wasnt happy with Revoluts actions, so complained. But Revolut thought theyd acted 
fairly and followed the terms and conditions of her account.
On bringing her complaint to our service Ms E complained she couldnt access her funds, 
and shed like a refund of her premium account fee. On 30 April 2021 this was refunded. 
Apart from £0.66 which remains in Ms Es account all of her funds have now been 
withdrawn.  
In Ms Es complaint she mentioned an inability to access her shares. Ms Es trading account 
was managed by a different legal entity  this means any complaint she would like to raise 
about the sale or management of the shares will need to be raised separately. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Es complaint. They thought Revolut had acted fairly 
in restricting Ms Es account and then closing it. But Ms E didnt agree, so the case has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms Es account and the wider regulatory 
obligations Revolut need to comply with. Im satisfied that Revolut gave Ms E the opportunity 
to provide documentation theyd requested on more than one occasion before restricting her 
account. I can see that Ms E did provide most of the documents requested  however Im 
satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in determining they werent sufficient. 
Revoluts terms are clear in detailing their ability to review accounts and suspend them when 
necessary  and I think they initially followed these terms and conditions fairly. It follows, I 
cant say they acted unfairly in blocking access to Ms Es account. However, I do need to 
think about whether the review was completed as quickly as Id expect. And having done so 
Im satisfied Revolut completed their review in a reasonable timeframe. 
Account closure
Ms Es was notified that her account would be closed in 60 days from 30 April 2021. 
Although Ms E was allowed to withdraw her funds she couldnt operate the account as usual 
during this period. Ive considered their actions here, and Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of Ms Es account, and the criteria allowing them to close her account without 
notice. And having done so Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly.
I realise this will disappoint Ms E, but Im afraid Ive concluded that Revolut acted fairly in 
closing her account. I say this because, much as Ms E is, Revolut are entitled to choose who 
theyd like to contract with as long as they follow the terms and conditions of an account and 
dont discriminate against a customer. And therefore I wont be asking them to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman