DRN-3499327
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a 
package bank account
What happened
Mr A took out an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) on 10 October 2019. Mr A says 
he was not asked any questions to find out if the account was suitable for him.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr As complaint about the sale of his URCA but didnt 
think it should be upheld. As Mr A disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
At the time Mr A took his URCA it came with the benefit of worldwide family travel insurance, 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and home emergency cover.
Mr A has explained that when he took the URCA he was not asked any questions to find if 
the account was suitable for his needs. Mr A also says he was not told he had to register a 
mobile phone to the mobile phone insurance to use this benefit.
From the evidence provided its clear that Mr A applied for his URCA online, which he 
wouldve done in his own space and time, and without any other involvement from Halifax. 
So, it follows then that Halifax did not provide a recommendation to take the account. This 
means it did not have to make sure the account was suitable for Mr A. But it did have to give 
Mr A enough information so he could decide if it met his needs. 
The online process at the time explained the benefits of the account and gave different 
account options. It also outlined the monthly cost. Mr A would have had to actively select the 
URCA to take it.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so its not unusual to find that a 
customer is not able to use all of the benefits they come with, but this doesnt mean the 
account was mis-sold.
Mr A registered two mobile phones to the mobile phone insurance that came with the URCA 
so I think he would have known he needed to register a device and has benefitted from this 
insurance.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr A did not qualify for the other benefits that came with 
the URCA so these could have been useful to him.
In addition to the benefits that came with the URCA there was a switch offer in place which 
was a financial incentive to customers switching to Halifax. This offer would have been 
advertised online at the time Mr A applied for his URCA and I can see that £150 was 
credited to his account on 15 October 2019. I think this would have played into Mr As 
thought process when he decided to take the account.
In summary I think Mr A chose to take the URCA based on his circumstances at the time 
and has benefited from having the account. I dont think the URCA was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman