DRN-3455726
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Unum Ltd unfairly declined her group income protection claim. 
What happened
Mrs T has access to a group income protection policy through her employer. 
The policy is underwritten by Unum Ltd (Unum). It is designed to provide a benefit (payable 
for a maximum period of three years after a deferred period of 26 consecutive weeks) if a 
member becomes incapacitated, and unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
In May 2020 Mrs T made such a claim. She explained shed been unable to work since July 
2019 because of stress at work which had been provoking anxiety and low mood. 
Unum declined Mrs Ts claim. It said it had been submitted 129 days late and that had 
impacted its ability to obtain contemporaneous evidence. But, it had considered the medical 
evidence available and that had shown Mrs Ts absence was caused by work related stress. 
Mrs T complained and said Unum hadnt considered everything. She said her workplace 
issues had directly had a negative impact on her longstanding condition (Behets 
syndrome). And that impact had manifested itself in a number of symptoms such as fatigue, 
pain, joint inflammation, and leg problems. Mrs T asked Unum to reconsider matters and 
said her health was deteriorating, she was unable to sleep or carry out day to day non-work 
activities, and she was unable to perform any aspects of her work. 
Unum maintained its decision and said it had considered all of the medical evidence made 
available to it despite the late notification. It acknowledged Mrs T had a long standing 
inflammatory condition, which could have temporarily impacted her ability to function. But it 
said the medical evidence hadnt documented that; itd supported her absence being caused 
by stress at work, which had then led to a workplace grievance and subsequent dealings in 
relation to that.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the available 
evidence demonstrated incapacity either and said Unum had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs T disagreed with that opinion and asked that the matter be decided by an ombudsman 
but did not provide any additional arguments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will not be upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator 
before me. Ill now explain why:
In line with the obligations placed on Unum by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS), it has a responsibility to 
consider claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions of the group policy explain benefit will be paid if a member 
(so here, Mrs T) becomes incapacitated and unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury. So, it 
wouldnt be enough for the medical evidence to demonstrate that Mrs T was unwell. 
It would need to demonstrate that an illness or injury had been the reason for her 
being unable to perform the above during the policys deferred period and beyond. 
Despite the late notification of Mrs Ts claim Unum did go on to consider all the 
medical evidence made available to it. I think that was fair. Having done so, it said 
the medical evidence did not demonstrate incapacity and its chief medical officer 
agreed. Mrs T did not agree with that and said the evidence did demonstrate 
incapacity. So, Ive looked at what was available and without reciting everything note:
oMultiple fitness to work certificates were issued for Mrs T by her GP. Those 
certificates (more commonly known as fit notes) included the following 
reasons for absence: stress at work causing anxiety and low mood, stress at 
work and investigation of hoarse voice, and stress at work. The fit notes didnt 
provide any wider context however as to how, or if, the above impacted Mrs 
Ts ability to perform the material and substantial duties of her insured 
occupation. 
oConsultation entries in Mrs Ts GP records also referred to her perceived 
difficulties at work. But they didnt provide any context or specific opinion on 
the way in which those difficulties were impacting Mrs Ts actual ability to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her insured occupation either. 
Reference to Mrs T having experienced a flare up of her asthma, a problem 
with her voice, and a flare up of her Behets which had mainly affected her 
right leg was also made. But there was a lack of detail surrounding any 
impact this had on Mrs Ts actual work abilities there too.  
oLetters from the NHS National Centre of Excellence for Behets syndrome 
detailed regular reviews Mrs T had with the service. Overall, these described 
her condition as well-suppressed, actively low, or showing no signs of activity. 
They too referred to Mrs Ts problems at work, a flare up of symptoms, and 
noted stress could be an exacerbating factor for symptoms too. They 
acknowledged Mrs Ts condition may be prone to relapse in the future and set 
out sympathy toward Mrs Ts situation. But while they referred to Mrs Ts 
condition affecting her pace of work, there was again a lack of detail 
specifically regarding her being actually unable to perform the duties of her 
work because of illness or injury. 
oAn occupational health (OH) report found Mrs T was temporarily unfit for work 
because of symptoms in the form of stress, anxiety, and low mood. The report 
noted that during a flare up of Mrs Ts Behets syndrome and symptoms 
such as pain and fatigue, she would be temporarily unfit for work. But it also 
said:
Following my assessment of (Mrs T) in Occupational Health, her current 
symptoms include stress, anxiety and low mood, together with an impact on 
her confidence and self-esteem, which deem her temporarily unfit for work at 
present. (Mrs T) has indicated to me that she does not feel well supported by 
current line management, which I understand is the subject of her current grievance and her current sickness absence. 
So the OH report did not demonstrate that Mrs T was unable to work because 
of an illness or injury either. It found that she was unable to work because of 
problems stemming from the workplace. 
Its not disputed that Mrs T has a long-standing condition. Nor that she was going 
through a difficult time at work and that did, at times, lead to an exacerbation of some 
Behets symptoms. But having reviewed the medical evidence in this complaint, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Unum to find it didnt demonstrate an incapacity in 
line with the policy terms. I think it was reasonable of Unum to find the evidence 
suggested Mrs Ts absence was because of stress at work, and the grievance and/or 
grievance related process that went on to follow. So, I too am of the opinion that 
Unum did not decline this claim unreasonably. 
I empathise with the circumstances Mrs T explained led to her absence and the 
above is in no way intended to detract from that. Although I realise Mrs T will likely be 
further disappointed by this, I will not be interfering with Unums position on this 
occasion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman