DRN-3101763
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given them a cash refund of 
the premium they paid for their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 23 October 2019 to cover a 
holiday between 29 September and 14 October 2020. The insurer was Great Lakes. The 
premium Mr and Mrs G paid for the policy was £588.27. The policy included cover for some 
medical conditions, as well as gadget cover.
Firstly, our investigator explained that the gadget cover was underwritten by a different 
insurer, who has offered Mr and Mrs G a full refund. Therefore, I'm only considering the 
elements of the policy which are underwritten by Great Lakes. Any outstanding issues 
related to the gadget cover would need to be addressed with the relevant underwriter.
Mr and Mrs G got in touch with Great Lakes on 4 June 2020 to ask Great Lakes to defer the 
policy, as they were moving their holiday to take place between 29 September and 
14 October 2021  so, exactly a year later.
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs G could move the single trip dates within 18 months of the 
original purchase date of the policy. But as the new holiday dates didnt fall within this time, 
Great Lakes offered to cancel the policy and issue Mr and Mrs G a pro-rata voucher refund 
of the premium they paid for the policy. Great Lakes calculated the pro-rata amount as 
£179.29.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this offer, as they either wanted Great Lakes to move the 
dates of their policy to cover their holiday, or to issue a full refund of their premiums in cash. 
So, they brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this complaint. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 23 October 2019 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought a pro-rata voucher refund was fair and reasonable, but she didnt think Great 
Lakes had calculated it correctly. Following this, Great Lakes updated the calculation in line 
with what our investigator recommended, and it was now willing to offer a pro-rata voucher 
of £213.35. The voucher is valid for 36 months, its fully transferrable, and it can be used to 
buy either an annual or a single trip policy. Our investigator thought this was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs G arent happy with this offer, as they want the refund in cash instead of a 
voucher. They say they have no future plans go to abroad now, and Mrs G cannot be put at 
risk due to her medical condition during the Covid-19 global pandemic.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy outline their cancellation rights 
under the contract. They say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly in declining to change the 
single trip dates to more than 18 months from the original purchase date. Based on 
what Ive seen, Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs G the same it would treat any other 
policyholder in the same circumstances.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance also says that theres no 
refund for cancellations after the 14 day cooling off period.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Mr and Mrs G were covered from 23 October 2019 for a number of listed events 
insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. Great Lakes 
has offered a pro-rata refund from the date Mr and Mrs G said theyre moving the 
dates of their holiday  which Great Lakes didnt agree to cover. Overall, I think Great 
Lakes updated pro-rata refund offer is fair and reasonable.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
complaint because its valid for 36 months, it can be gifted to a third party, and it can 
be used to buy any policy. So, I dont think that the terms of the voucher are so 
restrictive that it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs G to accept it.
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said about her medical condition, and how she 
doesnt want to take the risk of travelling in the current circumstances of Covid-19. I fully appreciate what Mrs G says. But Im also mindful that when she sought medical 
advice on this, she wasnt advised against travelling  rather, this would be her 
choice. Overall, Im not persuaded that there are exceptional circumstances here that 
mean it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs G to accept a voucher, instead of a 
cash refund.
My final decision
Its my decision that the offer Great Lakes Insurance SE has made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to issue the pro-rata 
voucher to Mr and Mrs G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman