DRN-3414482
The complaint
Miss V complains Ageas Insurance Limited offered her an unfair settlement amount under 
her motor insurance policy when her car was written off. She says it should honour the offer 
it made originally and she accepted.
What happened
Miss V has a motor insurance policy covering her classic car. The policy was renewed in 
June 2021 for around £317 with an excess of £50. 
In July 2021, Miss Vs car was involved in an incident with another driver so she made a 
claim on her policy. Ageas says there was a delay of about three weeks in Miss V providing 
documentation it needed to consider the claim. Miss V says this was caused by Ageas 
emailing her rather than writing to her by post as her broker usually did  and asking for her 
driving licence (which at the time wasnt available) rather than the licence of the named 
driver who was driving at the time.
Once all of the documentation was provided, Ageas valued Miss Vs car at £7,000. It says 
this valuation was based on photos shed provided and Miss V saying the car was in good 
condition. The following day, on 30 July 2021, Miss V sent Ageas an email highlighting that 
she thought the value it had given was low and asking that it looks into it further. She 
emailed again two days later asking it to give an acceptable offer.
Ageas agreed to look at things again. Around a week later on 9 August 2021, its notes show 
an engineer valued the car from photos provided by the salvage company and considered it 
was in poor condition. The notes suggest Miss V would be given an opportunity to accept the 
original offer otherwise it would be voided and a new  potentially lower value would be set.
Ageas has given us correspondence and recordings of calls that took place with Miss V on 
9, 10 and 11 August 2021. She says she accepted the valuation of £7,000 on 9 August 2021 
and it was withdrawn after this. Ageas says shed declined the offer on 30 July 2021, 
2 August 2021 and again around 9 August 2021 so it was voided. On 16 August 2021, 
another engineer physically inspected the car and valued it at around £3250.
 Unhappy with Ageas offer, Miss V made a complaint. But as things werent resolved, she 
asked our service to look into it. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part only. She 
thought Ageas had acted reasonably in withdrawing its offer as Miss V wasnt satisfied with 
it. But she thought it couldve explained things more clearly. And she thought the value of the 
car should be increased slightly considering trade guides shed looked at. As Miss V didnt 
accept what our investigator said, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022. Based on what Id seen so far, I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part and Ageas should pay the increased valuation it had 
agreed to following our investigators assessment plus £100 as compensation for the trouble 
and upset it caused. In summary I thought:
Miss V hadnt accepted Ageas valuation offer of £7,000 as she continued to dispute it. 
And I thought Ageas made it clear she couldnt accept it if she wanted it reconsidered. 
Miss Vs car was over-valued initially due to her providing incorrect information. So I 
didnt think it was fair to tell Ageas to honour the offer even if it had been accepted. 
Its not unreasonable for Ageas to rely on trade guides to work out the estimated market 
value of Miss Vs car. 
The adverts Miss V had provided were unreliable as they were for cars that seemed to 
be in better condition than hers. And I didnt think adverts accurately reflect market value.
The valuation given by Ageas was reached after Miss Vs car had been physically 
inspected by an engineer and using photos provided by her and the salvage agency. So 
I wasnt satisfied Ageas had relied on photos that made her car look worse. 
From listening to the call recordings, Ageas had caused Miss V confusion by not 
explaining things clearly and providing conflicting information  and I didnt think shed 
have felt listened to. It also seemed to unnecessarily pressure her to accept or reject the 
offer when it was clear she was confused. 
Ageas hadnt caused unnecessary or unreasonable delays in valuing Miss Vs car. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Ageas 
accepted my provisional decision and said it would make the payment Id suggested minus 
the excess. Miss V didnt accept my provisional decision. She forwarded us emails between 
herself and Ageas. She asked Ageas for details of the engineers whod valued her car and 
for information about exactly when the original valuation was voided. And in response, 
Ageas listed the damage to her car, that it had reduced the value by £500 and placed it in 
the salvage category of B and gave the date it considered the offer was voided.  
Miss V sent us a number of emails disagreeing with my findings. She explained in summary:
She accepted the initial offer, didnt ask for it to be increased after 9 August 2021 and 
simply asked for a second offer which is standard practice.
Ageas ignored her acceptance of the offer and instructed engineers to revalue her car.
Ageas didnt withdraw its offer until after she accepted it.
It shouldnt have taken so long for a desktop valuation to be provided. Waiting for this 
and calling every day to chase caused her a great deal of distress. 
The Ageas agents  and she highlighted one individual in particular  were rude and 
unprofessional to her rather than explaining things. 
Ageas didnt make it clear the offer had been withdrawn and it needed to legally. She 
wasnt given any warnings of what might happen.
She is devastated and traumatised by whats happened  and shes lost everything.Her complaint about the initial delays is irrelevant and Ageas used it as a distraction. 
Whilst she accepted the examples of vehicles shed provided were in a better condition 
than hers, she wouldnt be able to find another car in the same condition for the amount 
suggested in my provisional decision. She wanted Ageas to show this would be possible.
She accepts the cosmetic condition of the car is disputed. But she says it was in good 
mechanical order and shes paid for works which havent been taken into account.
She wasnt made aware that the value of her car had been reduced by £500. 
She believes an Ageas agent withheld information and didnt provide a second, fair offer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss V is very upset and disappointed with whats happened and I can understand 
why. But having considered all of her comments very carefully, based on everything Ive 
seen, Ive decided to still uphold her complaint in part only. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Miss V firmly believes she didnt continue to dispute the offer of £7,000 after 
9 August 2021. But Ive listened to the call recordings with her and read the emails she sent 
and I dont agree. In any event, even if I did agree with what shes said, it doesnt 
automatically follow that I think Ageas should honour its original offer. I say this because 
since making that offer, its found it wasnt a fair valuation based on the actual condition of 
the car. And Im satisfied it was valued too high because of inaccurate information Miss V 
provided. So it wouldnt be fair for me to direct Ageas to honour it and pay more than the car 
was worth as that would put her in a better position than she was in before the accident. 
Ive thought very carefully about the time it took for Ageas to provide its final offer to Miss V. 
From the point of the insured event on 6 July 2021 to when the final offer was communicated 
on 16 August 2021, around 27 working days had passed. And considering the car had been 
valued more than once during this time and the engineer needed to carry out a physical 
inspection and consider a lot of information in order to value the car again, I dont think this 
length of time is unreasonable. 
I know Miss V contacted Ageas to chase for an update on what was happening very 
regularly and thats because she was very worried about things and felt stressed. But Im not 
persuaded she needed to or that it helped move things along. I also have to consider 
whether Ageas caused unreasonable delays which caused her distress over and above 
whats normal for this type of claim and I dont think it did in this case.
Miss V says the call handlers she spoke to were rude, unprofessional and didnt explain 
things to her. And from listening to the calls Ive been given, I do agree they couldve 
explained things more clearly to her and ensured she was given consistent information. But 
Ageas has now agreed to pay Miss V £100 to make up for this. And considering the number 
of days this happened over  and the conversations that took place, I think thats fair. 
Miss Vs said she wouldnt be able to find another car for the amount offered. But shes not 
given any evidence to support this other than the advertised cars which she accepts were in 
a better condition than hers. I know Mrs Vs provided a number of invoices for works done and parts shes bought for her 
car. But much of those invoices are for car maintenance  which is necessary to maintain 
the market value. The valuation was based on a physical inspection of her car (which 
wouldve included the works shes done) and trade guides to work out its market value. 
Thats standard practice and Im not persuaded its unfair for Ageas to rely on that here. 
In the further information Miss V provided to us, Ageas has said the value of her car was 
reduced by £500 due to pre-existing damage. She says this is unfair and she wasnt made 
aware of it earlier. And I cant see that she had been. But since coming to our service, Ageas 
has agreed to increase its offer to £3,688 to reflect the average valuations across different 
specialist trade guides our investigator looked at. This takes into account the age and 
mileage of the car. The investigator didnt suggest Ageas apply any reductions after the 
valuation to reflect pre-existing damage and Ageas new offer reflects that. So whilst I accept 
what Ageas has said now mightve caused Miss V some confusion, I dont think shes lost 
out financially as a result.  
Putting things right
Overall, to put things right in this case, I think Ageas should increase its valuation offer for 
Miss Vs car to £3,688 and pay Miss V £100 as compensation for the distress, confusion and 
upset it caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Vs complaint in part and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept or reject my decision before 
3 June 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman