DRN-3473247
The complaint
Ms B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave her a line of credit when she was
already in a significant amount of debt. She said this facility put her further into debt and was
unaffordable for her.
What happened
Ms B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in April 2018 and she was given a
facility with a £1,360 credit limit.
It seems Ms B has had some problems repaying the facility but Drafty has confirmed the
account was closed with a zero balance in December 2020.
Ms B was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to her limit. She was also
able to borrow further, up to her credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be
clear, Ms B was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys first final response letter (in November 2020) it explained the information it
gathered from Ms B before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly
repayment of around £153, Ms B was likely to be able to afford her credit facility.
Drafty also provided details of the times it asked Ms B to check her income and expenditure
with it, and on those occasions Ms B declared there had been no change. Overall, Drafty
didnt think it was wrong to have approved the credit facility.
It then seems Drafty issued a second final response letter at the end of 2021. In this second
final response letter Drafty partly upheld Ms Bs complaint. It said that allowing Ms B to use
the facility after 16 October 2019 was in the long run not sustainable for her. It agreed to pay
compensation to Ms B of £124.93 it also agreed to remove any negative information from
her credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Bs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Ms B was likely to be
able to afford the facility  based on the minimum payment amount, should the full amount of
credit available have been drawn down, outlined in the credit agreement. So, she didnt think
it was wrong to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stopped Ms B from drawing down
further on the facility by 26 June 2019 because she wasnt using the facility in the way that
the product literature said.
Ms B didnt initially respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Drafty didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response it made a number of
points including:
1. It accepts that long term, persistent high utilisation of a line of credit  such as a 
credit card may indicate unsustainability.
2. Drafty applied a test to consider the period of utilisation and it felt that further 
drawdowns from 16 October 2019 were unsustainable for Ms B.
3. Drafty suspended the line of credit in February 2019 as Ms B missed her repayment 
and gave her the chance to get back on track with her repayments without allowing 
her to borrow again.
4. No funds were borrowed by Ms B between March and May 2019 before making her 
minimum repayment in June and re-borrowing again within five days.
5. From then until October 2019 she borrowed smaller amounts of between £20 and 
£50 before making a repayment of over £608.
6. Following the removal of the suspension in March 2019 Drafty monitored the facility 
for 3  4 months of borrowing, which is why it arrived at its conclusions to partly 
uphold the complaint in October 2019.
7. June 2019 was the first time Ms B had re-borrowed for a number of months and this 
one transaction is not unreasonable usage.
8. Drafty says the guidelines issued by the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) for this type of credit state that a customer paying the minimum 
amount required under the agreement is not, by itself, a sign of possible or actual 
financial difficulties.
9. In September 2018 the FCA updated its regulations to say that if a customer has 
been making persistent minimum payments, on a credit card, a business must 
contact them to prompt them to review their payments after 18 months and offer 
them reasonable repayment options after 36 months.
10. Drafty contacted Ms B on a number of occasions to ask her to confirm her income 
and expenditure while she had the facility. But there were no signs to show 
unsustainability until the 18 month trigger at which point Drafty has upheld the 
facility.
11. Drafty says that if this was a credit card account then Ms B making the repayment 
and returning for new credit wouldnt mean that the facility was unsustainable.
12. Drafty therefore says that the Financial Ombudsman is holding it and the running 
credit facility to a more onerous standard.
13. Finally, Drafty said: What we had was an affordable line of credit, being used within 
the bounds of the terms and condition, with no requirement or expectation for a 
particular borrowing to be repaid in any given timescale, with no indication of distress 
or financial hardship and where our behaviour was in line with the FCA guidance of 
2018.
The offer Drafty made in the second final response letter, was put to Ms B as part of the
ombudsman referral process. She didnt have anything further to add and she told us she
agreed with the adjudicators outcome.
The complaint was then passed to me and I issued a provisional decision, upholding the 
complaint in line with what the adjudicator had said, but I provided some further detail and 
reasoning. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
The relevant regulations in place at the time Ms B was initially given her running
account credit facility
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty gave Ms B this facility
when it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant
regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. The affordability
requirements set out in Section 5.2 of CONC were subsequently replaced by the new CONC
5.2A in November 2018. But Ive referred to the rules that were in place at the time Drafty
provided this facility to Ms B.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a
consumer credit this type. And it says a firm had to consider
the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation as well as the ability of the
customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit
agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement (like Ms Bs
facility), to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in
mind when considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2) says;
a firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the
customers financial situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability
to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R
1. should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences..
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Ms Bs
Drafty facility.As explained, Ms B was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand
whether Ms B would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Ms Bs repayment record for any sign that she
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Ms B were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into account.
As explained, Ms B wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what she
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a facility where there
was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period (CONC 5.3.1(8))
of time is. So, I think its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Ms B was granted a facility with Drafty with a £1,360 limit. In the credit agreement, a
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the cost of the facility to Ms B. This hypothetical
situation assumed that Ms B did the following:
1. drew down her maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Ms B repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Ms B done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £1,845.17 meaning a total monthly
repayment of around £153.76.
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Ms B could make monthly repayments of around £154 at an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Ms Bs application after shed provided details of her monthly
income and expenditure and it looked at her credit score. It says the information it gathered
showed that Ms B would be able to comfortably make payments of around £154 a month.
In these circumstances it thought it was reasonable to lend.
The first thing for me to say is that this was Ms Bs first application for credit with Drafty. The
information provided does suggest that Ms B was asked to provide details of her declared
income of £1,600 and declared expenditure of £525. This left Ms B with disposable income
of just over £1,000 per month to service and repay the facility.
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. Based on this, it was aware that Ms B
didnt have any defaulted accounts or accounts in arrears. So, there was nothing here which
wouldve either led to Drafty to consider declining the facility or to have prompted it to have
carried out further, more in-depth checks.
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty
asked Ms B, this was Ms Bs first facility and the other information  such as Ms Bs credit
score, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to rely on the information Ms B provided.
I accept Ms Bs actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the
information provided, or the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its
decision based on the information it had available at the time.
At this stage of the lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate
checks wouldve extended into Drafty asking Ms B to evidence what she was declaring, or it
asking her for her bank statements. So, overall I dont think that Drafty treated Ms B unfairly
or unreasonably when it initially provided her with an open-ended credit facility in April 2018.Draftys comments in response to the adjudicators assessment
Before, I begin to look at what happened in this case, I think it would be appropriate to deal
with Draftys concerns and comments around how the Financial Ombudsman deals with
complaints about its open-ended credit facility.
I think its best to address these points here, so when I review Ms Bs usage of her facility
and whether Drafty acted fairly and reasonably towards this the parties understand the
regulatory obligations in place.
In short, it seems that Drafty has said that the Financial Ombudsman is placing an onerous
burden on it given the rules and regulations that are applicable to credit card and revolving
retail credit providers.
It also gave some specific information about why, in Ms Bs case, it felt the uphold point that
it was proposing (October 2019) was reasonable.
In this part of the decision Ive addressed the arguments Drafty has made about its product
in general. The case-specific concerns in relation to Ms Bs usage of the facility, are dealt
within the next section of the decision.
Drafty, in the second final response letter agreed it shouldnt have allowed Ms B to continue
using the facility from the end of October 2019. Whereas, our adjudicator felt that facility
should have been withdrawn in June 2019. Ive considered what the FCA says at the time (in
CONC) to see what where the actual rules were at the time.
Ive also, where appropriate referred back to the various numbered points that Drafty made
in response to the adjudicators assessment.
Firstly, point 8 was Drafty explaining what the FCA says about repaying the minimum
amount each month and how this on its own is unlikely to lead to a conclusion that the facility
was unstainable. The relevant section in CONC, at the time is 6.7.3. For completeness, Ive
included the relevant section of CONC below:
Business practices: credit cards
A firm must monitor a credit card customers repayment record and any other
relevant information held by the firm and take appropriate action where there are
signs of actual or possible financial difficulties.
(1) not set out here
(2) not set out here
(3) A customer paying the minimum amount required under the agreement is not, by
itself, a sign of possible or actual financial difficulties under CONC 6.7.3AR. It may,
however, be such a sign where, for example, a customer with a pattern of paying
more than the minimum required payment reduces the payments to the minimum
required payment due, but their pattern of drawing down credit on the card does not
materially change.
(4) not set out.
I think that it might be worth me starting by stating my surprise at Draftys reference to this
section of the regulators rules. I say this because CONC is clear in stating that this section
of the rules specifically refers to credit card providers. And while Drafty provided Ms B with a
running credit facility, it clearly didnt provide Ms B with a credit card. There are clear
differences between Draftys product and a credit card  for example, Draftys product does
not provide Section 75 (of the Consumer Credit Act (1974)) protection and cannot in itself be
used to make retail purchases.
So, while I do accept that CONC 6.7.3 says that repaying the minimum each month is not byitself a sign of financial difficulties, this guidance is very clearly aimed at credit card providers
and not Drafty.
Given that Im required to make findings in line with the rules and regulations that are
applicable at the time, I dont see how this rule is relevant to my consideration of Ms Bs
complaint.
Drafty also refers to CONC in point 9 (in response to the view) which was to do with the
trigger points for persistent debt. Again, Ive quoted the relevant section  which is CONC
6.7.27R that were applicable at the time. Ive not quoted the whole of the CONC rule here,
but this is part, which mentions the 18 months trigger point.
Credit cards and retail revolving credit: persistent debt
(1) This rule applies to a firm with respect to communicating with a customer about,
and receiving payments or exercising rights under, a regulated credit agreement
for a credit card or retail revolving credit, if the firm assesses that the amount the
customer has paid to the firm towards the credit card balance or retail revolving
credit balance over the immediately preceding 18-month period comprises a
lower amount in principal than in interest, fees and charges.
(2) A firm must assess whether the condition in paragraph (1) is met at least once a
month.
(3) The rule in paragraph (1) does not apply:
(a) where the balance on the credit card or under the retail revolving credit
agreement was below £200 at any point in the 18-month period; or
(b) where the firm has sent a communication to the customer in accordance
with paragraph (4) in the preceding 18 months in relation to the credit card or
retail revolving credit facility; or
(c) where the firm is taking steps to treat the customer with forbearance under
CONC 6.7.37R, is otherwise taking equivalent or more favourable steps in
relation to the customers account, or CONC 6.7.39R applies.
(4) Where the rule in paragraph (1) applies in relation to a credit card credit
card customer or a retail revolving credit customer, a firm must, in an
appropriate medium (taking into account any preferences expressed by the
customer about the medium of communication between the firm and the
customer) and in plain language:
Again, the requirement to consider what interest fees and charges have been applied in the
previous 18 months as a potential trigger point to show financial difficulties is targeted
at credit card companies and retail revolving credit. Neither of which are Drafty.
While Im mindful of what other credit providers obligations are, Drafty arent bound by them
because as Ive said Drafty doesnt provide a credit card or retail revolving credit.
Indeed, Ive looked at Draftys website and I cant see any reference to its product being like
a credit card. If anything, the product is marketed as being an alternative to an overdraft.
And, in terms of price at least, Draftys product is far closer to an overdraft  albeit more than
double the rate typically charged by most banks  than a credit card.
As it stands today, and what was applicable to Drafty at the time, I dont think comparing
Draftys facility to a credit card and therefore the obligations which go along with it when
thinking about persistent debt is useful or appropriate.
Why I think Drafty shouldnt have provided further funds after June 2019
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have provided the facility, that wasnt the end of
its obligation to Ms B. As Ive said above when the facility was approved, Drafty wasregulated by the FCA and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should
be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
(2) This rule does not apply in relation to a credit card unless the card is a business
credit card)
Further to the points Drafty made in response to the adjudicators views, it clear again that
CONC has separate rules that are applicable for credit cards and retail revolving credit
compared to this sort of credit facility.
If Draftys product was a credit card and, for the avoidance of doubt, it isnt, then Drafty
wouldnt be required to monitor the facility in the way that CONC says.
But, as Draftys product isnt a credit card then Ive had to consider whether there were signs
of actual or possible financial difficulties. Its also worth saying at this point that CONC 1.3
provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present, could be suggestive of 
potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Ms Bs repayment record
and how she used the facility and step in if and when she showed signs of possible financial
difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and taken action in June 2019. By this
point, our adjudicator thought that Ms Bs borrowing history showed she was potentially
reliant on the facility.
This was based on a pattern whereby, almost every month, Ms B repaid the minimum
payment and then sometimes immediately or within a week she would return for further credit 
and she took almost the maximum amount she could. So, the adjudicator wasnt satisfied
that Ms B was making any headway into what she owed Drafty and instead she was
borrowing further to cover the hole making the payments was leaving in her finances.
As Ive explained above, Drafty was required to monitor Ms Bs account and step in where
financial difficulty became apparent. I agree with the adjudicator that there didnt seem to be
anything concerning, such as consecutive repayment failures or patterns of unsustainable
borrowing before this point.
In order to see whether I think it was fair and reasonable to have allowed Ms B to continue to
draw down from June 2019 onwards, Ive considered the relationship between when
repayments were made to Drafty, the value of those payments, and then when Ms B
returned for further borrowing. Ive also considered whether there were any signs of financial
difficulties taking into account what Drafty knew or ought to have been aware of at the time.
After all, if Ms B was making significant repayments to Drafty, and then quickly
drawing down a similar sum again  or up to her credit limit, this might have indicated that
she wasnt using the facility as it was designed to be used, and she therefore may not have
been able to afford the repayments.
I agree with the adjudicator that what Drafty was expecting to see wasnt happening by now.
As Ive explained, as Drafty provided Ms B with a revolving credit facility she needed to
repay what she borrowed, plus the interest due, within a reasonable period of
time  but this clearly wasnt happening.
Indeed, by June 2019 Ms B had been using the facility for 14 months and had made no
headway into repaying what she had borrowed. Instead, Ms B was effectively servicing the
debt with further borrowing from Drafty and not reducing it. Ive explained why below.
Initially Ms B drew down £1,300 of her £1,360 credit limit on 25 April 2018. At this point, MsB only had a small amount of available credit. On 25 May 2018 Ms B made an online
payment of £100  but this covered some of the interest and charges as well as some of the
capital. As a result of this, over the course of the next week Ms B was able to drawdown an
additional £70. By this point - June 2018 Ms B had only £17.56 of available credit which she
could drawdown.
Between her June 2018 and her February 2019 statements a similar pattern emerged. Ms B
would make what looks like in most months an automatic minimum repayment to the facility,
and then she would come back and drawdown almost all of the available balance, this
normally occurred within a week of making her repayment. But there are occasions such as
in July and October 2018 where she borrowed the further funds on the same date as the
automatic repayment.
In short, Ms B was making her minimum repayment and then drawing almost back up to the
maximum credit facility that she had  most months she had less than £10 of available credit
to access. Indeed, her August statements shows she only had £1.22 of available credit. By
January 2019 statement she only had £6.88. So, some six months later she was still almost
at her credit limit despite making payments of around £100 per month. And its clear that she
was borrowing as much as she could in an attempt to cover the hole, making these
repayments was leaving in her finances.
Furthermore, Ms B wasnt making any headway into repaying what she owed. While this was
an open-ended credit facility there was and is still an expectation that the balance would be
repaid within a reasonable period of time whereas, given what Ive seen by her February
statement she was in effect borrowing to repay.
Drafty accepts that it suspended the facility in February 2019 because Ms B didnt make her
repayment as she was scheduled to do. I think, this was a reasonable course of action to
take.
It is reasonable not to allow a customer to drawdown any further funds where a customer is
already struggling to repay what they owe. In March 2019, the facility was reinstated.
However, I dont agree with Draftys assertion that this shows no signs of financial difficulties.
Drafty also says in the FRL that it asked Ms B to reconfirm her income and expenditure I can
see based on the information contained within the final response that she was asked about
this in April 2019. So, one month after the suspension of the facility was lifted.
It isnt particularly clear to me why after having the facility for almost a year and missing a
payment it was reasonable at this point to have just relied on what Ms B had provided about
her financial circumstances. While it wasnt unreasonable to have asked the question, I think
this ought to have at least triggered some further conversations. It isnt clear based on what
Drafty has provided whether this did occur.
I dont think that on its own, this was sufficient to say that Ms B wasnt having financial
difficulties. She had been up to or near her credit limit for the majority of the time shed held
the facility and was making very little headway into what she owed. So, Ms Bs repayment
history contradicted what she had declared and, in these circumstances, I think it would have
been fair and reasonable to have taken further steps  such as carrying out a further income
and expenditure assessment - to ensure that Ms B wasnt experiencing difficulty and that the
facility remained affordable before reactivating it.
Notwithstanding my concerns around the actions Drafty took when it suspended the facility, I
dont think based on the evidence that I have available, that his materially changes the
outcome that Ive reached.
As, Ive said above, Ms B failed to make her February repayment and Drafty
suspended the facility. On 25 March 2019, Ms B made the minimum repayment as required
by Drafty to unblock the facility.
She then made further repayments to the facility in April and May, again these appear tohave been the minimum amount required to service the facility. While, during this time Ms B
didnt take any new drawdowns, she had only repaid Drafty enough to make £83.51 credit
available to her, she still owed over £1,276 of principal by the June statement.
Ms B then made a further payment at the end of June 2019, and on the same day she
borrowed another £50 and she borrowed another £50 on the following day  which put her
within £9.04 of her credit limit.
However, frequently, such as in July, September, October and November 2018 after the
repayment was made Ms B returned with a short space of time (sometimes the following
day) in order to drawdown almost the maximum she could under the facility  in most cases
this was between £20 and £30.
As Ive explained, to me this suggests that Ms B was more likely than not having to come
back to re-borrow to cover the hole left in her finances as a result of her having recently
made a payment. It was therefore no longer sustainable for Drafty to keep lending to Ms B 
and it shouldve known this based on his repayment pattern.
I appreciate Drafty says at times it asked Ms B about her income and expenditure, indeed,
as Ive said above by April 2019 Ms B continued to say there had been no change to her
situation since she took the facility out  around a year beforehand. But this reported no
change isnt consistent with what was happening with the way Ms B used her facility, as
described above.
So, I dont think Drafty met its obligations under the regulations by just accepting the
information in face of the clear evidence it had. Im therefore partly upholding Ms Bs
complaint and Drafty shouldnt have allowed her to take any further funds from 
26 June 2019.
I accept the June 2019 was the first drawdown for a number of months, but as Ive explained
above, there was already a well-established pattern as to how Ms B would likely use the
facility moving forward, and on 26 June 2019 Ms B was again back up to her credit
limit by borrowing a modest amount of £100. Given Ms B was in a position where she hadnt
drawn down further funds for four months, I would have expected her to have made far more
substantial inroads to the capital had she been repaying what she owed within a reasonable
period of time.
By this point, Ms B had had her facility for 14 months and still owed almost the maximum
that she could under it, despite having made 13 monthly repayments. Ms B was in a sense
just servicing the debt and wasnt making any attempt to repay what she owed within a
reasonable period of time. 
So, in this case, I dont think the period of time where Ms B didnt drawdown alters the outcome that 
Im intended to make because there is no evidence that Ms B was repaying the facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
Unlike Drafty, I do think the manner in which Ms B used the facility along with the fact that
she misses one repayment, and continued to declare to it there was no change in her
circumstances ought to have led Drafty to conclude that by 26 June 2019 the facility was
now unsustainable for her.
In these circumstances, I dont think its reasonable for Drafty to conclude that Ms B would
more likely than not have been able to make her payments without borrowing further or
experiencing financial difficulty. Indeed, her repayment record suggested she was only able
to make her payments by borrowing further. And, in these circumstances, Im satisfied that
the further credit provided after June 2019 onwards was unsustainable for Ms B.
Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Ms B.
Response to provisional decision
 Both Drafty and Ms B were asked to respond to the provisional decision as soon as possible, 
but no later than 6 May 2022. 
Ms B acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and she explained she had nothing 
further to add. 
Drafty also responded to the provisional decision and said that it agreed with the findings 
and it offered to pay compensation as outlined within the provisional decision. Drafty 
explained this would result in a total refund of £1,435.48 (this included 8% simple interest, 
less the tax it is required to take off). It also agreed to remove any adverse information from 
Ms Bs credit file that has been reported since 26 June 2019. 
Drafty says, that it will pay (assuming Ms B accepts the final decision) the settlement into her 
bank account ending 1864. Drafty has advised that if Ms B wants the payment into another 
account, she will need to provide further information. But, Ill leave it to her to get in contact 
with Drafty to discuss this further  if appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Ms B and Drafty have accepted the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I 
therefore dont need to depart from the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision and 
I still think Drafty was wrong to have allowed Ms B to drawdown on her facility from 
26 June 2019 for the same reasons that I outlined in the provisional decision.
Ive outlined below what Drafty has already agreed to do to put things right for Ms B.  
 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Drafty should carry out the below:
A. Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 26 June 
2019.
B. Re-work the account and treat all payments Ms B has made towards the account 
since 26 June 2019 as though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C. If at any point Ms B would have been in credit on her account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled is made.
D. remove any negative information about the facility from Ms Bs credit file from 
26 June 2019.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Bs 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Ms B as direct above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman