DRN-4234408
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) failed to give him correct advice when 
making an application for additional borrowing with his mortgage and hes lost out as a 
result.
What happened
Mr P contacted BOI to discuss an application for additional borrowing. He was looking to 
make some changes to his property and considering his options for funding this. 
The advisor Mr P spoke with spent a great deal of time going through a number of options 
including whether there was an option to move from his existing product. Mr P had a number 
of questions and the advisor answered these before making a recommendation. They 
recommended that Mr P apply for additional borrowing of £30,000. They explained the 
application would need to be assessed by BOI underwriters and because Mr P felt the value 
of his home had increased since his original/existing mortgage was taken out and because 
this was more than six months ago, a new valuation would need to be completed with a fee 
of £245 needing to be paid by Mr P.
Once the application was made and assessed, Mr P was told he did not meet BOI lending 
criteria as it didnt deem the additional borrowing affordable. Mr P was given this decision a 
day after the valuation had been completed and he questioned whether the valuation report 
had been provided and considered  he was concerned that if it hadnt been, it may have 
negatively impacted the outcome.
BOIs underwriter spoke with Mr P and explained why the affordability checks had failed and 
Mr P understood this. It was also explained that the valuation was not part of this check as 
this was focused on his income and expenditure. Had this been agreed, the valuation would 
have been looked at to confirm the property provided suitable security. The underwriter said 
he could have requested to pay for the valuation report after the outcome of the affordability 
checks had been provided and she thought it was reasonable that this could have been 
given as an option ahead of the application being made.
Mr P complained to BOI that it didnt explain to him when he made the application that he 
didnt need to pay for the valuation at the outset and that there was an option to delay this 
ahead of the affordability assessment being completed. Because he hadnt been given this 
option, he feels he paid for a service that was null and void.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ps complaint and said she felt BOI did something wrong. She 
accepted the fee was a non-refundable fee applied as part of the application process, but 
she felt it was reasonable, if an option to pay after the affordability checks had been 
completed, that BOI should have explained this to Mr P. When it didnt, Mr P didnt have all 
the information he needed to decide whether to wait to pay for this or not.
BOI disagreed with this assessment. It explained that the valuation fee needs to be paid on 
application and this is a pre-requisite of the application being assessed. It does consider 
requests for this to be paid after the affordability assessment, but this is on a case-by-case 
basis and treated as an exception. It is not something that happens as normal process or 
something it provides advice on as an option.
They said if Mr P had concerns about his affordability and wanted to delay paying for the 
valuation until this was completed, he should have asked this question. When he didnt and 
chose to pay the fee, he accepted this was non-refundable once the valuation inspection had 
been completed and it isnt fair that it repays this. 
Our investigator still felt it was reasonable to expect BOI to have done more. She said if it 
has another option, even if only considered on a case-by-case basis, not explaining this to 
Mr P meant he lost the opportunity to decide what to do. She felt it was reasonable to 
believe that he would have waited to pay this fee and because of this, hes now paid 
something he wouldnt otherwise have paid. 
Because BOI disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
BOI will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I think its fair and reasonable to ask it to 
refund the valuation fee to Mr P.
BOI has explained it isnt its normal process to tell a customer that the application fee 
doesnt need to be paid when the application is made. The illustration provided ahead of the 
application being submitted explains the revaluation fee is paid to the lender on application. 
So I think BOI sets out clearly when this needs to be paid. It also says that once the 
inspection has been carried out, the fee is non-refundable. And it is normal to expect the fee 
to be paid on application and this is supported by the illustration.
But there is another process that BOI operates alongside this. It has said it will consider a 
request for the valuation fee to be paid after the credit checks had been completed. These 
requests are generally made when the applicant has concerns about the application being 
successful and are made by the applicant. 
The question is whether I think it is fair that BOI should have provided Mr P with any 
information in addition to that set out in the illustration about the valuation fee.
During the application call with the advisor, Mr P had a number of questions about the 
process. He explained hed never made an application for additional borrowing before so 
wasnt sure of the steps to take and wanted to understand what was needed. So I think he 
was looking for as much information as possible about what to expect and he questioned 
why a valuation fee was needed as part of the additional borrowing application.
Mr P didnt have any apparent concerns about his affordability but there had been some 
back and forth about his income and actual figures as hed recently changed roles. The 
adviser explained the next steps that Mr P would need to take if he wanted to submit the full 
application and it was for Mr P to complete these and submit it. But they gave no information 
about delaying the valuation fee payment if Mr P had any concerns about being offered the 
loan in the first place. Although BOI say this isnt its process, the fact this can be considered 
as a request indicates it is. With this in mind, I think it should have explained all options 
available to Mr P. If he wasnt told this request would be considered, it isnt reasonable to 
believe he would be aware he could make the request in the first instance.When Mr P spoke with BOIs underwriter after his application was declined, they explained in 
more detail how the application is assessed and how the valuation and affordability are two 
separate considerations. A failure on either can result in the application not being successful. 
They suggested that Mr P could have been told previously that the valuation could be paid 
later, to avoid him incurring this cost if the application wasnt successful. This supports that it 
does have a process in place to consider this being paid after the application has been 
submitted.
Overall, Im not persuaded that BOI provided Mr P with all the relevant information he 
needed to decide whether he wanted to pay the revaluation fee when the application was 
submitted. Or if he wanted to request whether BOI would consider him paying this after the 
affordability check had been completed. BOI has not said it wouldnt have agreed to Mr P 
submitting the application and paying the fee later and because of this, I cant be satisfied he 
hasnt lost out as a result.
Putting things right
To put things right, Bank of Ireland should:
-  Refund Mr P the £245 revaluation fee paid together with 8 % simple interest added 
from the date the payment was made until the date it makes the payment.
- If it decides to deduct tax from the interest payment, it must upon request from Mr P 
provide him with a certificate of any tax paid.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman