DRN-3897809
The complaint
Mr B complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect him from becoming the victim of a scam 
and would like Barclays to refund the money he has lost.
What happened
Mr B was introduced to a website by someone he met on an online dating site. He was 
persuaded that he could make a lot of money by purchasing cryptocurrency and then 
transferring this to the website to trade.
In total, Mr B made payments totalling £40,783.62.
Mr B realised that he had been the victim of a scam when he tried to withdraw his supposed 
profits and was told he needed to pay more money in order to access this.
He complained to Barclays  but it didnt uphold his complaint. So, he brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr B the victim of a scam?
On balance, I think that Mr B was the victim of a scam here. Although he moved his crypto to 
a website which seemed to be a gambling site (which in that case he would have lost his 
money to a high-risk bets and not a scam) I dont believe that the site he moved his money 
to was genuine  and now appears to have disappeared, although a genuine gambling site 
with a very similar name still exists. Mr B was also told he needed to pay more money to 
access his supposed profits.  
Did Mr B authorise the payments?
I need to decide if Mr B authorised the payments that were made to purchase the crypto. In 
line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr B isnt liable for payments he 
didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of 
the account or keep her personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr B authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, I dont think that Mr B authorising the payments is in dispute here. All the 
payments were made using his debit card and Barclays spoke with him on several occasions 
where he confirmed that he was the one making the payments. I understand that Mr B had 
been tricked by the scammer into instructing Barclays to make the payments  but while 
Mr B never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this doesnt change the fact that 
he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr B made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to have done anything 
further until it had been notified that there was a scam.
As Mr B made his payments by debit card, the only recourse for potential recovery of the 
funds would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchants (here the sellers of the 
crypto Mr B purchased). 
However, even if a chargeback was attempted, this would likely not have been successful. 
This is because the sellers of the crypto were legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the 
services which were requested  which was the crypto itself. Therefore, the subsequent loss 
of the crypto to the scammer is a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would 
unlikely have been possible  so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once 
they had been made.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr B made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr B authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.So, Ive considered what this means for the payments Mr B made. 
Mr B made a total of 31 payments to purchase the crypto from several different providers  a 
lot of these payments were of relatively low value, and so I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Barclays to contact him about them before processing the request.
However, Barclays did speak with Mr B on four separate occasions, and Ive listened to 
these calls to see what was said to him.
Some of the calls could have explored the nature of the payments more thoroughly  and I 
do think that Barclays could have done more during these calls. However, in one of the calls 
Mr B had with Barclays, it questioned him about how he came across the investment, and if 
anyone had introduced him to the investment. It also asked him if anyone was helping him at 
all. Barclays also went on to say that it had seen a marked increase in scams involving 
crypto. 
Mr B told Barclays he had decided to invest himself  and that there was no one else 
involved in what he was doing. He also said that he had done his own research and was 
satisfied with what he was doing. But this wasnt true. He had been introduced to the 
investment by someone he met through an online dating app, who also had his passwords 
and access to the site.
Had Mr B divulged this information to Barclays, I think that it would have caused it concern, 
and prompted further questioning  potentially uncovering the scam.
I also note that Mr B made several withdrawals, all of which were honoured until he tried to 
make a larger withdrawal when he uncovered the scam himself (no doubt the scammers 
allowed these withdrawals in order to persuade Mr B to part with more money and legitimise 
the scam). And he said hed done plenty of his own research too and found no negative 
information about the site. He also trusted the people he was dealing with and had no 
reason to suspect the individual he had met online was part of the scam for a long time  
and that he knew people who were receiving large returns from the site. In several of the 
calls Ive listened to, Mr B also attempted to ask Barclays if he should be making smaller 
payments as to not trigger its fraud responses. 
So even if Barclays had given him a more meaningful warning at any point, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B would have made the decision to stop making payments.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr B now finds himself in  he has been 
the victim of a cruel and elaborate scam. However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused by 
the scammers themselves  not Barclays. And I cant ask Barclays to refund this loss when 
Mr B wasnt forthcoming with information and I think that even if Barclays had given him a 
clearer warning he still would have gone ahead. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman