DRN-2278117
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) has incorrectly 
declined a claim on his Breakdown Repair Cover (BRC) policy.
What happened
Mr Z has a BRC policy and on 3 November 2019 Mr Z called for breakdown assistance as 
he began hearing a noise from underneath his car whilst driving. A breakdown agent 
attended the vehicle, carried out some checks and advised that the car needed a further 
inspection at a garage.  The system notes say that the car was safe to drive to a garage and 
that the Mr Z was going to book in as soon as possible.
Acromas sent Mr Z a list of garages but I understand that Mr Z didnt attend at a garage. The 
next contact with Mr Z was on 25 January 2020. Mr Z attended at his garage for an MOT on 
this date. He was advised by the garage that there was an issue with his front suspension. 
But Mr Zs car passed the MOT and he drove home. He then contacted Acromas to make a 
claim for the damage to his front suspension.
However, after sending an agent out to inspect the car, Acromas declined Mr Zs claim. It 
says the issues reported in the January call out were linked to the issues Mr Z had reported 
in November and that Mr Z had travelled a considerable distance in that time. Acromas also 
says the claim didnt fall into its definition of a breakdown as per the terms and conditions of 
the policy. But Mr Z remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed the complaint. The investigator agreed with Mr Z and said that 
there was no evidence to prove the two breakdowns were linked. But the investigator stated 
that the breakdown as reported didnt fit the definition of a breakdown as defined in the 
policy terms and conditions, and that Acromas had correctly declined the claim.
But Mr Z didn't agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The breakdowns
Mr Z reported a breakdown on 3 November 2019. He reported a noise under the front of his 
car. The attending agent says Checked the steering system jacked up front wheels off the 
ground coil spring not broken both front. No wheel bearing and no bolt joints worn retighten 
the wheel nuts ok but clanking noises sometimes. This car needs further check BY garage 
as it is IT safe to drive to garage. BRC GARAGE MEMBER WILL BOOK TO GARAGE 
ASAP.
There was a further call on 6 November 2019. And during this call Mr Z was told that a 
garage needed to diagnose the fault and call Acromas. The file suggests that a list of 
garages would be sent to Mr Z.
On 25 January 2020 Mr Z reported a second breakdown. Mr Zs car had been in a garage 
that day for an MOT. And even though the car passed its MOT the garage advised that the 
front suspension and bottom ball joint needed replacing. Mr Z called initially and was told 
that the policy only covered issues that would stop the car from being driven, and as this 
wasnt the case here, there was no breakdown to claim for.
But Mr Z called again, and a breakdown agent did come and inspect the car. The report says 
Found vehicle makes slight knock noise when parking up, intermittently, suspect wishbone 
ball joints, advised member to take vehicle into garage to have it inspected on a full lift ramp 
and have fault confirmed and repaired under BRC if component is covered. Have wishbone 
arm ball joints checked and repaired at garage.
Acromas says that the two breakdowns are connected. But I cant see any actual evidence 
of this on file. There was no inspection carried out after the first visual inspection on 3 
November 2019. The assumption that both incidents are connected was made during a 
telephone call between Mr Z and Acromas, based on the information Mr Z provided on 25 
January 2020. Im not saying theyre not connected. What Im saying is that theres no 
mechanical evidence available to support a connection between the two incidents, so I cant 
conclude that they are connected.
The policy
However, whether the incidents are connected or not doesnt matter here as I dont think         
Mr Z has made a valid claim under the policy terms and conditions. This policy is a 
breakdown recovery policy. This policy is ancillary to Mr Zs breakdown membership and it 
can only be used if the members car breaks down and it cant be fixed at the roadside. It is 
not a parts replacement policy or warranty.
In the terms and conditions, a breakdown is defined as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, 
commenced.
The key to this definition is that all of the above has to happen before the claim can be 
deemed a breakdown, valid under this policy.
So, lets look at what happened in Mr Zs case. In November he called, and a breakdown 
agent attended. However, no failure was diagnosed. Mr Z was advised to go to a garage to 
get the issue checked. But this never happened. So, the claim submitted in November 2019 
isnt deemed to be a breakdown as set out in the definition above.
In January, following his annual MOT, Mr Z was advised that there was an issue with his 
front suspension, and bottom ball joint/wishbone. The car passed its MOT, but the issue with 
the front suspension and ball joint was advised to Mr Z as something that needed attention. Mr Z did call Acromas, but he then left the garage and drove home, and the inspection took 
place there.
So, a mechanical failure was identified, and it was attended by a breakdown attendant. But 
the nominated car was able to start and continue its journey safely, which it did, and the 
parts did not need to be replaced in order for a journey to be resumed.
But Mr Z doesnt agree. He says he followed the procedure correctly, and the engineer told 
him during the January call out that the car wasnt safe to travel a long distance. He says the 
purpose of the insurance is to make him feel safe, and he says it wasnt safe to travel a long 
distance with his children. Mr Z also says Acromas were quick to link the two incidents, as a 
way out of paying for this repair. He says the only way he could make a claim for this issue 
was to call and request an engineer to attend after the MOT. He says he did this in order to 
follow the procedure as set out in the terms and conditions, and that he was left with no 
other option.
I understand Mr Zs argument. But I revert back to the policy terms and conditions again to 
explain that this policy isnt a parts replacement or warranty policy. This policy is a 
breakdown repair cover policy. It works ancillary to Mr Zs breakdown membership, and it 
can only be used in a very specific situation, and that is if the car breaks down and it cant 
continue on its journey safely, until the part that has failed is diagnosed as failed and needs 
to be replaced. And thats not what happened here. The car had just passed its MOT with an 
advisory from the garage to get the front suspension looked at. Mr Z then proceeded to drive 
from his garage to his home. The front suspension or wishbone did not need immediate 
replacement in order to start, continue or resume a journey safely. And because of this 
Acromas made the correct decision to decline the claim. 
Further to this Im mindful of another term in the policy which says: this policy will not cover 
any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical Failure if the fault has been 
identified to You as part of either regular maintenance, MOT or at the point of another 
repair. If we are to conclude that the incidents in November and January arent linked, along 
with the fact that Mr Z continued to drive after the call out in November, without the need for 
further inspection, it would seem that the first time this issue was brought to Mr Zs attention 
was during the MOT on 25 January 2020. And if this is the case, the claim is excluded under 
this term in the policy as its been identified during the cars annual MOT.
I appreciate Mr Z is going to be disappointed with the outcome in this decision. But this claim 
isnt a valid claim as per the policy terms and conditions. And as such I think Acromas has 
correctly declined this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman