DRN-3771867
The complaint
Mr P complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent to him when it shouldnt have.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Miss B 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Having considered all the information in this case, Im not upholding this complaint. Ive set 
out my reasons below:
It was Mr Ps first loan and this loan repayment represented a small portion of his 
income.
The results of the credit search didnt reveal any concerning details. From what I can 
see Mr P only had one credit account with an outstanding balance which he was up 
to date on repaying. Mr Ps other recorded credit accounts were telecommunication 
providers. He was also up to date on his payments on those accounts.
There was nothing revealed within the checks L2G carried that should have 
prompted it to take it checks further and the outcome of the reasonable checks it 
carried out showed Mr P could afford the loan repayments over the term as he had 
sufficient disposable income. 
L2G in its final response offered to reduce the interest on the outstanding balance by 
40%, Mr P should contact L2G directly to see if the offer is still available should he 
wish to accept it.
I note there is still an outstanding balance on the account and would remind L2G to 
treat Mr P positively and agree a suitable repayment plan should he require 
assistance.
Overall, I think L2G did enough before lending and it wasnt wrong to lend to Mr P 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award 
against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman