DRN-1705680
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance to  
him alongside a store card in 2000. 
I appreciate PPI was sold to Mr S in a clothes store, but AXA is responsible for complaints 
like this. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, Mr 
S disagreed with that view. He said he felt rushed and pressured into buying the PPI. He 
also said he wasnt given clear information about the cover. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As I said above, the PPI was sold in a clothing store. I cant know what was said during that 
transaction. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Mr S 
told us about it. And Ive also considered the credit application form that was completed at 
the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr S would have been told the PPI was optional 
and he didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. I appreciate Mr S said he felt pressured 
and rushed into buying the cover. But he hasnt told us precisely what AXA said or did to 
make him feel that way. And I also have to bear in mind that its difficult to remember 
precisely what happened 20 years ago  which is when this policy was sold. 
Looking at the paperwork, I can see that Mr S did sign to say he wanted a PPI policy. And 
that at the top line of the PPI section of the form, it says to only sign if Mr S wanted a PPI 
policy. Reasonably, I think he would have seen that and I dont think he would have signed 
to agree to PPI if he didnt want the cover. I can see that Mr S refused another financial 
product that was offered at the same time. Overall, I think Mr S probably knew he could 
refuse this PPI if he wanted to.  
I havent seen anything to suggest AXA considered Mr Ss personal circumstances when 
PPI was sold, so I dont think this was an advised sale. Even so, AXA still had to give Mr S 
enough information about the cover so he could decide for himself whether it was a good fit 
for his needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that AXA didnt tell Mr S everything it should have done about the cover. 
For example, I cant see the cost clearly set out on the application form and so its possible 
that the person selling the PPI also didnt make the cost clear. But that doesnt mean I can 
automatically uphold the complaint. I then have to go on and consider whether Mr S would 
have acted differently if AXA had told him everything it should have done. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also considered what Mr S told us about his personal circumstances at 
the time. 
I can see that if he had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of Mr Ss card balance would have 
been repaid for every month he was off sick from work or if he lost his job. It would have paid 
out until the balance was paid off or until Mr S returned to work. 
Mr S told us that he would have received between three months and six months pay from 
work if he was off sick. He also told us that he had some savings and could have relied on 
help from family members if he ran into financial trouble. I think the PPI would have lasted 
for longer than Mr Ss sick pay and savings. And while I appreciate it would have been the 
intention or Mr Ss family members to assist, theres no guarantee that help could be 
available as and when Mr S required it. 
Mr S told us he was in good health when he took the cover out. So I dont think hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about his personal circumstances that would have stopped him from being 
able to make a claim. 
Putting all of that together, I cant say that Mr S would have changed his mind about the PPI 
even if AXA had given him more or better information about the cover. It follows then that I 
cant uphold this complaint. I dont need to tell AXA to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman