DRN-4156089
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC when trying to move 
funds from her Cash ISA to a Fixed Rate ISA. 
What happened
Mrs D contacted Barclays and advised she had an existing Cash ISA and wanted to move 
her savings into a new Fixed Rate ISA. During the call on 21 December 2022 Mrs D 
discussed whether local branches could help her move her savings to a new Fixed Rate ISA. 
Mrs D was advised that Barclays required her to take identification to the branch. Mrs D said 
she would take her bank cards into branch to use as identification. 
Mrs D visited a branch of Barclays on 23 December 2022 and has told us that branch staff 
refused to help with her Fixed Rate ISA application and referred her to the telephones 
available. When Mrs D spoke with another agent, arrangements to open the new ISA were 
discussed. The agent updated some of Mrs Ds details on Barclays systems and said she 
needed to provide some photo identification, like a passport, in branch. Mrs D explained that 
Barclays had already seen her identification and that she wasnt willing to provide it again. 
Mrs D raised a complaint. 
Barclays issued five responses to Mrs Ds complaint. Barclays said that it couldnt simply 
convert Mrs Ds existing Cash ISA to a Fixed Rate ISA and that she would need to complete 
a new application. Barclays explained that Mrs D needed to open a new ISA and that funds 
would be transferred to it. The original Cash ISA would then be closed. Barclays also said 
Mrs D would need to take some photographic identification, like a passport, into branch in 
order to proceed. Barclays said that the manager of the branch Mrs D had attended didnt 
recall her visit. Barclays explained that a marker had been added to Mrs Ds profile and that 
she needed to provide photographic identification to remove it. Barclays agreed that Mrs D 
had been given conflicting information and that the service provided shouldve been better at 
times. Barclays apologised to Mrs D and offered her £75 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ds complaint. They thought Barclays had made 
a fair offer to settle Mrs Ds case and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mrs D asked to 
appeal and said she Barclays staff had advised she could transfer her Cash ISA to the 
Fixed Rate ISA. Mrs D also said her funds remained in the existing Cash ISA with lower 
returns. Mrs D explained that if shed been asked to take photographic identification into 
branch on 21 December 2022 she would have. Mrs D also said she was upset by the 
conflicting information provided by staff at Barclays. As Mrs D asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to the investigator, Mrs D advised that several staff members at Barclays 
confirmed she could transfer her existing Cash ISA into a new Fixed Rate ISA. But Barclays 
says Mrs D will need to complete an application to move her funds the a Fixed Rate ISA. 
Barclays also confirmed Mrs D could bring funds saved in an ISA with another business to 
the new Fixed Rate ISA when opened. Ive listened to the calls available and looked at the 
evidence on file. I appreciate Mrs D feels Barclays has provided conflicting advice and told 
her an application, requiring identification, isnt required. But, I havent been persuaded thats 
the case. 
During the calls I listened to, Barclays explained an application a new ISA was required 
which is why Mrs D was referred to branch. And in all five of its responses to Mrs Ds 
complaint, Barclays confirmed the position is correct. I appreciate that doesnt match Mrs Ds 
recollections. But from the information Ive seen, Barclays has consistently explained what 
Mrs D needs to do to open a new Fixed Rate ISA and transfer her funds to it. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs D but Im satisfied Barclays has explained what she needs to do if she 
wishes to move forward with a Fixed Rate ISA. 
I agree with Mrs D that the agent she spoke with on 21 December 2022 failed to make the 
identification requirements sufficiently clear. The agent explained Mrs D would need to 
supply identification and she responded to say she would take bank cards to branch. I think 
the agent missed an opportunity to specifically confirm the identification requirements when 
speaking with Mrs D on 21 December 2022 and Ive factored this in when deciding how to 
fairly resolve her case. 
Barclays has confirmed that in order to proceed, Mrs D will need to supply photographic 
identification. Again, this is a point Barclays has remained consistent on. Barclays is free to 
decide how it operates, including when to request identification from customers. Barclays is 
allowed to request documents of this nature, even where an applicant is an existing 
customer. So whilst I understand Mrs D may have previously opened accounts without 
providing photographic identification, I havent seen anything that shows Barclays made a 
mistake in this instance. 
Barclays has also explained that there is a marker on Mrs Ds profile that requires a copy of 
photographic identification to be supplied. In line with what Ive said above, businesses can 
ask customers to provide identification during an ongoing banking relationship. It wouldve 
been better if Barclays had clear records that show when and why the marker was applied to 
Mrs Ds profile. But Im satisfied Barclays can reasonably request documents from 
customers and havent found evidence that shows its acted unfairly here or that providing 
further identification would unreasonably inconvenience Mrs D. 
I agree there were service issues. The agents Mrs D spoke with couldve been clearer in 
explaining what was required. And its clear Mrs Ds branch visit didnt go as well as it should 
have. When Barclays responded to Mrs Ds complaint it apologised for the service provided 
and offered £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Having considered everything 
both parties have said and provided, Im satisfied Barclays offer is a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve Mrs Ds complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with 
what I wouldve told Barclays to pay had no offer been made. As Barclays has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs D pointed out her funds in the Cash ISA were receiving 
a lower interest. But Barclays has explained what steps Mrs D needs to take in order to open 
the a new ISA and transfer funds into it. I leave it to Mrs D to decide how she wishes to 
proceed. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman