DRN-4120542
The complaint
Ms J complains about the amount by which AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
reduced her No Claims Bonus (NCB) following a claim on her motor insurance policy. She 
wants her NCB stepped back by two years.
 
What happened
Ms J made a claim on her policy when her car was vandalised. AA recorded this as a fault 
because it couldnt recover its outlay. And it reduced Ms Js NCB from nine or more years to 
four. It said this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. Ms J said if this had 
been brought to her attention at the outset, then she wouldnt have bought the policy. AA 
said it wasnt obliged to tell consumers who hadnt protected their NCB about its step back 
process at the point of sale. And Ms J thought the recording of a fault claim was unfair. She 
thought it should be recorded as unrecoverable loss. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
recording of a fault claim when an insurers losses werent recovered was standard industry 
practice. He thought the reduction made by AA was unusual but that it was sufficiently 
brought to Ms Js attention when she renewed the policy. So he thought AA hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Ms J replied that AA should have told her about the NCB step back process when she 
bought her policy and before she made the claim. Ms J asked for an Ombudsmans review, 
so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms J 
and to AA on 17 April 2023. I summarise my findings:
Our Investigator explained that its standard industry practice to record a claim as fault 
when an insurer cant recover its outlay. Ms J made a claim following vandalism. AA couldnt 
recover its outlay, even though I could see that the alleged vandal was being prosecuted. I 
could see that this was explained on page 17 of her policy booklet. So Im satisfied that the 
claim was correctly recorded as a fault on Ms Js driving history.
I could understand that Ms J felt this was unfair. But its not my role to make 
recommendations for the industry as a whole. My role is to consider whether AA responded 
to Ms Js complaint fairly and reasonably. And I thought it had done so on this point. 
Ms J was also unhappy about the reduction in her NCB. AA said it relied on the policys term 
and condition that stated that when a policyholder has nine or more years of NCB, this will 
be reduced to three years if the NCB is unprotected, and the claim has been settled as 
fault.
I thought this was an unusual term and condition in motor insurance policies. This was 
because most insurers will reduce NCB by two years in the event of a fault claim. I looked at 
examples of other insurers step back procedures. And I could see that in each example, 
where the consumer had the maximum NCB allowed, the step back for one fault claim was 
two years. AAs maximum NCB allowed was nine years. So, to be consistent with industry 
standards, this would be reduced back to seven years in the case of one fault claim.
And so I thought AAs step back process was unusual as it was out of keeping with industry 
standards. And I thought it had a potentially significant impact for consumers. So I would 
expect it to be made clear at the point of sale and to be clearly set out in the policy wording 
so that a consumer could understand the process before they bought the policy and so 
decide whether it suited their needs. 
So I didnt agree with AA when it told Ms J that it didnt need to make consumers aware of 
the step back process at the point of sale unless they bought NCB protection. But from what 
I could see it did make Ms J aware of this process when she bought her policy. 
I looked at the online journey Ms J made when she bought her policy. I could see that she 
bought her policy through an online comparison site. During the application, Ms J was given 
the option of adding NCB protection. The benefits were explained and a table showing the 
step back process was provided. This stated that the step back for a consumer with nine 
years or more NCB would be to three years following one fault claim. So I thought sufficient 
information was provided to Ms J before she bought her policy. 
Ms J went ahead with the purchase and AA sent out her policy documents. I expected AA to 
specify in the policy documents what its maximum NCB allowance was, and what the 
reduction would be in the event of a fault claim. NCB was explained on page 17:
If a claim has been made or arisen under this insurance in any one period of insurance Your 
No Claim Discount will be reduced at the next renewal in accordance with the Insurers 'step 
back' scale applicable at the time of renewal (usually to the equivalent of 0,1 or 2 years) 
subject to any No Claim Discount Protection condition that may apply to this insurance.
So the policy documents didnt specify what the maximum NCB allowance was. And the step 
back process described very sketchily was different to AAs step back process where the 
reduction is to three years for one fault claim. AA in fact reduced Ms Js NCB to four years 
without any explanation. 
So whilst AAs step back process was sufficiently explained in the sales process, I wasnt 
satisfied that it was made sufficiently clear in the policy documents. And I didnt think it was 
reasonable for AA to rely on just the pop up screen on the sales journey to explain the 
process as the consumer wouldnt necessarily retain this detail. 
So I wasnt satisfied that AA provided clear, fair and not misleading documentation about the 
NCB step back process. I thought that if Ms J had been made fully aware of the step back 
process she would have acted differently. I thought she may have considered buying NCB 
protection or bought elsewhere a policy that better suited her needs. 
So I thought it was fair and reasonable for AA to either reduce Ms Js NCB entitlement to 
seven years (in keeping with its maximum of nine years being recognised), or to apply NCB 
protection retrospectively to the policy and charge Ms J for the resulting increase in 
premium. I thought it should reasonably allow Ms J to decide which of the options she 
preferred. Ms J could then ask her current insurer to rerate her policy.
I also thought AA gave Ms J incorrect information about the explanation of NCB step back in 
its sales process. And I thought itd caused her frustration and trouble in getting things put 
right. I thought it should pay her £150 compensation for this, in keeping with our published 
guidance. 
Subject to any further representations from Ms J and AA, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA didnt reply to my provisional decision. Ms J replied saying that she accepted it, but she 
asked for consideration to be given to the premium increase caused by her decreased NCB. 
But, as Ive said above, I think its for Ms J to ask her current insurer to rerate her current 
policy based on her corrected NCB. 
So, Im satisfied that Ive not received any representations to cause me to change my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Ms J £150 compensation for the distress and Inconvenience caused by its unfair 
documentation; and either 
2. Reduce Ms Js NCB entitlement to seven years (in keeping with its maximum of nine 
years being recognised); or, if Ms J prefers 
3. Apply NCB protection retrospectively to the policy and charge Ms J for the resulting 
increase in premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman