DRN-1734541
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr M complains that Mortgage Express unfairly took court action to 
repossess the late Mr Ms property.
What happened
Ms M is the executor of the estate of the late Mr M. He had a mortgage with Mortgage 
Express. When he passed away, Ms M continued to make mortgage payments while the 
grant of probate was sorted out, which was not straightforward. Ms M says she kept 
Mortgage Express up to date with the progress of the grant of probate and was told she 
would be contacted about repaying the mortgage balance once it had been obtained. 
Despite that Mortgage Express took legal action to repossess the mortgaged property.
Ms M considers that Mortgage Express acted unfairly in taking the action it did. She says it 
acted against what it had told her and the relevant rules and law. And Mortgage Express 
didnt follow the pre-action protocol.
Ms M says this matter has caused her a great deal of anxiety and distress  along with the 
huge amount of time she has had to spend dealing with it. She says that Mortgage Expresss 
solicitors didnt tell the court about adjournments, causing her to spend time unnecessarily 
preparing for court hearings. She has claimed £1,866.10 in fees and expenses plus 
compensation for her time which she estimates at over 200 hours.
On review, our investigator said that the eligible complainant in this case under our rules was 
the estate of Mr M. So we cant consider the impact of this matter on Ms M personally or any 
financial loss she has suffered. The investigator thought that Mortgage Expresss offer was 
fair. It said it would:
Refund £2,087.05 of its legal fees that were added to the mortgage balance.
Refund barrister costs of £1,500 with interest at 8% simple per year from 26 June 2018.
Refund solicitor costs of £216 with interest at 8% simple per year from 1 April 2017.
Pay £250 for trouble and upset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms M will be disappointed, but I agree with the investigators interpretation of our 
rules, as set out above. The estate of Mr M is eligible to bring a complaint about this matter 
as Mr M was a customer of Mortgage Express. Ms M does not have a complaint that arises 
out of her relationship as a customer of Mortgage Express  so she isnt eligible to bring a 
complaint to us about this matter in her own right. 
That is not to say that I disagree with the points Ms M has made. Nor do I want to downplay 
the significant impact this matter has had on her. And I appreciate the time she has had to 
spend dealing with this matter, including the complaint. Rather, it is simply that I do not have 
the power under our rules to consider this complaint from Ms M in her personal capacity. So 
I cant award her compensation. Nor can I make an award to the estate to reflect the impact 
on her. 
Under our rules I can only award compensation to an eligible complainant for financial loss, 
pain and suffering, damage to reputation and distress or inconvenience. It isnt in dispute 
that the estate suffered a financial loss. But an estate cant experience pain, suffering, 
distress or inconvenience  and it doesnt have a reputation to damage. So that limits the 
award that I can make to the estate of Mr M.
Mortgage Express did not handle things well. I accept there might be some limitations on 
what Mortgage Express could discuss until Ms M had obtained the grant of probate. But its 
clear it could have done more to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading  as it was obliged to do.
While the estate of Mr M might technically have been in breach of the mortgage terms and 
conditions as the mortgage was not repaid when Mr M died (I accept that Ms M was not 
aware of this), Mortgage Express should have understood that it wasnt fair for it to take the 
action it did here, bearing in mind what it knew (or ought reasonably to have known had it 
acted fairly and reasonably) about the situation. 
In the circumstances it was entirely premature and unnecessary to begin legal action when it 
did. It ought to have communicated with Ms M once it received the grant of probate. Its 
failure to clarify the situation with Ms M led to Mortgage Express starting legal action. But its 
initial mistake was compounded by it not following the correct procedure, including not 
sending a letter before action before it started legal action. That meant that Ms M was 
denied the opportunity to question the action Mortgage Express was taking. There were a 
number of other points when Mortgage Expresss communication and administration was 
poor. This was unfair, bearing in mind the consequences and increased costs to the estate 
of its poor handling of this matter.
Once the legal action had started, there were a number of other errors by Mortgage Express 
and the solicitors acting on its behalf. That included the correct documentation not being 
sent to Ms M, not complying with the pre-action protocol for mortgages and court hearings 
going ahead when she was told they had been (and should have been) adjourned. Again, 
this was all entirely avoidable and unnecessary.
I note Ms Ms point about the length of time that Mortgage Express took to deal with the 
estates complaint. But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and is not something I 
can therefore consider. 
After considering the circumstances and everything that Ms M has said and provided, I 
consider that Mortgage Express did not treat the estate fairly or reasonably over a significant 
period. That led to it taking legal action, including court hearings that were unnecessary.Putting things right
Where a business has acted unfairly, I look to put the affected party back in the position they 
would have been in had they been treated fairly in the first place. If Mortgage Express had 
acted fairly Ms M would not have had to appoint a barrister or solicitor to act for the estate. 
So it is fair that those costs are refunded with interest. The interest should be paid until date 
of settlement, if Ms M accepts the decision on behalf of the estate 
We dont have sufficient evidence to show that the estate had to directly pay the accountant 
fees that Ms M is claiming. So I cant tell Mortgage Express to pay that amount.
Ms M has also claimed for travel and parking costs of £60.10. I accept that there are likely to 
have been other incidental expenses that she could have claimed from the estate that would 
have been unnecessary had Mortgage Express acted fairly. £250 is a fair amount to reflect 
any of those expenses.
I do not doubt anything that Ms M has said about how much time she spent dealing with 
everything that was as a result of the way Mortgage Express dealt with Mr Ms mortgage. 
Nor do I doubt the very significant impact on Ms M personally at what was already a very 
difficult and sad time for her. But for the reasons already explained I dont have the power to 
tell Mortgage Express to compensate Ms M for the time she has spent dealing with this 
matter or the anxiety and stress this matter has caused to her  only to the estate. I know 
she feels that the estate and her actions are indistinguishable  but for our purposes they 
are and that limits what I can do.   
I understand Ms Ms wish for there to be consequences for Mortgage Express as a result of 
its failings. But I do not have the power to punish Mortgage Express for what happened or to 
tell it to pay a penalty. As we havent considered a complaint from Ms M in her personal 
capacity, she is free to take other action against Mortgage Express if she wishes, but that 
isnt something we could consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mortgage Express should:
 Refund £2,087.05 of its legal fees that were added to the mortgage balance.
 Refund barrister costs of £1,500 with interest at 8% simple per year from 26 June 2018.
 Refund solicitor costs of £216 with interest at 8% simple per year from 1 April 2017.
 Pay £250 for any incidental costs.
Interest should be paid until date of settlement. If Mortgage Express considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M on behalf of 
the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman