DRN-4215362
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly stopped a cheque made out from his account 
without notifying him.
What happened
Mr L has a business current account with Lloyds. In March 2023, he wrote a cheque made 
out to himself and his wife for £20,000 to deposit into a building society account. 
When Mr L checked his business current account online, he noticed that the £20,000 
payment had been returned to his account. Mr L was unhappy that he didnt receive any 
notice of this from Lloyds. 
Mr L says that by the time he found out that Lloyds had bounced the cheque, it was no 
longer possible to benefit from the special rate offered by the building society. Mr L says he 
has lost out on almost £1,000 in interest.
Lloyds says that it returned the cheque as unpaid because the signature didnt match the 
sample it held on file. Lloyds says that it tried to contact Mr L about the cheque before 
sending him a letter to explain what had happened.
Mr L says the signature held by Lloyds is from 12 years ago so its unsurprising that it 
doesnt match exactly. Mr L says that hes used the same signature for years without any 
issue.
Before we became involved, Lloyds paid Mr L £100 to apologise for any failure in service 
when speaking to Mr L and for transferring funds to the wrong account.
Mr L says that a member of staff at Lloyds thought there had been a lack of common sense 
over the cheque. Mr L points out that the cheque was made out to himself and his wife rather 
than a third party, so the risk was less. He says the whole problem could have been avoided 
if Lloyds had called him or sent a text.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint. He said Lloyds acknowledged that 
the service Mr L received wasnt up to its usual standards but thought the £100 
compensation it paid to apologise was fair. Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do 
more to put things right as the signature on the cheque differed enough from the signature it 
held on file.
Mr L is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says Lloyds paid £100 for a different 
mistake to the one involving the bounced cheque. Mr L thinks Lloyds should compensate hm 
for the stress and lost interest. Mr L is frustrated with what he sees to be a lack of common 
sense shown by Lloyds.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr L has lost out on the chance to earn interest after his cheque was 
returned as unpaid. But I dont find that this was due to a mistake made by Lloyds. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds followed its cheque referral process by calling Mr L to ask whether to 
pay the cheque. As Mr L didnt answer the call, Lloyds sent him a letter and returned the 
cheque as unpaid. Again, this was in line with its usual process. Although Mr L says he 
either didnt take or continue with the call because his phone indicated that it may be a scam 
call, I dont think this was Lloyds fault. 
Given the amount of the cheque and as the signature didnt match the one it held on file for 
Mr L, I dont consider Lloyds acted unreasonably when it returned the cheque as unpaid 
after it failed to speak with Mr L. It follows that I dont require Lloyds to compensate Mr L for 
any interest that he may have lost out on because of missing the investment deadline. 
As the investigator told Mr L, Lloyds treated his concerns about the bounced cheque and 
incorrectly transferred funds together and paid him £100 to apologise over any failure in 
service. I think this was fair. 
As I dont find that Lloyds is at fault for not honouring the cheque, it follows that I dont 
require it to pay additional compensation. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr 
L.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman