DRN-2030377
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a whole of life policy to her.
Ms H is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but in the decision Ill mainly 
refer to Ms H. 
What happened
In 2012 when she was 55 Ms H took out a life assurance policy (which is provided by a 
company Ill call business A) through a Barclays branch. This type of policy (often marketed 
as an Over-50s Plan) is designed to provide a lump sum on death often used for funeral 
costs. Ms Hs policy had a term of 20 years, a sum assured of £2,594, with a monthly 
premium of £10. Over the years Ms H has paid in around £590. But if such a policy is 
cancelled the premiums already paid arent refunded, and it has no cash-in value. 
Ms H is now in poor health and has been advised to retire on medical grounds, so is 
assessing her finances. She doesnt think she needed this policy, so she asked Barclays to 
refund the premiums back to her plus interest. Barclays refused saying although the product 
would have been discussed with Ms H during her visit to the branch, it hadnt advised her to 
take it. The policy documents sent to her by business A in September 2012, included her 
right to cancel within 30-days if on reflection she decided she didnt want it. 
Ms H recalled she was sold the policy by Barclays, so through her CMC she complained to 
this service. They said Barclays had a duty to assess whether the policy was suitable for 
Ms Hs circumstances and to recommend alternatives to her. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She hadnt seen any evidence Barclays had 
recommended the policy to Ms H and agreed it had been on an execution only basis. No 
notes were taken of the meeting in the branch so she couldnt say what discussion had 
taken place. But Barclays was simply obliged to provide enough factual information to Ms H 
so she could decide for herself if she needed the policy. And she could have cancelled it if 
she didnt want it.
The CMC said as Ms H had only been 55 at the time she had no genuine need to cover 
funeral expenses. They said this hadnt been an execution-only transaction as defined by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And even if Ms H had wanted to make provision for 
her funeral costs, a simple savings account or cash ISA would have been better. She didnt 
need a relatively costly and complex Whole of Life policy. 
Our investigator considered the CMCs comments, but didnt change her mind. She 
accepted Ms H had been introduced to the idea of the policy through Barclays, but she didnt 
think that meant shed been advised to take it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Let me explain why.
There are no notes or records of Ms Hs visit to the branch in 2012 so we dont know why 
she was there or how the discussion about the policy arose. She might have asked a 
specific question about how she could protect her family from funeral expenses, or a 
member of staff could have mentioned it to her during a discussion about something else. 
But I think branch staff generally arent qualified to give financial advice. So if Ms H had 
needed financial advice or wanted a product which could only be sold on an advised basis I 
think shed have been referred to someone suitably qualified. And had that happened its 
likely thered be a record of the information captured about Ms Hs finances and 
circumstances. But the only evidence available is the policy documents which were sent to 
her by business A which provided insurance products to Barclays customers. So Im not 
persuaded Barclays advised Mrs H to take out the policy. I think its more likely the Barclays 
staff member gave Ms H a leaflet or drew her attention to the products on offer through 
business A and talked to her about what they were for. But it would have been Ms Hs 
decision whether she wanted to go ahead with an application. 
Ive looked at the pack business A sent Ms H dated 24 September 2012, which she hasnt 
denied receiving. Its headed Over 50s Life Assurance and thanks Mrs H for choosing 
Barclays. The contents of the pack are listed as the policy schedule which gives details of 
the cover, the policy terms and conditions, the key features document, a personal illustration 
and a notice of cancellation plus a folder to keep everything in.
Under the bold heading What you need to do the first of two bullet points tells Ms H to 
check everything carefully and if anythings wrong to call a customer services number. If 
shes happy, it tells her to keep the pack in a safe place (presumably so if the worst happens 
her family could find it easily). And the second bullet point says that if she no longer wants 
this cover to complete and return the Notice of Cancellation within 30 days or call the same 
customer services number. 
So I think Ms H would have known she could easily cancel the policy if she decided she 
didnt need it. She had a month to do so which gave her time to read everything carefully, 
think it over and discuss it with her family or someone else if she wanted to. And if she 
wasnt sure, she could have phoned customer services with any questions she had. 
The schedule sets out the sum assured, monthly premium and term. The Key Features 
document has a framed paragraph which explains the Financial Services Authority (the 
industry regulator at the time, its now the FCA) required business A to provide this 
important information to help you decide whether our cover is right for you. I think this 
makes clear that it was business A not Barclays which was responsible for providing the 
information to Ms H so she could make an informed choice.
This decision is about Barclays not business A so I cant comment on their actions. But its 
helpful to show what other information was given to Ms H at the time. The key features 
document shows that if Ms H makes the premium payments for the full 20 years shell have 
paid in £2,400 but the sum assured (how much would be paid out) is £2,954. 
Under the section Is it right for me? it says its for people aged between 50-80 who want 
life cover .. so youve got peace of mind that your loved ones will get a guaranteed cash 
lump sum when you die. Its not right if you want to be able to stop your policy and get your 
money back.Finally the illustration explains this policy is designed to pay a lump sum on death. The 
CMC says a savings account or ISA would have been a better way for Ms H to save for her 
funeral. As the policy only pays out on her death, Ms H couldnt access the money herself 
once it was paid in. But it also gave her certainty about how much would be paid out if she 
died. After 12 months of premiums (so only £120) the policy would pay the whole sum 
assured, (within 12 months if death resulted from an accident). Whereas a savings account 
or ISA would only yield the balance plus any interest, which may not be sufficient for a 
funeral. I cant be sure Ms H thought about this at the time, but Im satisfied she was given 
enough information so she could. And the illustration has a final section with the large bold 
heading Important note - your right to change your mind. It suggests Ms H should ask 
herself if shed received all the information she wanted to understand the policy. And if not, 
to phone customer services as the 30-day cancellation period cant be extended. 
The CMC refers to the rules around the sale of insurance on a non-advised basis (quoting 
ICOBS 5.2.4) which suggests the business must set out a statement of the consumers 
demands and needs. But this rule goes on to say that it is acceptable to provide the 
statement within the product documentation for anyone for whose demands and needs the 
contract [of insurance] is consistent. I think the key features information which Ms H was 
sent met this requirement, as they set out what the policy is designed to do and what need 
(that is cover for funeral costs) its designed to meet. Cover wasnt personalised as Ms H 
didnt have to answer questions about her health or lifestyle, so it met the needs of anyone 
aged over 50 who wanted to save for their funeral costs. 
I understand Ms Hs concern about the impact of her health on her financial situation. But 
Ive seen nothing which shows the policy was recommended to her by Barclays. In fact the 
documentation shows responsibility to provide the information to enable Ms H to make her 
decision fell to business A.  And Ms H chose not to cancel the policy when she had the 
opportunity. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman