DRN-3321767
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to inform him that the term 
assurance policy it recommended was optional.
What happened
In 2012 Mr C met with an HSBC adviser regarding the level of protection required to cover 
his mortgage.
A Life Choices policy was recommended which provided income protection and critical 
illness benefit for the term of the lending. Mr C says he was not told at the time that the 
policy was optional, or that he could look elsewhere for alternative cover.
Mr C recently complained, as hed spoken to an independent financial advisor who told him 
the policy wasnt compulsory. Mr C felt hed prioritised the policy payments through years of 
financial difficulties and recent risks of redundancy because hed thought them compulsory. 
Mr C explained hed never have taken the policy out if hed been made aware it was 
optional.
Mr C also highlighted a conversation he had in branch with HSBC in 2017. Whilst he was 
unable to provide any further evidence of the discussions that took place, he said hed left 
the branch with an understanding that the policy was compulsory and linked to his mortgage. 
HSBC disagreed, so the complaint was referred to our service.
Our Investigator found that the policy was a suitable recommendation and that the optional 
nature was made clear. They didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that any 
discussion which took place in 2017 had suggested the policy was compulsory.
Mr C accepted the policy wasnt necessarily unsuitable but said this wasnt the focus of his 
complaint. He felt the optional nature of the policy had not been made clear by HSBC, and at 
the very least his premiums should be refunded from the point he had been led to believe it 
was compulsory after the conversation had in 2017. He explained his dyslexia meant he 
relied primarily on the verbal information he received from HSBC. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator has explained why they feel the policy was suitable, and in response Mr C 
has said hes not disputing whether the policy was suitable at the time it was sold. Instead 
hes concerned about the optional nature of the policy being made clear and the 
conversation had with staff in 2017. I agree with our Investigator - there was a clear need for 
protection which had the primary purpose of covering Mr Cs mortgage, and Im satisfied the 
advice was suitable in the circumstances. So, I wont go over that aspect of the complaint 
again in my decision.
The key consideration is whether HSBC did enough to effectively communicate that the 
policy was optional at the outset, and whether the conversation had in 2017 reinforced an 
unfair impression that the policy could not be cancelled.
Mr C has said he only agreed to take out the policy because he felt it was compulsory. I 
recognise Mr Cs recollections about both the time of sale, and the conversation had in 2017, 
but I must weigh his recollections against the consideration of any documentary evidence 
available and decide what is most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied 
that there is enough evidence to persuade me that, more likely than not, Mr C was told or led 
to believe that the policy was compulsory.
This is in part because I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was a compulsory part 
of an application for his mortgage. Section 9 of Mr Cs mortgage offer shows there was no 
requirement to obtain any insurance with HSBC. It states that Mr C is not required to take 
out any insurance through HSBC. The only type of insurance that is listed as compulsory, 
but that still did not have to be taken with HSBC, is building insurance.
The correspondence containing Mr Cs policy schedule sent on 20 March 2012 also 
reiterated that the policy could be cancelled within 30 days. Whilst I appreciate that I cant 
say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of sale, all documentation 
available explains how the policy was not a requirement of the lending.
Mr C has explained that his dyslexia meant he relied primarily on what HSBC has 
communicated to him verbally. This is understandable, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr C made HSBC aware in 2012 or after that it should adapt how it 
communicates with him. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to disregard the documentary evidence 
that shows HSBC informed Mr C the policy was optional.
Regarding the conversation had in branch in 2017, there is very little information available 
other than Mr Cs recollections. These recollections do not appear to confirm that HSBC said 
the policy was compulsory  only that it had stated the policy and mortgage would continue 
unchanged once his mortgage moved to a variable rate. I cant be certain what was said at 
the time, and I must balance this against the fact that all documentary evidence prior to this 
conversation reinforced the fact that the policy was optional. 
Im satisfied the documentation is the most reliable representation of what happened 
available to me. So, I cant reasonably conclude that HSBC misled Mr C about the optional 
nature of his policy as the balance of evidence doesnt support this. Im satisfied that Mr C 
was given a choice about whether to take out the policy, and that the optional nature of the 
policy was made clear.
As I think HSBC acted correctly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do 
anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman