DRN-2348191
The complaint
Mr C complains that AWP P&C SA turned down his travel insurance claim for curtailment.
What happened
Mr C and his family were on holiday when his daughter fell ill. He made the decision to 
return to the UK to seek medical treatment for his daughter, and submitted a claim for 
curtailment to AWP.
AWP turned down the claim. It said Mr C ought to have called its emergency medical 
assistance service and, if he had done, it would have advised him to arrange for his 
daughter to seek medical treatment abroad. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr Cs daughter 
could have received the same medical treatment abroad that shed received in the UK, and 
so it wasnt medically necessary for them to return to the UK when they did. Based on the 
treatment Mr Cs daughter received in the UK, he thought that if this had taken place 
abroad, they would have been able to return on their original flights.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following under the curtailment section:
If you think you may have to cut your journey short (curtail) we must be told immediately 
 see under the heading 24-hour emergency medical assistancefor more information.
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in your summary of cover in total (including 
excursions), for your part of unused personal accommodation, transport charges and other 
travel expenses which have been paid or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be 
recovered from anywhere else. We will provide this cover in the following necessary and 
unavoidable circumstances:
 
Curtailme
nt
You cut your journey short (curtail) after it has begun because ofthe following:

You are injured or ill and are in hospital for the rest of your journey.
It then says:
We will calculate curtailment claims from the date it is necessary for you to return to your 
home country or the date you are hospitalised as an in-patient, for the rest of your 
journeyIf you need to be repatriated, we will not refund the cost of your unused return 
travel tickets. We will put the value of these tickets towards the extra transport costs we 
have to pay.
Under the section What you are not covered for the policy says:
Under Curtailment
Cutting short your journey unless we have agreed.
Any costs when you do not get a medical certificate (from the doctor who treated you in 
the place where you were staying) which says it was necessary for you to come home 
because of death, injury or illness. Our medical advisers must have agreed with the 
reason and that you were fit to travel.
The policy also includes a section on emergency medical assistance. This says:
Please tell us immediately about any serious illness, injury or accident abroad where 
you have to go into hospital or you may have to return home earlybecause of any 
illness or injury.
The policy also provides a 24-hour emergency medical assistance contact number.
Before Mr C and his family went on holiday, Mr Cs daughter had been hospitalised in the 
UK due to gastroenteritis and dehydration. She then recovered and was found fit to travel, 
and so the family travelled abroad as planned. Her symptoms then reoccurred whilst on 
holiday. Mr C didnt take his daughter to see a doctor abroad, and instead made the 
decision to return back to the UK, so she could be admitted to the hospital she was seen in 
previously.
Under the policy terms, theres no cover for curtailment as Mr C didnt get AWPs 
agreement to cut short the holiday. His daughter didnt see a doctor abroad and so Mr C 
also didnt get a medical certificate from a doctor who treated her where they were staying, 
saying it was necessary for his daughter to return home because of illness.
AWP says that if Mr C had asked its medical assistance team for help, they would have 
advised him to seek treatment for his daughter abroad. And that repatriation would only 
have been considered if there had been complications or if they were in a country with a 
lower standard of hospital care than the country they were in. AWP also makes the point, 
which I think is reasonable, that Mr Cs daughter posed a high risk of infection for other 
passengers at the time given her symptoms and so its unlikely she could have obtained a 
fit-to-fly certificate.
Mr C says he did try and call AWP, but wasnt able to get through until he was at the 
airport. Ive therefore considered this point.
Mr C booked the return flights on 9 August and confirmation was sent by the airline at 
5.41am. Hes also provided a copy of his mobile call history that day. This shows that he 
called two different numbers four times (all the calls took place after hed booked the 
return flights). I cant see what those phone numbers were.
Mr C has explained there was a technical problem and the calls didnt connect. Thats 
unfortunate, but I dont know if this was on AWPs side or a problem with Mr Cs phone. I dont know if Mr C attempted to call using a different phone.
I understand Mr C did manage to get through to the medical assistance number when he 
was at the airport. I see that on 9 August 2019, Mr C emailed the company through which 
he had taken out the policy to say that the online claims form and phone numbers werent 
working, and he wasnt able to register a claim. He explained that hed spoken briefly to 
their emergency services number and informed them of the decision to curtail the holiday.
Weve tried to obtain a recording of the call between Mr C and the emergency assistance 
team, but AWP hasnt been able to locate it. However, given that Mr Cs email of 9 
August 2019 referred to him having spoken to the emergency medical team, Im sure 
that he did.
Mr C says that he told the emergency assistance team that he and his family were 
planning to travel back to the UK, and he was advised that they specialised in overseas 
medical assistance and were unfamiliar with UK healthcare. Mr C argues that the 
emergency assistance team therefore knew of his intention to curtail the holiday, and 
didnt advise him not to do so.
As I havent been able to listen to the call, I dont know what was discussed. Ive therefore 
thought about what Mr C would have done, if he had been advised not to curtail the 
holiday.
Mr C explains that when his daughter became ill, he and his wife decided she needed 
urgent medical care. And because they were concerned their daughter may not be able to 
cope with foreign bodies in unfamiliar surroundings, they decided to return to the UK.
Based on Mr Cs explanation about why he didnt seek medical treatment in the country 
they were in, and taking into account that he had booked return flights to the UK and was 
already at the airport when he spoke with the emergency assistance team - I agree with 
our investigator that even if the emergency assistance team had advised Mr C not to curtail 
the holiday, I think its unlikely that he would have done so.
I can appreciate that Mr C and his wife took the action they thought was appropriate at the 
time. Their daughter was ill and understandably they were concerned for her well-being 
and they thought the best course of action was for her to have medical care in the UK. 
That of course was their decision. However, that doesnt mean that AWP needs to accept 
the claim. As Ive said, the policy terms werent met for a curtailment claim to be paid.
AWP has confirmed that if Mr C had sought advice from its emergency assistance team, 
it wouldnt have arranged for Mr Cs daughter to be repatriated back to the UK. Instead, it 
would have advised Mr C to arrange for his daughter to receive medical treatment in the 
country they were in.
Although Mr C did call the emergency assistance team, I dont know if he gave them the 
opportunity to offer him advice about what to do. Though as Ive said, if the emergency 
assistance team had advised him not to curtail the holiday, I think its unlikely he would 
have done so.
Mr Cs daughter went to A&E on their return to the UK. She was given anti-sickness 
medication and was discharged the same day. If they had sought medical treatment in 
the country they were in rather than the UK, that means they would have been able to 
return home on their original return flights.
I therefore dont require AWP to pay the claim.After Mr C submitted his claim, AWP initially declined it because it said his daughters 
condition was pre-existing and therefore not covered. It later accepted that was incorrect 
and apologised for the mistake. I think that was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman