DRN-3375231
The complaint
Miss W complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) valuation 
of her car following a claim under her car insurance. 
What happened
Miss Ws car was declared a write-off following an incident in which the third party was at 
fault. Miss W says Advantage gave her a valuation of £5,295 for her car which they 
increased to £6,500 after Miss W declined. Miss W then sent Advantage details of a car 
which was similar in terms of make, model, age and mileage which was advertised for 
£8,995. Miss W says Advantage maintained their valuation of £6,500 was fair, so Miss W 
complained to Advantage. 
Advantage responded and explained when a car is written-off they will pay the market value 
of the car at the time of the incident, less any deductions, and they dont cover for a like for 
like basis. They said they use two motor trade guides to calculate valuations, Glasss and 
CAPs. They said they arent valuing Miss Ws car on auction prices but instead the guide 
prices are based on actual sales transactions. They said the average valuation was £6,518 
but because there was some pre-accident damage, they deducted £60 from this sum. They 
said this arrived at an average valuation of £6,458 - so their valuation of £6,500 was fair.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss W. He thought Advantage hadnt acted unfairly in 
their valuation. Miss W disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Miss Ws car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, under the heading How your claims are settled, if Miss Ws car is 
damaged, Advantage will pay the market value of her car immediately before the loss. 
Market value is defined as: 
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of a similar make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. 
Your insurer may use publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value 
and will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car 
and the circumstances in which you bought it.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.  
The dispute here relates to the valuation, so the next point Ive considered is whether 
Advantage acted fairly when carrying out their valuation.  
Miss W is unhappy with Advantages valuation of her car as she thinks its worth more and 
has provided adverts for similar cars valued higher. Ive seen that Advantage reached their 
figure by using industry recognised tools to find out the market value of the car. They 
obtained valuations from two motor-trade guides  this being Glasss valuation of £7,270 and 
CAPs valuation of £5,766. Advantage then used the average of the valuations to arrive at 
their figure of £6,500. I can see that this took into account the make, model, age, mileage 
and specification of Miss Ws car. 
I can see our investigator looked at three motor guides to get their valuations for Miss Ws 
car at the time of the incident. I can see this also took into account the make, model, age, 
mileage and specification. Using CAP the market value given was £5,925, Glasss gave a 
figure of £7,270 and Cazana was £6,538. So, the average of these three valuations is 
£6,578  meaning Miss W received a settlement figure well within the range of valuations.  
The valuation Advantage obtained from Glasss is for the same figure obtained by our 
investigator. But, its clear theres a difference between the valuation Advantage obtained 
from CAPs and what our investigator obtained. Im aware that CAP, Glasss and Cazana 
make updates to their valuation algorithms, which can have an impact on the valuation of a 
vehicle if completed at different times. I can see theres a four-month period between 
Advantage carrying out their valuation check and our service carrying out the check using 
the same motor trade guide. So, I dont think its unreasonable for there to be a difference  
which in this case is £160 when using the CAPs guide. The important point here is that 
Advantage have provided evidence of their initial valuation  which was checked the same 
month of the incident. So, I cant say theres been an error by Advantage if the guide values 
have changed. 
Taking this all into account, I cant say Advantage have acted unreasonably. The terms and 
conditions set out how Advantage will settle a claim and the process they use to arrive at a 
market value. The guides they have used refer to advertised and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as the mileage. Their valuation report shows they have 
factored in all material details relating to Miss Ws car. And, in line with the terms and 
conditions, their valuation report shows theyve considered the market value immediately 
before the loss. On this basis, I cant say Advantage have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
arriving at their valuation.     
I can see Miss W has provided a screenshot from the website of a car trading platform which 
shows a similar car for £8,995 and another for £10,058. Miss W says Advantages valuation 
doesnt take account of the recent increase in value of used cars as a result of new car 
production being delayed  she says she cant therefore find a like for like car for £6,500. 
We usually place less weight on advertisements as they contain asking prices that are often 
negotiated downwards. Nevertheless, Ive looked at the examples Miss W has sent us. I am 
sorry to disappoint Miss W but they arent enough to persuade me that the trade guides are 
unreliable for a car like Miss Ws. 
 
I wish to reassure Miss W I have taken into account her points, but this doesnt persuade me 
that Advantage have acted unfairly. Its not the role of this service to put an exact value on a 
car. When looking into these types of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. Its our role to 
make sure Advantage is giving Miss W a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. 
And based on the information provided about Miss Ws car and using the trade guides, I 
think £6,500 is a fair price. I appreciate the arguments Miss W has made. But the policy isnt 
in place to pay the same price seen on an advertisement. Its in place to pay a market value 
as defined in the policy. 
I note Miss W makes reference to a decision on our website which she says shares 
similarities with her own case. I can see that decision on our website relates to a complaint 
where our service felt it was fair for the insurer to look beyond a trade guide and base their 
settlement on an online valuation the insured had received. I do take on board Miss Ws 
points, but I dont agree the facts in this case are similar. The complaint on our website 
relates to a vehicle which was a classic model and, because of its age, the insurer was only 
able to obtain a valuation from one trade guide. And, our website also mentions why that one 
trade guide valuation wasnt reliable. I cant see these factors apply here and, as mentioned 
above, I havent seen any information to suggest the trade guides are unreliable here.   
I can see Miss W refers to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and also feels there has been a 
breach of contract by Advantage due to the under valuation of her car. I have carefully 
considered Miss Ws points but the terms and conditions set out the agreement between 
Miss W and Advantage  and for the reasons Ive set out, I think Advantage have acted in 
line with the terms and conditions. 
 
I appreciate Miss Ws concern with the amount she was offered, and that she feels it falls 
short of allowing her to buy a like for like car in similar condition. And I understand this 
situation is more frustrating considering it arises out of an incident which wasnt Miss Ws 
fault. However, I cant say that the offer Advantage made is unreasonable, so Im not 
directing them to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman