DRN-3082000
The complaint
Mr L complains that Towergate Financial (East) Limited (trading at the time as M2 Financial) 
failed to treat him fairly when it provided advice about the transfer of his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS). Mr L says if he had been advised correctly about the benefits, he 
was giving up he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer. 
What happened
Mr L was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). The OPS wrote to Mr L to 
suggest that he might consider transferring his pension benefits from the OPS to a private 
pension. At that time the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of his pension benefits 
was valued at £9,102. But the OPS offered to enhance that CETV by the payment of an 
additional sum of £13,012.  It offered to pay the enhancement to Mr L as a cash lump sum 
when the transfer was completed. 
On 31 October 2007, Mr L signed a response card to say he agreed for Towergate to 
contact him and provide advice about the proposal hed received. Towergate undertook 
some analysis of the proposal Mr L had received from the OPS. It also reviewed the 
proposal in line with Mr Ls stated objectives which were:
1) A preferred retirement age of 60
2) An attitude to investment risk of 6 out of 10
3) Three main priorities stated as a) Provision for a spouses and dependents pension b) the 
security of the pension fund c) to increase the pension.
Towergate says it carried out two meetings with Mr L, on 14 November 2007 and 5 
December 2007. After each meeting it sent Mr L a suitability letter detailing the advice given 
and its recommendations. Based on all the information given it did not recommend Mr L 
transfer his pension away from the OPS. It provided signed declarations and an email from 
Mr L which state Mr L understood he was acting against advice, but he wanted to proceed 
with the transfer and take the enhanced lump sum offered by his OPS.
Following this confirmation from Mr L of his wishes, it arranged for the OPS to transfer Mr Ls 
pension benefits to a personal pension and for the enhancement amount to be paid to Mr L 
as a lump sum on 5 December 2007.
Mr L says he only recalls one, very rushed meeting lasting around 15 minutes. He has no 
recollection of the signed declaration and the email and says his signature may have been 
forged. He does not accept he was advised not to transfer or of the benefits he was giving 
up.
In May 2020, Towergate agreed with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, that it 
would review the advice it had provided to a number of clients in relation to transfers from 
the OPS. Mr L was offered, and accepted, a review of the advice hed received. Although 
Towergate identified some inaccuracies in its calculations from the time, it didnt think those 
would have led Mr W to reach a different conclusion about becoming an insistent client. So, 
the review didnt suggest Towergate needed to do anything further. 
Mr L was very unhappy with the outcome of the review  he was aware of other former 
employees that he said had received similar advice from Towergate and had been 
compensated as a result of the review. His dissatisfaction with the outcome of the review 
was treated as a complaint.
On 23 July 2020, Towergate issues its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It 
said he was correctly advised not to transfer away from his OPS, and he was fully aware he 
was acting against advice when he did so.
Mr L disagreed and brought his complaint to this service.
Towergate objected to this service looking into Mr Ls complaint. It said Mr L ought 
reasonably to have been aware he had cause to complain more than 3 years before he did. 
On 18 December 2020, the investigator issued a view explaining that he thought Mr Ls 
complaint was one this service could consider.
Towergate objected and so Mr Ls complaint was passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. But, in May 2021 Towergate withdrew its objection and the investigator went onto 
to consider the merits of the complaint.
The investigator went onto assess whether Towergate had treated Mr L fairly, given him 
suitable advice and if in treating Mr L as an insistent customer it had followed the process 
correctly. He said:
The suitability letter dated 27 November 2007 and the accompanying letter dated 29 
November 2007 made it very clear Towergate did not recommend Mr L transfer his 
benefits out of the OPS
Mr Ls desire for a spouse and dependent benefit pension was a key reason not to 
transfer
The second suitability letter dated 3 December 2007, reiterated the early advice, and 
said as Mr L had chosen to proceed with the transfer he was acting against the 
advice given.
The signed declarations and emails were further evidence Mr L was aware in 
transferring his pension away from the OPS he was acting against advice.
He appreciated with hindsight Mr L felt the enhancement offer lured him to transfer 
his benefits, but he pointed out Towergate didnt make that offer, his employer did
He looked carefully at the insistent client process and found Towergate had followed 
it correctly.
Based on the evidence available the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint or ask it to 
do anything further.
Mr L was extremely disappointed by this outcome. He says other employees have been 
compensated and it is unfair that he hasnt been. He reiterates he doesnt believe he was 
aware he was either told he was acting against advice or was aware of it and that any 
signature agreeing he was aware must be a forgery. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Towergate. 
The advice Mr L is complaining about was provided 14 years ago. Whilst I am sure that Mr L 
has given us his complete and honest recollections of what happened, I have to be mindful 
that over such an extended period of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, 
fade. So, where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or 
should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
Mr L has said that he does not recall more than one meeting with Towergate and that it was 
very short at around 15 minutes, but the documentary evidence provide by Towergate 
clearly suggests otherwise. As already stated, there are two letters which follow a timeline 
that is entirely plausible following the signed acceptance to receive advice on 31 October 
with two meetings, both of which were followed up with a written outcome. Indeed, it would 
be difficult to assimilate all the information contained within those reports in such a short 
period of time.
The first suitability report dated 27 November 2007 comprised of 21 pages. Having read the 
suitability letter there is a clear picture of Mr Ls then current financial position, his needs and 
objectives, his attitude to risk, details of his then current occupational scheme, a comparison 
of benefits and a clear recommendation not to transfer his benefits from the scheme.
It based its recommendation on very clear needs and objectives which it detailed in the 
suitability letter which read:
I recommend that you do not transfer away from the occupational scheme because the
transfer value offered including the additional payment when transferred into an
alternative arrangement is unlikely to produce higher retirement benefits and it is
likely to involve higher risk. In particular this is because the investment returns (the
critical yield of 6.6%) required to match your existing Peugeot entitlement is relatively
high. The level of risk is out of line with your personal attitude to risk. Additionally, I
have not been made aware of nor identified any compelling rationale pertinent to
your particular circumstances which might swing the recommendation from stay to
transfer away.
In addition, you stated that providing a spouses or dependants pension on death
before retirement is a high priority for you. Again, I refer you to the fact that the PSA
scheme provides benefits payable as income on death to both spouse and
dependants. A spouse would receive 50% of the member's pension (and dependants
up to 33.3% in total). Whereas a personal pension typically has the option to provide
income which is not at a pre-determined level. This is a key reason not to transferI note that Mr L had a ten year old son at the time he received the advice and so this would 
be entirely correct advice based on the discussion Mr L had with he adviser and importantly 
what was important to him at the time.
The second suitability report is dated 3 December 2007 and again makes a clear 
recommendation not to transfer his benefits from his then occupational scheme but explains 
what Mr L must do if he wishes to proceed, as he indicated against the advisers advice on 
an insistent customer basis.
Mr L then sent an email dated 3 December 2007 which confirmed he believed he had 
received good advice but wanted to transfer his benefits out of his occupational scheme as 
he didnt trust the organisation. Mr L made it clear in the email he understood he was 
acting against advice.
Ive carefully considered the guidance that the regulator has set out for businesses when 
dealing with an insistent client, to determine if Towergate acted fairly and correctly. This 
guidance can be found at COBS 9.5A. To be defined as an insistent client Mr L needed to: 
 Have received a personal recommendation from Towergate. 
 Want to enter into a transaction that was different from that recommended by Towergate. 
 Want Towergate to facilitate that transaction.
In this case I think that definition fitted Mr L. He had received a personal recommendation 
from Towergate which was quite specific in saying:
I recommend that you do not transfer away from the occupational scheme because the 
transfer value offered including the additional payment when transferred into an alternative 
arrangement is unlikely to produce higher retirement benefits and it is likely to involve higher 
risk. 
So, in order to proceed in line with the above definition, Towergate had to communicate with 
Mr M: 
 In terms that were clear and not misleading.
 To ensure he was able to understand the process. 
 To demonstrate it hadnt recommended the transaction and that it wasnt in agreement with 
the recommendation. 
 The reasons why it disagreed with the recommendation.
 The risks of Mr Ls proposed actions. 
 The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction. 
On balance I think Towergate did meet these objectives and so I think it followed the correct 
course in dealing with Mr L as an insistent client. 
I appreciate Mr L says the offer of a lump sum at the time lured him into transferring his 
pension benefits away. Indeed, in his email of 3 December 2007, he says:
the cash would be of more use to me now, then when Im 65. I would like to take a cash 
payment now, and the rest go into another pension plan
But I agree with the investigator, Towergate didnt make that offer, nor did it benefit from Mr 
L taking the cash. Mr Ls employer made the offer and so I cant hold Towergate responsible 
for a decision Mr L made when the recommendation was very clear not to transfer his 
benefits away from the occupational scheme.I can also see on 5 December 2007 Mr L signed a declaration confirming that hed read, 
received and understood the second report and he understood he was acting against advice 
by proceeding with the transfer. I appreciate Mr L now says he doesnt remember signing 
these documents and believes his signature has been forged. Im afraid Im not a 
handwriting expert and so I cant comment but as a lay person the signature is consistent 
with others I have looked at in the file and so on balance Im satisfied its more likely than not 
Mr L did sign the declaration.
Whilst, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr L might not now think he made the best decision in 
2007, I dont conclude that was as a result of something that Towergate did wrong. I 
appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr L, particularly given he is aware of 
other former employees receiving compensation following their transfer of pension benefits 
from the OPS around the same time. 
But I must decide this complaint on the specific facts of Mr Ls circumstances and the advice 
Towergate gave to him. It isnt usually helpful to draw any conclusions from other individuals 
whose circumstances might be entirely different. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award Towergate 
Financial (East) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman