DRN-2243556
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has registered a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr A told us he had a £100 arranged overdraft on his Lloyds current account. He said he 
missed two payments, and Lloyds defaulted his account. He said he didnt get any letters 
from Lloyds about this. He said he never gets any post Lloyds sends. He thinks this might be 
due to a dispute with a neighbour. And he said that he isnt using a smart phone any more, 
so he hadnt opened online messages from Lloyds. He told us that he was a frontline worker 
during the pandemic, and had been unwell at the relevant time.
Mr A wanted the default to be removed. He said he could no longer get a mortgage. This 
was affecting his mental health and his marriage. He said that he wouldnt have ignored the 
letters from Lloyds if he had received them. 
Lloyds said that Mr As account had been in an unarranged overdraft since January 2020. It 
said it had sent him a number of letters and text alerts about this. And on 29 February 2020 
it written to him to give him two months warning of its intention to close his account. Lloyds 
had warned Mr A then that if he didnt pay, this debt would be defaulted, and it told him how 
this was likely to impact him in the future.
Lloyds said it was sorry to hear that Mr A had been ill in recent months, but it said that the 
arrears on his account had accrued prior to this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr As overdraft 
was repayable on demand. Lloyds had acted within its terms and conditions by asking
Mr A to pay the money back. Lloyds had been writing to Mr A since early February to ask 
him to do that. And it had been sending him text messages to tell him about his overdrawn 
balance and asking him to get in touch. Our investigator thought that if Mr As number had 
changed, he shouldve told Lloyds this. 
Our investigator said it is Mr As responsibility to manage his account. Lloyds had tried 
repeatedly to get in touch, and our investigator didnt think it couldve done anything else. He 
didnt think Lloyds hadnt been unfair, or acted outside of its agreement with Mr A. So our 
investigator said he wouldnt ask Lloyds to do anything now. 
Mr A said that he wanted someone else to consider his complaint. He said we werent 
looking at the fact that he was sick, or that he had to sell his phone to raise money, and he 
didnt get any notice from the bank about his missed payment or default. Mr As case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr A has been unwell, and I do hope hes now made a full recovery. 
I can see that the evidence weve received about Mr As illness suggests that he became 
unwell at the start of May 2020. Thats just after Lloyds defaulted this account, and some 
time after it had written to him about the debt. So I dont think its likely that Mr As illness has 
affected whats happened to this account.
Mr A was using this account regularly, and making small payments into it by bank transfer, 
until the end of November 2019. He continued to use the account after this, into early 
December, but only made one very small payment into the account in this time, which wasnt 
enough to cover his spending. 
As Mr A was using this account on a daily basis in early December, and continued to do so 
until he was within a few pounds of his overdraft limit, I think its likely that Mr A knew about 
the status of the account at this time. And, as there had previously been relatively regular 
deposits into this account, which stopped at the end of November, I think its likely that Mr A 
knew the overdraft on this account hadnt been paid off. 
Mr A said he wasnt able to view the online messages that Lloyds sent him, because he had 
to sell his smartphone. And he says problems with his address mean that he doesnt always 
get his post. 
Lloyds has shown us that it also sent Mr A a number of text messages at this time, asking 
him to get in touch about this account. I thought it was possible that Mr A might have 
changed his number, if he had to sell his phone. But Lloyds has confirmed it has only ever 
held one number for him. And thats the same as the number that Mr A gave us when he 
brought this complaint to us. 
Lloyds has also shown us that Mr A was logging in to online banking regularly between 
January and May 2020. 
So I think its likely that Mr A was aware that Lloyds was trying to get in touch. 
But even if Mr A didnt know that Lloyds was trying to contact him, I would still say that 
Lloyds did all I would expect it to do, to try to contact Mr A. Because Lloyds tried repeatedly 
to contact Mr A, and because it warned him that the account would be defaulted if he didnt 
pay, that means I dont think it has to remove this default from his credit file now. 
Mr A has told us this default is having severe consequences for him. Im sorry to hear that. I 
understand that this means my decision will be very disappointing for Mr A, but for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman