DRN-1436075
The complaint
Ms W says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about 2 short-term loans MYJAR provided to Ms W in 2013 and 2015. Ms 
Ws borrowing history is as follows: 
Loan Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Number of 
InstalmentsAmount Highest 
Repayment
1 22.09.13 17.11.14 1 500 600
2 30.06.15 outstanding 3 475 259
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Ws complaint and thought the first loan should not have 
been given. MYJAR disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, given the number of loans and 
their timing, I dont think this applies in this case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
I can see that, a few hours before the second loan referred to above was taken out by Ms W, 
there was another slightly smaller loan that was cancelled at short notice or not completed. I 
have no details of what happened. And in the circumstances of this case I think that its fair 
and reasonable to assume that Ms W just decided at short notice that she wanted to take out 
the larger amount instead. And that I do not need to take this loan into account when 
considering Ms Ws lending history.
Because of the gap between Ms W paying off the first loan and taking out the second, in the 
circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that it is reasonable to treat them as two 
separate loans and not part of a chain of two loans. This means that MYJAR made each of 
the loans at the start of its lending relationship with Ms W. And accordingly I consider that 
less thorough checks would be proportionate than had the loans been given part way into 
the period of a longer chain.
In respect of the first loan, MYJAR told us that, in addition to other checks, it asked Ms W 
what her income was. I can see that the repayment Ms W was required to make on this 
borrowing was a significant proportion of the income she declared. I think this means that 
there was a significant risk that she wouldnt have been able to meet her existing 
commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely Ms W would have been 
able to sustainably meet her repayment for this loan. So MYJAR shouldnt have given her 
this loan. And Im upholding this complaint in respect of this loan.
In respect of the second loan, MYJAR says it asked Ms W for her income and housing costs. 
Ive seen its record of these. It also says that it asked her for her other monthly credit 
repayments and other expenses, but it hasnt shown us what, if anything, she declared for 
these. But I can see that it made an allowance for her other monthly expenditure based on, 
what I consider to be, reasonable assumptions. MYJAR also undertook certain credit checks 
with credit reference agencies. Overall Im satisfied that the checks MYJAR undertook for 
this loan were proportionate. The monthly repayments for this loan represented less than 
half the proportion of Ms Ws stated income than that represented by the first loan. And they 
were not at a level that I consider would, of themselves, have given rise to a significant risk 
that she wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments. Nor do I find that there was anything else revealed by the results of the other checks MYJAR carried out that would 
reasonably have led MYJAR to conclude that Ms W wouldnt have been able to sustainably 
make her instalment repayments for this loan. So I see no reason to uphold Ms Ws 
complaint in respect of it.
Putting things right
If MYJAR has sold the outstanding debt MYJAR should buy it back if MYJAR is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If MYJAR is not able to buy back the debt then MYJAR 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. MYJAR should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 1, not including anything MYJAR has already 
refunded;
B. MYJAR should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. the amounts calculated in B, (after deduction of tax), and A should be used to 
repay any balance remaining on loan 2 and any principal MYJAR has already written-
off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms W. However if 
there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms W:
D. MYJAR should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in 
relation to loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should 
give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Ms Ws complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Ms W compensation and amend her credit file as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman