DRN-3421653
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card irresponsibly allowed him to open 
a credit card account and later increased the credit limit to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Mr L says he opened the Marbles account in 2015 and at the time had a number of other 
credit card accounts as well as a default on his credit file. He says he was using payday 
lending and had a gambling problem. Mr L says the lending and later credit limit increases 
were unaffordable and appropriate checks would have shown that. He would like interest 
and charges refunded.
Marbles says the account was opened in 2015 and appropriate checks were carried out. It 
says Mr L told it he was earning about £36,000 a year and it calculated his other debt at 
about £8,200. It also says the default was of some age and the credit limit of £900 was 
relatively modest. Marbles says the credit limit was increased in August 2016 to £1,950 and 
later to £2,950 in March 2020. It says Mr L didnt tell it about any financial difficulties.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought appropriate checks were carried out when the account was opened. But 
the later credit limit increases were unaffordable and shouldnt have been granted. The 
investigator thought prior to the first credit limit increase Mr Ls overall debt had increased to 
over £25,000 and he was using short term payday lending every month. The investigator 
thought that should have led to further checks which would have shown the extent of Mr Ls 
gambling. The investigator recommended interest and charges be refunded and that 
Marbles pay £100 compensation.
Mr L accepts that view, but Marbles does not. It questions Mr Ls monthly repayment of debt 
at £3,300 a month as calculated by the investigator. And says by the time of the second 
credit limit increase Mr Ls overall debt had dropped to just over £20,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
There is no longer any dispute that the original lending was affordable and so I dont intend 
to comment on that further.
The key part of the complaint is the first credit limit increase in August 2016. I can see that 
Mr L managed his account appropriately before the increase by making required payments 
which of course Marbles was entitled to consider. But as it knows it must carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the affordability of a credit card account or of 
any credit limit increases. The type of checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. And I accept this was an increase to a credit facility rather than for 
example a mortgage application, so I wouldnt have expected Marbles checks to have been 
as detailed as for that type of lending. But of course, appropriate checks must be carried out.
Im satisfied that Marbles ought reasonably to have seen that Mr Ls debt had significantly 
increased from the account opening in 2015 to the credit limit increase in 2016 from just over 
£8,000 to over £25,000. And it also should have seen that Mr L was using numerous forms 
of short-term high interest lending from a number of sources. Those two factors ought to 
have been reasonably clear to Marbles when it ought to have carried out affordability checks 
on the credit limit increase. And they ought to have raised potential affordability concerns. I 
cant see why Marbles didnt notice or consider those factors or what detailed checks it did 
carry out apart from considering Mr Ls account management.
Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would have revealed the reasons 
for the increase in debt and the use of short-term lending which was Mr Ls gambling habit. I 
think it highly likely that if Marbles had looked at the credit limit increase in more detail it 
would or ought to have realised what the issue was. And a request to look at Mr Ls bank 
account statements would have revealed the gambling habit and the use of the short-term 
lending if that hadnt been seen on the checks that should have been carried out on Mr Ls 
credit file. I think it unlikely Marbles would have allowed the credit limit increase is further 
checks had been carried out.
Im satisfied that the first credit limit increase was unaffordable and that reasonable and 
proportionate checks were not carried out. It follows that the second increase shouldnt have 
been approved for those reasons. I appreciate Marbles questions the level of Mr Ls monthly 
repayments but Im satisfied that those same figures were available for Marbles to review if it 
wished and I have made clear that Mr Ls debt was over £25,000 and he was using payday 
lending.
Putting things right
Marbles should refund interest and charges applied over and above the original credit limit 
on the account from the date of the first credit limit increase in August 2016. It appears that 
the account has been closed and that there is no outstanding balance. If that is the case 
Marbles should pay interest on any refund due to Mr L at 8% simple interest each year. If 
there is a balance owed to Marbles, then that refund should be deducted from it first. 
Marbles should also adjust the information on Mr Ls credit file and if it deducts taxation from 
that refund then it should provide Mr L with an appropriate certificate of deduction. Finally, 
Marbles should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused which I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles 
Card to follow the above order as set out by refunding interest and charges and by paying 
Mr L £100 compensation as well as 8% simple interest per year on the refunded amount 
from the date charged. It should also amend Mr Ls credit file and provide him with a 
certificate of deducted taxation of necessary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman