DRN-3084965
The complaint
Mrs F had complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent and that insurer has now taken responsibility 
for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill just be referring to AXA in this decision. Mrs F may 
notice that the name of the business has changed from when she first made her complaint 
and thats because AXA have taken over from the previous insurer.
What happened
Mrs F took out the PPI in 2001 at the same time as applying for the card in a shop.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs F says she wasnt aware shed taken out PPI  meaning that it was added without her 
knowledge or consent. Ive seen a copy of the store card application form that was 
completed at the time of the sale. The form has a separate section for PPI that Mrs F has 
signed in to request the policy. She could have left that section blank if she hadnt wanted 
the PPI. Mrs F says that, if she signed for it, she would have thought that she was signing to 
get the store card and not PPI. However, as well as signing for the PPI towards the top of 
the form, Mrs F has signed again at the bottom  which is the part that she had to sign for 
the store card.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Fs recollection of 
events has faded. Given the layout and wording of the form, I consider that Mrs F would 
have known that she had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that she probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing 
so.
AXA didnt advise Mrs F to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Mrs F with sufficient information for her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs F says she would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs F would have received full pay 
for. Mrs F says she would have had some savings at the time. But having the policy would 
have allowed her to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. Overall, I think Mrs F had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs F wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont consider that further 
information would have caused her to change her mind. So shes no worse off as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing AXA needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman