DRN-4147895
The complaint
Mr A and the estate of Mrs A complain that they received unsuitable financial advice from 
Nationwide Building Society. In particular they say their attitude to investment risk was not 
properly assessed and they did not fully understand the risks involved in the products that 
were recommended.
Mr A and the estate of Mrs A are represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
I understand that in mid-2000, Nationwide advised Mr A and his late wife, Mrs A to invest 
£5,000 each into a structured product called a Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) and £7,000 
each into a stocks and shares ISA. It appears the ISA was invested in a FTSE tracker fund. 
Later that year they were also advised to invest £2,000 in joint names into a UK Growth 
Fund. 
All the investments were surrendered a number of years ago and the records Nationwide 
holds in respect of these investments is incomplete.
Nationwide has been able to provide a fact find that was completed at the time the advice 
was given in 2000, as well as the suitability report and some key features information that 
would have been provided to Mr A and the late Mrs A at the time the advice was given.
The fact find information shows that at the time the advice was given Mr A was 62 years old 
and was still working and Mrs A was 63 years old and worked part time. They had a monthly 
surplus of income over expenditure of over £900, held shares worth around £1,500 and had 
£56,500 in deposit based savings. Their attitude to investment risk was assessed as 
balanced. The adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs A were looking to maximise capital 
growth over the medium to long term.
Very sadly Mrs A passed away in early 2005. It appears that the investments Mrs A held 
were encashed later in 2005. I understand that Mr A held his GEB to maturity when he 
received a return of his initial investment. Nationwide has said the ISA investment and the 
unit trust were both encashed more than six years ago, and it no longer holds the records 
that would confirm exactly when these investments were encashed.
In 2022, the representative for Mr A and the estate of Mrs A complained to Nationwide. He 
said he felt the advice they had received was unsuitable.
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. It said it was satisfied that the advice was suitable, 
based on the information that had been recorded about Mr A and the late Mrs A at the time 
the advice was given.
The representative was not satisfied with Nationwides response and referred the matter to 
this service.
(Initially Nationwide said it felt the complaint had been brought too late for this service to be 
able to consider it. But having received a view from our investigator, setting out why he felt 
the complaint had not been brought too late, Nationwide consented to this service 
considering the complaint.)
Having considered the information available on the merits of this complaint, our investigator 
said he was satisfied that Nationwide had assessed Mr and Mrs As attitude to investment 
risk. He noted that the fact find set out what a balanced attitude to investment risk meant 
and Mr and Mrs A had signed to confirm that the information in the fact find was accurate. 
He said he was of the view that the investments recommended had not been unsuitable and 
were in-line with Mr A and the late Mrs As stated attitude to investment risk
He also said he was satisfied that the illustration for the GEB explained that there was no 
guarantee that an investor would get back more than they had invested.  
Mr A and the late Mrs As representative did not accept our investigators view. He said, in 
summary:
- he didnt think the assessment of Mr A and the late Mrs As attitude to investment risk 
had established their true attitude to risk;
- he felt the information Mr A and the late Mrs A received at the point of sale was 
exceptionally unclear and he said he didnt think Mr A and the late Mrs A could have 
reached any meaningful understanding of the investment regardless of whether they 
signed the paperwork at the end or not;
- he felt the GEB was exceptionally complex for inexperienced investors and he said he 
didnt think a structured product with capped growth was suitable for inexperienced 
investors; and 
- he said,  taking risk with their capital and the guaranteed return available from risk 
free products was not suitable for Mr A and the late Mrs As circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the advice Mr A and the late Mrs A received from Nationwide 
was unsuitable based on the information that was recorded at the time about their personal 
and financial circumstances. Ill explain why.
Attitude to investment risk
The representative says he doesnt think the assessment Nationwide carried out of Mr A and 
the late Mrs As attitude to investment risk established their true attitude to risk. 
I have carefully considered the points their representative has made and what he considers 
to be failings in the descriptions Nationwide used to describe different attitudes to investment 
risk. However, I must take into account that the adviser provided further explanations of the 
risks involved in equity based investments. I note he also set out that Mr A and the late Mrs 
A understood the risks involved in the additional information section of the fact find. It said:
We discussed equity based/linked investments and you indicated your understanding of 
these. You felt these have greater potential to outperform inflation and provide higher returns 
than would be expected from traditional deposit based investments, such as the Building 
Society.It also set out that Mr A and the late Mrs A understood the advantages of retaining deposit 
based savings: 
You wish the balance to remain in deposit based savings as these provide you with security 
of capital and a known rate of return and can be used to meet unexpected emergencies.
In view of this I cant reasonably accept the representatives view that Nationwide failed to 
properly establish Mr A and the late Mrs As attitude to investment risk. I am satisfied, based 
on the information available, that they understood the risks involved in equity based 
investments.
GEB
The representative says he feels the GEB was exceptionally complex for inexperienced 
investors and he says he doesnt think a structured product with capped growth was suitable 
for inexperienced investors.
I appreciate the points the representative has raised, but I am satisfied that the risks involved 
were explained to Mr A and the late Mrs A. In particular, I note that in the recommendation 
the adviser set out:
I am recommending the Guaranteed Equity Bond as it offers investment growth potential 
without risk to your capital. Any maturity value stated [above] is a projected amount only 
The actual return you will receive is linked to a collection of stock market indices Do not 
forget that inflation would reduce what you can buy in the future with the amount shown.  
These risk warnings were also set out in the key features illustrations that were provided to 
Mr A and the late Mrs A.
It is not in dispute that structured products can be difficult for consumers to fully understand. 
But I am satisfied the risk that Mr A and the late Mrs A might only receive a return of the 
capital they had invested was made clear to them in the information they received at the time 
they took out the GEBs. 
As I set out above, I am also satisfied that Mr A and the late Mrs A understood the 
advantages and disadvantages of both deposit based savings and equity based investing 
and were willing to accept a moderate degree of risk with the money they were investing.
Having carefully considered this aspect of their complaint, I dont think the advice to invest a 
total of £10,000, less than 20% of Mr A and the late Mrs As deposit based savings, in the 
GEB was unsuitable.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr A and the late Mrs A would have been 
better off if they had left this money on deposit and had not invested it. Although this is 
disappointing, it does not in itself mean the advice to invest in the GEB was unsuitable.
Point of sale information provided 
The representative for Mr A and the late Mrs A says he feels the point of sale information 
that was provided was exceptionally unclear and he doesnt think Mr A and the late Mrs A 
could have reached any meaningful understanding of the investment regardless of 
whether they signed the paperwork at the end or not.
As the representative will be aware the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) is responsible for setting the rules and guidance in relation to key features documentation provided to consumers. If the representative wishes to pursue any concerns 
he has about the clarity of the point of sale information, he may wish to raise this with the 
FCA. 
If Mr A or the late Mrs A did not understand the information they received when they took out 
the GEB, they would have been free to raise this with their adviser. However, I cant 
reasonably agree that any concerns their representative might now have about the point of 
sale information means the advice they received was unsuitable.
Summary
The representative has said,  taking risk with their capital and the guaranteed return 
available from risk free products was not suitable for Mr A and the late Mrs As 
circumstances.
Having reviewed the information available from 2000, when the advice was given, I cannot 
reasonably find that Mr A and the late Mrs A did not understand the risks involved in equity 
based investments. I am satisfied that they wanted to achieve potentially higher returns 
over the medium to longer term, but understood that there was no guarantee that the 
investments would outperform deposit based savings. I must also consider that even after 
the investments had been made Mr A and the late Mrs A had around £30,000 in deposit 
based savings and a monthly surplus of over £900 of income over expenditure, so were able 
to increase their deposit based savings, at least until they stopped working.
I am also mindful that it appears from the records made at the time the investment advice 
was given, that Mr A and the late Mrs A were actively involved in deciding how much to 
invest in both the GEB and the stocks and shares ISAs. 
Having carefully considered all the information available, I cannot reasonably find that the 
advice Nationwide provided was unsuitable.  
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and the 
estate of Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman