DRN-3631842
The complaint
Mrs B complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) 
recommended an inappropriate unit-linked savings plan with a duration of 20 years. 
What happened
The background is already well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail here. In 
summary, Mrs B accepted the advice to take out the savings plan in March 1988. Her 
representative complained to Sun Life on her behalf and contacted our service as she 
remained unhappy with the response. 
Our Investigator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Sun Life accepted the opinion, but 
Mrs B disagreed. Her representative said the plan was inappropriate and Mrs B had no 
understanding of the stock market and such products. Theyve said they understand it was a 
pre-regulation sale, but maintain the advice was poor and difficult to justify. 
Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This sale happened some time ago which means the documents available are limited. This 
isnt unusual given the time which has passed. Nevertheless, I have considered the 
evidence I do have and weighed up what I think is more likely to have happened on balance. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the Investigator for these reasons: 
- The advice was provided before the Financial Services Act 1988 came into force on 
29 April 1988. At the time of the sale, Sun Life had a duty to act with reasonable care 
and skill to make a recommendation which was appropriate or a reasonable fit for 
Mrs B. 
- Ive considered Mrs Bs representatives comments about her experience and 
employment at the time of the sale. There wasnt a requirement for Sun Life to 
assess her attitude to risk. However, Ive seen the product particulars and Im 
satisfied its likely they were sent to Mrs B around the time the plan was sold. The 
document set out the nature of the plan and how it worked so Mrs B could make an 
informed decision. 
- Ive also thought about the duration of the plan and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time. It was a 20-year plan and matured when she reached the age of 65. Mrs B paid 
monthly contributions up to the maturity date, so it seems to have been affordable.
- I think its likely the duration of the plan was discussed at the time as the option for 
medium to long term growth was referred to in the product particulars. And Im not 
persuaded the duration of the plan shows the recommendation was inappropriate.
 
- Mrs Bs representative said she had no need for any life cover and Ive considered 
her circumstances when the policy was sold. However, Im content its likely the level 
of cover was discussed at the time and Mrs B chose cover of £8,000. The life cover 
was also explained in the product particulars so again Mrs B could make an informed 
decision. Id note, as Mrs Bs representative has acknowledged, that the life cover 
ensured the savings plan remained qualifying for tax purposes. 
- Overall, it seems likely Mrs B wanted to build up a lump sum through regular savings. 
The unit-linked savings plan was appropriate for this purpose and seems to have 
been a reasonable fit. Therefore, Im content Sun Life acted with reasonable care 
when making the recommendation. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman