DRN-3372140
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA) 
to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with the British Steel 
Pensions Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He believes that the advice was unsuitable 
for him and has resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
It seems Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. So Mr E contacted a financial adviser, SKA, 
in late 2016. 
SKA gathered information about Mr Es circumstances and objectives. However, as it didnt 
hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the 
transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it said another firm - which Ill call Firm R - 
could provide Mr E with pension transfer advice. 
On 14 December 2016, SKA wrote to Mr E and explained that Firm R would be carrying out 
the pension advice and it invited Mr E to confirm he was giving his permission for this to 
happen. On 22 December 2016, Mr E signed a declaration saying he was permitting Firm R 
to carry out the necessary financial advice concerning his pension on his behalf. And in 
January 2017, following Firm Rs advice £486,844 was transferred from the BSPS to a 
personal pension. After the transfer, agency for the personal pension was switched back to 
SKA for it to provide ongoing advice and servicing on behalf of Mr E.
In 2020, Mr E complained to SKA about the advice he says hed been given to transfer out. 
However, SKA told him it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said 
it had referred him to Firm R. The complaint was then referred to our Service as Mr Es 
representative says he had never met with Firm R and that his only dealings were with SKA, 
so it should be held liable.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it. They 
werent persuaded that SKA had advised Mr E to transfer his pension and explained that it 
was Firm R that advised him to do so. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
My understanding of Mr Es representatives position is that SKA should be held liable for the 
pension transfer advice. This is because Mr E says he never actually met with, or spoke to 
or directly dealt with anyone, from Firm R. He says that whilst he was informed of a third 
partys involvement, he didnt understand the nature and extent of this. Mr Es representative 
also says SKA did not treat Mr E fairly or have regard to his best interests. 
Ill deal with each of these issues in turn.
Did SKA advise Mr E to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence with great care, Im not persuaded that SKA 
advised Mr E to transfer his BSPS benefits. I accept that Mr E dealt directly with SKA, rather 
than Firm R. Ive also taken into account that SKA completed a number of important 
preliminary documents, including the fact-find and risk profile. I note these documents 
contained information about Mr Es pension and what his objectives were with regard to it.  
Ive also thought about the nature and timing of some of these documents and note they 
were most likely prepared by SKA before Firm R had provided its pension advice.
However, its important for me to point out that SKA did not have the necessary regulatory 
permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational pension schemes. In 
my view, this was made clear by SKA when it wrote to Mr E on 14 December 2016. Ive seen 
that in this letter it was explained that SKA did not have the relevant permissions, and that 
Firm R was being asked to provide the pension advice as a result. The letter specifically 
pointed out that Firm R was responsible for the provision of that pension advice. Mr E 
acknowledged this by signing an attached declaration form and returning it to SKA so I think 
hed have been aware at that point the pension advice was being carried out by a different 
company.
Many of the documents Ive seen in this case, some of which Ive mentioned above, were 
promptly completed by SKA directly after Mr E engaged with it. And so I accept this could 
have given rise to a genuine belief that SKA was giving him advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. However, as our investigator pointed out, I think these documents were prepared 
for Firm Rs benefit should the advice be to go ahead with the transfer. 
On the other hand, Ive noted Mr E was provided with other documents too, including a 
Service Agreement and also a confirmation of transfer advice, which bore Firm Rs name. 
And Ive seen that SKAs fees applied to ongoing financial advice, rather than pension 
transfer advice. In my view therefore, these things would all have provided further 
information to Mr E that the pension advice was being provided by Firm R, rather than SKA. 
Nevertheless, I think its possible that SKA was hopeful that Firm R would indeed go on to 
advise Mr E to transfer out of the BSPS so it could become his ongoing adviser and receive 
the fees Ive mentioned above. And its certainly possible that Mr E believed SKA was 
advocating for the transfer of his pension benefits for this reason. But I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade me that SKA gave Mr E a personal recommendation about 
his pension transfer, either verbally or in writing. I think the evidence is more persuasive that 
Firm R advised Mr E to transfer out of the BSPS, not SKA.
Even if I consider that its possible that SKA strayed into giving Mr E verbal advice to transfer 
his BSPS benefits, I still dont think he could have done so based on those interactions 
alone. I say this because the transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS clearly stated that Mr E would be required to provide evidence that he had taken 
appropriate financial advice if he wanted to transfer out of his BSPS benefits to a flexible 
benefits scheme. This requirement was repeated in the transfer value discharge form, which 
stated that Mr E would need to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that such 
advice had been given. So, I dont think Mr E could have transferred out of the BSPS based 
on the meetings he had with SKA, or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he simply 
wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
In the event, SKA did not produce a suitability report (or a similar document) about the 
pension transfer, which I think provides further evidence that it didnt give Mr E any advice in 
respect of his pension. Firm R, however, provided a certificate showing it had provided the 
required financial advice to enable the pension transfer to take place. 
This means Im satisfied it was Firm R that gave the advice for Mr E to transfer out of the 
BSPS. I dont think SKAs involvement should automatically make it liable for the suitability of 
the pension transfer advice provided by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr E to transfer out of the BSPS.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr E would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Es 
representative says Mr E was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. 
But on balance I dont think Mr E would have gone against the advice provided by Firm R. 
Mr E was a relatively inexperienced investor, was still a few years below the age he wanted 
to semi-retire at, and he had no concrete plans other than to reduce his hours in the medium 
term future. So I think if Firm R had provided Mr E with clear advice in writing against 
transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr E would have acted 
against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with SKA.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr E to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm R is responsible for 
Mr Es losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?
Mr Es representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R to facilitate Mr E 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr E has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr E to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Es 
representative states that Mr E was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr E 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Es losses flow from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with SKA before that.
SKA did not treat Mr E fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Es representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr E fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm R. It says that SKA ought to have known that transferring 
out of a DB scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it endorsed the advice.
As I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr E 
on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr E against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As SKA didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr E to Firm R, which was regulated by the FCA 
to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think SKA could reasonably be expected to carry 
out further due diligence on Firm R, particularly as Firm R had the necessary permissions 
from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat 
Mr E fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Es decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm R. I am also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr E unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require SKA to pay compensation to Mr E or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman