DRN-3036614
The complaint
Miss N and Mr S are unhappy Aspen Insurance UK Limited turned down a claim they made
on their wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N and Mr S took out wedding insurance with Aspen in February 2020 for a planned
overseas wedding in September 2020. After the outbreak of Covid-19 and subsequent
restrictions on travel they discussed options with the wedding venue. Although some
alternative dates were available Miss N and Mr S didnt think these were suitable so at the
end of June 2020 they cancelled their wedding. As the venue wouldnt refund their deposit
they made a claim on their insurance for that and the cost of Miss Ns wedding dress.
Miss N and Mr S told Aspen theyd cancelled because:
They were unable to source wedding attire or arrange for alterations because shops
were closed as a result of lockdown;
Wedding guests (including close family members) were travelling from other overseas
locations and would have had difficulties in reaching the venue and were concerned at
travelling during the global pandemic;
Miss N had been furloughed as a result of the pandemic which meant they were under
financial pressure as were other family members who had agreed to contribute to the
costs of the wedding;
Their parents were elderly and vulnerable and so would not have been able to travel to
the wedding as a result of the pandemic.
Aspen said their policy didnt cover them for cancellation for any of those reasons.
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered by the policy. And at the point the wedding
was cancelled Covid-19 restrictions had been relaxed and a review of travel advice was
underway; a few days after the cancellation the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
exempted the country where the wedding was due to take place from its advice against all
but essential travel. That remained the case until after the scheduled date of the wedding.
She thought it was fair of Aspen to turn down the claim.
Miss N and Mr S didnt agree. They said the courts had classed Covid-19 as a natural
catastrophe so this would meet the terms of the policy. And at the time of cancellation the
advice against all but essential travel remained in place and guests travelling from other
locations would also have been subject to advice from their own country which would have
prevented their attendance.
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aspen has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate having to cancel their wedding will have been extremely distressing for Miss N
and Mr S.I know this will have been a difficult time for them. But the question I need to
consider is whether Aspen did anything wrong in turning down the claim they then made.
And I think its worth pointing out that the onus is on them to establish, on balance, that
theyve suffered a loss covered by their policy.
Is the claim covered under the terms of the policy?
The terms set out the circumstances in which Aspen will pay expenses (which could include
the venue and dress costs they claimed for) incurred following the unavoidable cancellation
of a wedding. Looking at Miss N and Mr Ss reasons for cancellation I think the only terms
that could apply to the reasons theyve given are:
your inability or that of at least 50% of any of your parents or step-parents (including
guardians or foster parents) and attendants or at least 50% of the guests to reach the
wedding or wedding reception venue due to adverse weather conditions or natural
catastrophe.
your redundancy or that of any of your close relatives who have or would have made
proven, significant financial contributions on which the wedding arrangements depend,
where notice is received at least 8 weeks after date of purchase of this insurance and
which qualifies for payment under redundancy legislation;
the death, injury or sickness of a prospective marriage or civil partner or their close
relative which would make having or continuing with the wedding and/or wedding
reception impossible;
The policy defines natural catastrophe as Volcanic eruption, avalanche, flood, tsunami,
earthquake, landslide, hurricane, tornado, tropical cyclone or wildfire, or named (by an
appropriate and relevant meteorological authority) storm.
Ive thought about how that applies here. I appreciate the Covid-19 pandemic and
associated travel restrictions would have made it more difficult for guests to attend the
wedding. But for that to meet the policy terms, the inability to travel needs to result from 
adverse weather conditions or a natural catastrophe. I dont think it does
In particular, although Miss N and Mr S say the courts have decided Covid-19 is a natural
catastrophe, they havent provided further evidence of this. And Ive not been able to find a
UK court judgement which says this. In any event their policy contains a specific definition of
natural catastrophe and I think its clear the Covid-19 pandemic doesnt fall within the listed
events.
Miss N and Mr S also say they had to cancel because of financial difficulties. However, the
test in the policy is whether thats come about because of redundancy. Miss N hadnt been
made redundant. So that doesnt meet the terms of the policy. I havent seen evidence to
show that other guests who were making a significant financial contribution had been made
redundant either. And theres an exclusion in the policy for claims caused by a worsening of
your financial circumstances.
I appreciate Miss N and Mr S have elderly parents. I can understand why they might have
been concerned at travelling to the wedding given the risks associated with Covid-19. Butthe policy only provides cover for the death, injury or sickness of a close relative. Miss N
and Mr S confirmed this didnt apply here and that their parents werent, for example,
shielding because they had underlying health conditions which made them particularly
vulnerable to Covid-19.
The policy does cover cancellation where the wedding venue are unable to hold the wedding
or reception for reasons including an outbreak of infectious disease. I think Covid-19 would
count as an outbreak of infectious disease but Miss N and Mr S havent suggested they
cancelled for that reason.
Even if they did, for that to apply here theyd need to have reasonably thought at the point of
cancellation (June 2020) that the venue wouldnt be able to host their wedding as a result of
Covid-19. I dont think that is the case. At the point they cancelled restrictions in the country
where their wedding was to take place had been relaxed (and weddings were allowed) and
that remained the case until after the scheduled wedding date.
UK restrictions had also been eased by then; non-essential shops reopened in June and the
reopening of pubs and restaurants had been announced for the start of July. I appreciate at
the point Miss N and Mr S cancelled their wedding the FCO advice on non-essential travel
remained in place but a review of that advice was underway. News reports at the time
anticipated the guidance would be revised in early July. And that is in fact what happened; at
the start of July a number of countries, including the location of Miss N and Mr Ss wedding,
were exempted from the advice against all but essential travel.
Was it fair of Aspen to turn down the claim?
Miss N and Mr S say the claim should be covered because of force majeure. They went on
to explain that by this they meant there were exceptional circumstances which meant they
couldnt go ahead with the wedding. Ive thought about that but I dont think it would be fair to
ask Aspen to pay the claim.
Miss N and Mr S have said the closure of shops caused them difficulties in sourcing wedding
attire. But, as Ive set out above, non- essential shops had reopened in the UK before they
cancelled the wedding. And while I understand they had financial difficulties, as Miss N had
been furloughed then she would still have been receiving an income.
In addition, and as Ive already said, by the time the wedding took place UK travel
restrictions had eased. I think thats something Miss N and Mr S would have been aware
was likely to happen at the point they cancelled.
I do appreciate it would nevertheless have been difficult for some of their other guests to
reach the wedding. But Ive also taken into account that the wedding venue does appear to
have offered Miss N and Mr S alternative dates for the wedding. I understand their reasons
for not wanting to go ahead with those (for the earlier dates they were concerned about the
weather and the later dates were too far off). But those were options that were open to them.
Taking all of that into account I dont think there are grounds on which I could fairly ask
Aspen to pay a claim which clearly falls outside of the policy terms.Should the limited cover for inability to travel have been drawn to Miss N and Mr Ss
attention when they took the policy out?
As the insurer of the policy Aspen is responsible for producing information about the policy
which highlights its significant exclusions and limitations. But I dont think the terms of this
policy as they relate to inability to travel are unusual. The vast majority of wedding insurance
policies contain similar terms relating to an inability to travel due to adverse weather
conditions or natural catastrophe.
I dont think this would normally be a significant feature of the policy either, in that it wouldnt
tend to affect the decision of consumers generally to buy the policy. Having said that, this
policy was purchased in February 2020, by which time the pandemic was gathering pace.
And in that context, it became more significant that a policy taken out to cover a foreign
wedding would only cover an inability to travel in the event of adverse weather conditions. 
So, arguably, Aspen should have done more to explain this aspect of cover to them.
But the cover under wedding insurance policies for an inability to travel is reasonably
standardised. So, even if Miss N and Mr S had been told more about the circumstances in
which the policy would cover an inability to travel I think its unlikely theyd have found an
alternative policy that would have covered them in these circumstances. I dont think theyve
lost out as a result of any failing by Aspen here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aspen said it didnt have any further information to add. Miss N and Mr S didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider I dont have any 
reason to change the findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
7 October 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman