DRN-4430169
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was a victim of two 
scams.
Mr K is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2022 Mr K came across a firm promoting an investment opportunity on a social media 
website. After reviewing their website and carrying out some online research, Mr K filled in 
an online query form, submitting his details. He was contacted by the firm (the scammer) 
who assisted him, by way of remote desktop software, in opening Revolut and trading 
accounts. The following payments were then made from Mr Ks Revolut account to a 
legitimate crypto exchange before forwarding on as part of the scam:
Date Type Amount
7 October 2022 Debit card transaction £5,000
19 October 2022 Debit card transaction £19,995
2 November 2022 Debit card transaction £10,005
4 November 2022 Debit card transaction £10,000
7 November 2022 Debit card transaction £5,000
7 November 2022 Debit card transaction £5,000
8 November 2022 Debit card transaction £5,000
15 November 2022 Debit card transaction £9,998
25 November 2022 Debit card transaction £10,000
Total £79,998
There was also a declined payment of £20,000 on 18 October 2022. 
Mr K realised hed been scammed when, after requesting a withdrawal of funds, the 
scammer explained that further funds had to be deposited for it to be processed. 
After realising hed been scammed, Mr K sought out additional employment as a way of 
making up the loss hed suffered. And he came across an online advertisement promoting a 
home working opportunity  with the job role requiring rating apps to increase their profile, 
thereby being advertised and promoted to a larger pool of consumers. From this, Mr K would 
receive a commission from the sales generated by the apps boosted. And to boost additional 
products and increase his earnings, Mr K was required to fund his account to access further 
items  and he made the following payments from his Revolut account to a legitimate crypto 
exchange as part of the scam:
Date Type Amount
10 January 2023 Debit card transaction £400
11 January 2023 Debit card transaction £50
11 January 2023 Debit card transaction £800
11 January 2023 Debit card transaction £400
11 January 2023 Debit card transaction £850
12 January 2023 Debit card transaction £1,280
13 January 2023 Debit card transaction £2,500
Total £6,280
Mr K realised hed been scammed when the available items grew increasingly expensive 
and he was unable to fund the account, so he requested a withdrawal of his earnings. The 
scammer told him a further £2,000 deposit was required which Mr K refused.
Mr K received five credits into his Revolut account  between 30 September 2022 and 14 
January 2023  totalling £1,168.48. And so, his net payments (loss) to the scams totals 
£85,109.52.
C complained to Revolut, on behalf of Mr K, on 23 May 2023 saying the payments were 
made as part of two scams. They considered Revolut failed to protect Mr K from the scams 
by not identifying the above payments as unusual, thereby warranting further investigation 
before processing them. C said had Revolut made such enquiries, they wouldve become 
aware Mr K was falling victim to scams. And upon being appropriately warned of the risks 
involved, Mr K wouldnt have proceeded with making the payments. Because of this, C 
wanted Revolut to reimburse Mr K his losses from the scams  along with 8% simple interest 
and £300 compensation. 
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint. They explained all correct procedures were followed on 
their side. And upon being notified of the scams, they tried to recover Mr Ks funds but the 
chargeback claims were rejected as they wouldnt have been successful under the card 
schemes rules  due to the transactions being authorised by Mr K and authenticated via 
3DS authentication. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator didnt however 
think Revolut had to do anything further. In short, he said:
He thought Mr Ks account activity was unusual, as did Revolut by blocking the 
£20,000 payment pending further review. But while Revolut explained to Mr K  via 
their in-app chat  that the account was restricted during their review, they didnt 
question Mr K or provide any scam warnings about the payment before removing the 
restrictions.
While he wouldve expected Revolut to have done this to satisfy themselves Mr K 
wasnt falling victim to a scam, even if they had, he didnt think it wouldve made a 
difference or prevented the payments from being made. 
This was because Mr K confirmed he gave the scammer control of his Revolut 
account, and they dealt with Revolut via their in-app chat regarding the account 
restrictions. So, any questions asked by Revolut about the payments wouldve been 
answered by the scammer  who wouldve given misleading answers which, in turn, 
wouldve reassured Revolut Mr K wasnt falling victim to a scam. 
Regardless of the questions Revolut couldve asked Mr K, it wouldnt have been Mr K 
answering them.
It wasnt for us to tell Revolut how to contact their customers and their terms and 
conditions allow them to use their in-app chat. Its also a secure method of 
communicating as it requires the customers log in details  although, unfortunately 
here, Mr K allowed the scammer control of this account and Revolut wouldnt have 
had reason to suspect this. In respect of the second scam Mr K fell victim to, these payments werent flagged on 
Revoluts system. And considering the prior payments Mr K made to a crypto 
exchange for the investment scam were for significantly greater amounts, he didnt 
think these subsequent payments, for the second scam, wouldve been seen as 
unusual. 
He therefore didnt think Revolut were responsible for the losses Mr K had suffered. 
C disagreed and requested Mr Ks complaint be reviewed by an Ombudsman, and so it has 
been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve added:
The use of remote desktop software doesnt negate Revoluts responsibility to protect 
their client.
The contact details provided for the Revolut account were Mr Ks, and Revoluts 
terms and conditions say they may contact customers by text or email. And so, in 
these circumstances, there was sufficient reason for Revolut to have contacted Mr K 
by other means than simply the in-app chat. 
The first £5,000 payment, as well as the subsequent £19,995 payment, ought to have 
triggered an intervention by Revolut. And as there isnt anything to suggest Mr K was 
given a cover story by the scammers, its unreasonable to conclude he wouldve 
misled Revolut.
If Revolut had asked Mr K relevant contextualised questions about the payments, the 
scams wouldve been uncovered  or at least planted the important seed of mistrust 
which is vital in breaking these manipulations. And Revolut are expected to identify 
and prevent the risk of financial harm to their customers  and so, given they didnt 
ask such questions, they acted in breach of BSI PAS. 
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman operates, the DISP rules, allows an 
Ombudsman to consider good industry practice at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr K has been the victim of two scams and I dont underestimate the impact this 
had on him  particularly as I understand he was persuaded by the scammer to take out 
loans to finance the investment scam. But while Im sympathetic to Mr Ks situation, I must 
consider whether Revolut is responsible for the loss he has suffered. And while I realise this 
isnt the outcome Mr K is hoping for, for similar reasons as our Investigator, I dont think they 
are. I therefore dont think Revolut has acted unfairly by not refunding the payments. Ill 
explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an electronic money institution (EMI) is 
expected to process payments that their customer authorises them to make. Here, although 
instructed by the scammer, it isnt disputed that Mr K knowingly made the payments from his 
Revolut account and so, Im satisfied he authorised them. Therefore, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Revolut are expected to process 
Mr Ks payments and he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr K to Revolut (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual enough to have expected additional checks being 
carried out before the payments were processed. 
The Revolut account was newly opened and so there wasnt any historical spending to have 
allowed Revolut to assess whether the scam payment transactions were unusual or out of 
character for Mr K. Ive therefore thought about whether the payments themselves, without 
any typical account usage available, were suspicious enough to have prompted Revolut to 
consider Mr K was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
The payments were made to legitimate crypto exchanges. And while there are known fraud 
risks associated with crypto, as scams like this have unfortunately become more prevalent, 
many of Revoluts customers use their services to legitimately invest in crypto - particularly 
as many high street banks have applied limits or restrictions. Revolut therefore must strike a 
balance between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. 
Here, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Revolut to have had concerns at the point
Mr K attempted the £20,000 payment on 18 October 2022  which, evidently, it seems 
Revolut did as they blocked the payment while they carried out an account review. And so, 
given this block, Revolut had an opportunity to carry out additional checks before processing 
the payment to ensure Mr K wasnt the victim of a scam. To do this, I wouldve expected 
Revolut to have contacted Mr K to discuss the purpose of the payment  as well as asking 
probing questions to ascertain whether Mr K was at risk of being scammed, particularly 
given the funds were being sent to a crypto exchange (which carries a known fraud risk). 
Although Revolut didnt take the steps I wouldve expected to protect Mr K from the 
investment scam, Ive thought carefully as to whether, if they had, they couldve prevented it. 
And while I know C disagrees, I dont think they reasonably could have. This is because 
Mr K has explained that hed given control of his Revolut account to the scammer, and that it 
was the scammer that was replying to Revolut in the in-app chat regarding the blocked 
payment. And so, even if Revolut had sufficiently probed Mr K about the payment, or any 
subsequent payment towards the investment scam, I think its reasonable to conclude that 
the scammer wouldve likely provided the answers necessary to assure Revolut that Mr K 
was making the payments for legitimate reasons. 
Im also not persuaded that any questioning from Revolut wouldve led to Mr K having 
sufficient doubts about the legitimacy of the investment. As, while he wouldve had sight of 
the conversation(s), it seems Mr K was clearly under the spell of the scammer and trusted 
them  shown by Mr K giving control of his Revolut account but also, to fund the investment, 
taking out £40,000 of lending (and, under the instruction of the scammer, providing home 
improvements as the reason for borrowing as he was told the loans would be declined if he 
said it was for investing). 
Ive also considered Cs point regarding Revoluts method of contact with Mr K, as they feel it 
wouldve been appropriate for them to have contacted him by a method other than their in-
app chat. But while Revoluts terms and conditions say they may communicate with their 
customers by text message or email, it also says theyll usually communicate through their 
app. And so, Revolut werent contractually obligated to contact Mr K by a method other than 
the in-app chat. I also dont think it was unreasonable for Revolut to have contacted Mr K via 
their app as, given it requires entering log in details, it is considered a secure method  and I 
dont think Revolut wouldve had sufficient reason to think Mr Ks details had been 
compromised, thereby warranting them to contact him by another method. It follows that I dont think I can reasonably conclude Revolut couldve prevented the 
payments Mr K made towards the first scam.
Ive also considered whether Revolut is responsible for the loss Mr K suffered from the 
second scam. But, by this point, I dont think the payments wouldve been unusual or out of 
character for Mr K based on his typical account usage. This is because, as part of the 
investment scam, Mr K had previously made payments to a crypto exchange for significantly 
greater amounts  and, as Ive said, Revolut wouldve considered these to have been 
legitimate. I therefore dont think Revolut wouldve had sufficient reason to consider the 
payments made towards the second scam as suspicious or that Mr K was at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. And so, I wouldnt have expected Revolut to have carried out any additional 
checks before processing the payments. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr K and the loss hes suffered. But it would only be fair 
for me to direct Revolut to refund his loss if I thought Revolut was responsible  and Im not 
persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think Revolut has acted fairly and 
so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman