DRN-2262518
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to action his chargeback request properly, 
meaning he lost out on the opportunity to recover the cost of a car he bought on his debt 
card. In resolution of his complaint, Mr B wants Barclays to refund him the full cost of the car 
(£4,750).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In summary Mr B bought a car in early February 2020. Shortly after the purchase he had 
problems with the car and an engineer completed a report for him suggesting there were 
faults. He attempted to return the car to the merchant for a refund, under his 30-day right to 
reject from the Consumer Rights Act (2015) (CRA). The merchant declined the return, 
saying this was a trade sale and so the CRA didnt apply. It therefore didnt agree to the 
refund, but said it would inspect the vehicle. Mr B refused this and started a chargeback with 
Barclays. 
Barclays started the request, but the merchant defended the claim and provided evidence 
which Barclays asked Mr B to comment on. However it didnt attach this to the letter it sent to  
Mr B, so he requested the information be resent and an extension to the 10 days hed been 
given to reply. Barclays didnt acknowledge Mr Bs extension request and closed his claim as 
it said he didnt respond in time  he replied two days after the original deadline. Barclays 
has since agreed to £100 compensation for this error, but said it considers the chargeback 
wouldve failed in any event, as the merchant had offered Mr B a resolution. So it said the 
error didnt impact the overall outcome of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B is relying on his rights under the CRA to justify why he should receive the full 
value of the car back, as he identified faults and contacted the merchant within 30-
days of the purchase. However, chargeback claims are subject to the card scheme 
rules for that purchase  so in this case VISA. The CRA is a different set of rules and 
these apply to sales contracts between consumers and traders  not to VISA or 
Barclays.
The paperwork Ive seen for the sale does state that it is a trade sale and Mr B is a 
trader. I know Mr B disputes this and says he purchased the car as a consumer. 
However neither our service, Barclays or VISA has the power to investigate the 
contract between Mr B and the merchant. So we/they cant look at whether the 
contract was illegal or inappropriate as Mr B has suggested. Mr Bs case for returning 
the vehicle for a full refund  without having to let the merchant inspect it  is based 
on the CRA, but the CRA doesnt apply to non-consumer sales. So on the basis of 
the signed, trade sale paperwork, Mr B isnt entitled to the 30-day right to reject or 
any CRA protection. As such, I agree with Barclays that its more likely the 
chargeback wouldve failed, as it wouldve determined that as the trader had agreed 
to inspect the vehicle and alleged faults, the trader had offered a reasonable solution. 
I understand Mr Bs frustrations that Barclays didnt correctly complete his 
chargeback claim. And I agree this was down to Barclays error not his, so he is due 
compensation for this. However, Barclays isnt required to continue to fight a 
chargeback claim after the merchant has defended it. The merchant had defended 
the claim, so on receipt of Mr Bs further evidence, Barclays wouldve had the choice 
on whether or not to take the case to VISA for arbitration. Based on the evidence Ive 
seen, Im in agreement with Barclays its unlikely the chargeback wouldve been 
successful at arbitration, so I accept it wouldnt have taken this step even if it had 
given Mr B appropriate timescales to respond and considered his evidence. 
The agreement from the sale suggests Mr B isnt entitled to CRA protection and I 
cant say its unreasonable for the merchant to want to inspect the car. So if Barclays 
had correctly processed the chargeback, but declined to take it to arbitration, I 
wouldve concluded this was fair. It seems reasonable the merchant wanted to 
inspect the vehicle and determine if the vehicle was faulty itself. And this means Mr B 
had another potential avenue to recover his costs outside of the chargeback.
Putting things right
Since the case came to our service, Barclays has increased its compensation offer to £100 
for the fact it didnt include the evidence from the merchant in its first letter and then failed to 
extend the timescale for Mr B to respond to this. Its likely he only received a copy of this 
evidence on or very close to this deadline  and he responded only two days after.
Considering whats happened, I think £100 in total is a fair amount for the inconvenience 
caused. As Ive set out above, I dont consider Barclays failure here did result in a financial 
loss for Mr B, as its most likely the chargeback wouldve been unsuccessful in any event. 
But I accept he was caused inconvenience by this error.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid Mr B £50 of the £100 offered, so it should arrange 
for the further £50 to be paid to Mr B.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B the additional £50 compensation, as set out 
above, within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2021.
 Amy Osborne
Ombudsman