DRN-4053631
The complaint
Mr E has complained that the retirement benefits offered by ReAssure Limited in respect of
his section 32 buy-out plan are not in accordance with the policy document. He says that
ReAssure Limited breached the anti-franking regulations in respect of his policy. Mr E has
also said that he delayed taking the benefits from his policy from its Normal Retirement Date
because the options he received implied its value would increase with deferment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 March 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. Ive reproduced the relevant parts of it below, and it forms part 
of this final decision. 
Provisional Decision
In summary, Mr E had a section 32 buy-out plan which started in 1985. In October 2018 Mr E 
received a retirement quote showing what benefits could be payable from it. This referred to a total 
annual income of £13,885 of which £10,346 was a level income annuity benefit, and a Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP) of £3,509.
Mr E didnt take the benefits at that time. He says he was given to understand that he would receive a 
higher annuity if he deferred his retirement date.
In 2019 Mr E decided he wanted to start taking an income and he contacted ReAssure. A retirement 
quote was sent to Mr E dated 2 December 2019. This referred to a total annual income of £14,552, of 
which £10,791 was a level income annuity benefit, and a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of 
£3,760.
Mr E contacted ReAssure as he believed that part of the annuity should increase by 5% yearly, yet 
the quote showed that it was a level income annuity.
Mr E was sent a revised quote in January 2020 which referred to a total annual income of £10,638, of 
which £3,446 (annuity 1) was a level annuity, £3,431 would be escalated by 5%, and a GMP of 
£3,760.
Mr E subsequently complained to ReAssure. In brief, he said that the GMP benefit on the policy 
should be paid in addition to the guaranteed pension detailed on the policy schedule and accrued 
bonuses. He also said ReAssure had breached anti-franking legislation.
ReAssure wrote to Mr E on 11 March 2020 to try and clarify the matter. It said the retirement benefits 
were split as follows:
GMP benefit of £3,509 at age 65, increased to £3,815 at a rate of 1% every seven weeks.
The level portion of annuity was £6,879 at age 65, increased to £7,301.
The 5% escalating portion was £3,275.52 at age 65 and had increased to £3,476.
ReAssure provided its response to Mr Es complaint in June 2020. Mr E didnt accept
ReAssures explanation and referred his complaint to us.
Mr Es complaint was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt
recommend that the complaint should succeed. The investigator said anti-franking
regulations applied to defined-benefit pension schemes. She said when the buy-out (section
32) plan was set up, the benefits ceased to be classified as defined benefits. So she was
satisfied that the anti-franking regulations didnt apply to the buy-out plan.
She said ReAssure had to provide the benefits in accordance with the policy document.
She said the policy provisions that were issued at the time that Mr E took out the plan
allowed only the surplus funds, after covering the cost of the GMP, to be used to provide a
tax-free lump sum or additional pension benefits. She said the section 32 plan had a
legislative obligation to provide the GMP at State Pension Age that the former occupational
scheme would otherwise have provided. And it could use the whole fund to provide this.
The investigator referred to the terms of the policy set out under part 3 that provided:
Part 3  Provisions (2) Benefit Variation The choice of benefits will as far as possible be
yours EXCEPT THAT (in) Guarantees (if any) set out in the Policy must first be met.
The investigator said this meant the guarantees under the plan (this being the provision of
the revalued GMP at State Pension Age) should be met first. And when this benefit had
been provided, any excess funds could be used to provide tax free cash or additional
pension benefits. She said if the fund at selected pension age was lower than the cost of
providing the GMP benefit, any shortfall would need to be met by ReAssure.
The investigator said she was satisfied that ReAssure was running the plan in accordance
with the policy documents.
The investigator also noted Mr E had said that he deferred taking his annuity as he was led
to believe that the benefits would be higher the longer he deferred it. She said this tied in
with the policy document; Part 4 of the policy, under options and (2) late retirement, said:
Where benefit payment is later than Normal Retirement Date, the benefits promised in the
policy will be increased.
The investigator said the policy documents said that the benefits would increase if deferred,
which it did by 0.5%. She said although that wasnt a significant increase it was in keeping
with the policy conditions.
The investigator said she had also considered the misinformation ReAssure had provided in
its letters. She said although she appreciated that ReAssure had provided misleading
information, she thought it had corrected itself within a reasonable timeframe and this
wouldnt have caused Mr E any loss.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings and his complaint was passed to me to
consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Leaflet provided to Mr E said, amongst other things:
Your Policy describes the benefits which were brought in your name in substitution for your
Scheme benefits. Because your Scheme was contracted-out of the state scheme which
began on 6th April 1978 and you were in contracted-out employment, the Company must
continue to protect the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) which had built up for you
under the Scheme [the actual amount is shown in the Policy].In offering this protection, the Company have guaranteed that:
(1) At state pensionable age (65 for a man and 60 for a woman) the Policy will provide a
minimum pension equal to the GMP increased, for each complete tax year between
the date your contracted-out employment stopped and state pensionable age, by
Revaluation Rate shown in the Policy,
These guarantees override any provisions, options or limits written into your Policy. My
emphasis added.
The amount of GMP shown in the Policy was £256.88. And the Revaluation Rate shown in
the policy was 8.5% a year compound. (I appreciate that there was a Memorandum
subsequently attached to the plan saying the GMP was £257.92 per year. However for
consistency with the Policy document and explanation purposes, Ive referred to the
£256.88).
The £256.88 revalued at 8.5% to age 65 was £3,495.28. When this was added to the
£1,664.28, it totals £5,159.76.
Under Part 2 of the Policy  Schedule of benefits it set out what benefits would be payable
at Normal Retirement Date. It referred to a guaranteed pension of £5,159.76 a year payable.
It also referred to the accompanying Notes which said:
(1) Pension Increases
£1,664.28 of this guaranteed pension together with any bonus pension added will be
increased, once pension payments start, by 5%. This increase will be made at every
anniversary of the date your pension payments start and will be calculated on the amount of
pension then in payment (see Provision (3)).
(2) Cash Alternative
The company will, at Normal Retirement Date, convert your guaranteed pension, including
any bonus pension, into cash. For each £10 of £1,664.28 of the guaranteed pension, and
related bonus pension, the Company will offer £130.80 cash, and for each £10 of £3,495.48
of the guaranteed pension, and related bonus pension, the Company will offer £90.00 cash.
This cash alternative will then be used in accordance with Provision (2) to provide for
example a tax-free cash sum or increased pension for you.
(3) Bonus
Pension which attracts bonus pension, shares in the profits earned on the Companys life
fund. Bonus pension is calculated on each 31st December and you will be told each year of
the amount added to your pension. This bonus pension, once added, is also guaranteed and
will become payable at the same time and in the same way as the guaranteed pension on
which it is calculated.
So when the revalued GMP at age 65 of £3,495 is added to the £1,664, it provides the
guaranteed pension referred to of £5,159 at age 65. This is consistent with Mr Es annual
statements which refer to this guaranteed pension. The statements then provide information
about the bonus added to that guaranteed pension for that year, as well as existing bonus
pension added. Ive looked at the annual statements that Mr E had provided and they have
been consistent throughout. The statement for 2016 refers to the basic with profits pension
of £5,159. An existing bonus of £4,943 and the new bonus added for 2016 as £25.80. It says
the Total yearly pension at NRD as £10,129. So this includes the GMP.
I think whats key here is that the bonus pension doesnt all attract the 5% increases in
payment. As I set out above, point 3 Bonus says that This bonus pension, once added, is
also guaranteed and will become payable at the same time and in the same way as theguaranteed pension on which it is calculated.
But the guaranteed pension of £5,159 was made up of two parts  the GMP of £3,495 (as I
say, I recognise in reality it was slightly higher), and the £1,664. Point 2 Cash Alternative
clearly shows that the bonus was allocated between the two parts of the guaranteed pension
 and related bonus.
For each £10 of £1,664.28 of the guaranteed pension, and related bonus pension, the
Company will offer £130.80 cash, and for each £10 of £3,495.48 of the guaranteed
pension, and related bonus pension, the Company will offer £90.00 cash. My emphasis
added.
The quotation sent to Mr E in 2019 referred to a total annual income of £14,552 of which
£10,791 was a level income annuity benefit, and a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of
£3,760.
The statement sent in January 2020 referred to a total annual income of £10,638 of which
£3,446 (annuity 1) was a level annuity, £3,431 would be escalated by 5%, and a GMP of
£3,760.
The reason for this difference is that the capital cost of providing an income that increases at
5% each year is significantly higher than one that doesnt increase (is level). So the capital
cost of providing a total income of £14,552 (level) in December 2019, was broadly (given it
was at a later date) equivalent to the cost of providing the total income of £10,638, where
£3,431 escalated in payment at 5% a year.
The total income in the 2020 quote is consistent with the total income figures in the
statements that Mr E has been provided. The £14,552 previously quoted was an alternative
to having some of the pension increase at 5% a year. Their capital cost would be equivalent.
As referred to by the investigator, the policy terms provided some choice, provided that any
guarantees were met first.
The choice of benefits will as far as possible be yours EXCEPT THAT (in) Guarantees (if
any) set out in the Policy must first be met.
Although Mr Es policy worked by having bonuses added to his guaranteed pension, the
section 32 plan also had an equivalent capital value. The plan had, in effect two types of
guarantee. Its overriding obligation was to provide at least the equivalent of the GMP as
described in the The Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Leaflet I set out above. And it also had
its own contractual guarantee  the £5,159.76. But once these were met there was some
flexibility to provide different forms of benefit with any capital over and above what was
required to provide the guaranteed benefits. So in effect ReAssure was giving Mr E a choice
between the higher starting pension without 5% increases, or the lower starting pension with
increases. They were of equivalent value. I dont think it did anything wrong there. In my
view those quotations were consistent with ReAssures obligations under the policy terms,
and consistent with the annual statements sent to Mr E.
Mr E has referred to anti franking regulations. However I dont think thats what ReAssure
has done here. They have paid the benefits from the plan as I have described above  they
havent franked out increases in GMP. And in any event, as explained by the investigator,
anti-franking regulations dont apply to a section 32 plan. A section 32 plan is a type of
personal pension arrangement. When any type of pension is transferred away from a
defined benefit plan to a personal pension arrangement, the rules and legislation applying to
defined benefit schemes no longer apply.
Mr E has also referred to other legislation surrounding section 32 plans and in particular the
Finance Act 1981 (section 32) which said:
(g) which provides in certain contingencies for securing benefits by means of an annuity
contract with an insurance company of the employee's choice, being a contract which hasfor its main object the provision for the employee of a life annuity in old age and is so framed
that the liabilities undertaken by the insurance company under the contract correspond with
liabilities against which the contract is intended to secure the scheme.
Mr E says when the firm took on the former occupational schemes liabilities the buy-out plan
should have corresponded with the liabilities of the contracted-out scheme.
This isnt my understanding of the legislation and I think Mr Es section 32 plan, like all
section 32 plans, have an overriding obligation to pay at least the equivalent of the GMP at
state pension age. This was described in The Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Leaflet. That
leaflet explains that the benefits were brought in Mr Es name as a substitute for his Scheme
benefits. But then also goes onto explain that the company must protect the GMP and that it
guaranteed to pay the revalued GMP at State Pension Age. It doesnt say it guaranteed to
provide the same benefits as the former scheme. And there is no such provision in the policy
documents  the policy provisions set out what it will pay at retirement date.
Whilst not exactly on point as Mr Es section 32 plan was arranged earlier, in the case
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited v The Financial Services Authority [2013] EWHC 60 (COMM) the 
judge referred to the Statutory position relating to section 32 policies. He said, amongst other things:
                  [5] Until it was replaced by the State Second Pension (or S2P), the State
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (or SERPS) was designed to provide employees with a
pension related to earnings (in addition to the basic state pension). Members of occupational
pension schemes could be contracted out of SERPS by their employer, in which case both
employer and employee paid lower National Insurance contributions, but in order to be
contracted out the occupational pension scheme had to guarantee a minimum level of
pension (a guaranteed minimum pension or GMP). Section 32 of the Finance Act 1981, by
amending s 20 of the Finance Act 1970, allowed the Board of the Inland Revenue to approve
a retirement benefits scheme that provided benefits by means of an annuity contract with an
insurance company of the employee's choice so as to afford tax reliefs under Ch II of the
1970 Act that had previously been available only to occupational pension schemes.
The Social Security Act 1985, by amending the Social Security Pensions Act 1975, extended
this regime, and enabled all members of retirement benefit schemes who left them on or
after 1 January 1986 and were entitled to preserved benefits to have their rights secured
under a policy with an insurance company and require that their scheme pay a cash
equivalent (or transfer value) to a company scheme or arrangement that met specified
conditions. But where the employer's pension scheme was contracted out of SERPS,
annuities provided under the new policy had to produce at least the applicable GMP (which,
of course, was determined not by the rules of the fund of the transferee insurance company
but by the employer's pension scheme). By s 52C(1) of the 1975 Act a transaction to which
the section applies discharges the trustees or managers of an occupational pension scheme
from their liability to provide for certain specified benefits where the specified conditions are
satisfied.
There is no mention that a section 32 has to provide anything more than the GMP.
Liabilities isnt defined, but I think refers to the former schemes liability to provide the GMP.
This is consistent with my understanding of the legislation having experience of sections 32
plans and over a number of years; they are only required to provide the equivalent of the
GMP.
If Mr E is correct about his interpretation of the legislation and the industry has been wrong
for around 40 years, this will clearly have a wider and significant impact for tens of
thousands of other policyholders. So even if I thought that Mr E may be correct and
ReAssure/pension providers have been misinterpreting the legislation since the introduction
of section 32s in the early 1980s, which isnt my view, I think the appropriate forum to decide
that matter would be in the courts.
Mr E has said he delayed taking the benefits from his policy from its Normal Retirement Date
because the options he received implied its value would increase with deferment. The
information Ive seen that was given to Mr E said that he could defer taking his benefits, butdidnt go into any details about what that would mean. I think his benefits did increase, albeit
marginally. I currently havent seen that ReAssure provided misleading information to Mr E
about deferment.
Like the investigator, I think the 11 March 2020 letter was unclear - it muddied the waters,
and I understand how it could have reinforced Mr Es view of the matter. However I think that
information has to be considered in the context that, in my view, the statements and the
quotations hed been sent over a number of years had been correct  albeit Mr E didnt
agree with ReAssures position.
Mr E has said if there was no requirement for the buy-out to completely mirror the liabilities
of the occupational scheme, then this loss of rights should have been disclosed to him at the
time of agreeing to the plan. As a result of not doing so he considers it was mis-sold. Mr E
has also referred to the issue of bonus allocation  I understand from this he means he has
suspicions about the fairness of the long period of 0.5% bonuses.
It doesnt appear that Mr E originally referred a complaint to us about being mis-sold the
section 32 or the issue of bonus allocation. So we havent investigated those issues.
ReAssure needs to be given the opportunity to consider those issues first if Mr E hasnt
raised them with it yet. If thats the case he should contact ReAssure in the first instance. If
he has then he can refer the matter to us and we will consider them.
However I think its worth saying in regards to the bonus issue, that the structure of these
types of policy where a guarantee is provided at outset and bonuses added can sometimes
hide the actual return that the policy has provided. The bonuses over the years might have
reduced significantly. But often the guarantee starting amount already assumes some
growth, and its the overall return on the amount invested that needs to be considered.
From the calculations that Mr E has provided in his submissions, I think he will likely be able
to work out the annual compounded growth that has been achieved on his policy to see how
it has actually performed. He can do this by researching the cost of buying the benefits that
he received from the plan using contemporaneous annuity rates, and compare this
capitalised cost to the original transfer value that was paid to the pension provider in 1985
(which the proposal form recorded as £4,691). The actual yearly investment return on that
transfer value has been significant.
Its clear that Mr E feels strongly that ReAssure has got it wrong. So I understand he will be
disappointed with my findings. But in my opinion, ReAssure has paid Mr E the benefits he
was entitled to as set out in the Policy document.
My provisional decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined above and by the investigator, my provisional decision
is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
I asked Mr E and ReAssure to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr E said, in summary, that he had no further points to add. He said although he didnt agree 
with all the conclusions, he was satisfied all the relevant points had been considered. He 
said he was disappointed that ReAssure had constantly misinformed him and had made a 
promise of settlement that was subsequently withdrawn. And disappointed that ReAssure 
hadnt explained exactly how the policy operated earlier, as if it had it would have saved 
everyone a significant amount of time and effort. 
ReAssure said it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision not to uphold 
the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman