DRN-1689818
The complaint
Mr T complains that his credit card provider, Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco), are 
holding him liable for payment transactions to a computer gaming company which he says 
he didn't make or authorise.
What happened
Mr Ts young son had a device for playing computer games that was set up using a gaming 
account in Mr Ts name. His son wanted to make an in-game purchase for something to 
improve game play, and Mr T agreed that he could.
Mr T used his Tesco credit card to add £20 to his gaming account Wallet, and his son made 
the in-game purchase for £19.99.
The following day Mr Ts son continued to play the computer game through Mr T's gaming 
account. He was offered more opportunities to improve the game and made seven further in-
game purchases totalling £313.92. Mr T says his son didn't realise that what he was doing 
was costing money.
Later that afternoon Mr T checked his emails and saw receipts for these transactions. He 
contacted the computer gaming company and Tesco, but neither agreed to refund him.
Mr T said his son didn't have his permission to use his credit card, and so he shouldn't be 
responsible for the debt. He also said that he didn't know his credit card details had been 
saved to his gaming account.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that by saving his card details to his 
gaming account and allowing his son to use that account without any spending safeguards in 
place, hed effectively authorised the payment transactions his son had made.
The investigator explained that payment authorisation isn't limited to transactions for which 
explicit permission has been given. He said Tesco are entitled to hold Mr T liable because 
he permitted the use of his payment instrument (his credit card) by a third party. In other 
words, by his actions, Mr T held his son out as having his authority to make payment 
transactions on the gaming account. So, the investigator concluded that Tesco were right to 
treat the transactions as authorised.
Although Mr T didn't seem to know that his credit card details had been saved to his gaming 
account, the investigator said the gaming companys terms and conditions included 
information about this.
Finally, the investigator said he didn't think there were any other grounds on which to hold 
Tesco liable.
 Mr Ts response
Mr T didn't agree with the investigators view. He said payment transactions shouldn't have 
been possible because his gaming account Wallet didn't have any funds in it. He said his 
Wallet had been bypassed when the transactions debited his credit card, and he felt this 
was morally wrong.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSR 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mr T disputes. Among other things the PSR 
2017 include the following:
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 explains:
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments.
Where credit is involved, as in this case, the PSR 2017 make provision for the Consumer 
Credit Act (the CCA) 1974 to apply in place of certain sections of the PSR. These provisions 
cant be excluded by the account terms. A consumers liability for unauthorised payments is 
therefore set out in section 83 of the CCA 1974.
Section 83 of the CCA 1974. This says that a consumer isn't liable for any loss arising from 
use of the credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the 
debtors agent.
The terms of service applicable to Mr Ts gaming account
Mr Ts gaming account terms of service explain that all gaming accounts can access the 
gaming companys store, and that anything bought can be paid for using funds in the users 
Wallet or their Approved Payment Method. The terms include the following:
16.3.3. If you have no Wallet Funds, we charge the full price to the default Approved 
Payment Method stored on your account.
The terms also say:
19. Payment methods19.1. We store your credit and debit card  details when you use them for a 
transaction. We use them for future purchases unless you delete them through your 
account settings.
At the bottom of the screen where a user enters their payment method details a notice 
reads:
Please note: these payment card details will be stored on your account and the 
system will bill this card for all future purchases when your wallet does not contain 
enough funds to complete your order.
Finally, the terms of service explain that adults with a gaming account can create Child 
Family Member Accounts on which parental controls can be applied. Parental controls 
include setting a monthly spending limit. Users of Child Family Member accounts cannot 
initiate charges to a saved payment method. Their purchases will only be successful if there 
are enough funds in the Wallet associated with the parent account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Taking into account the above relevant considerations, I think the key question here is 
whether Mr T, or someone that can be treated as acting as his agent, made the transactions 
to the gaming company.
There is no dispute that it was Mr T's young son who made these transactions whilst playing 
a computer game. And because Mr T entered his card details as an approved payment 
method on his gaming account and then allowed his son to play on the device using his 
account, I agree with the investigator that Mr T effectively held his son out as having his 
authority to make payment transactions.
Bearing in mind what the CCA 1974 says, Mr T wouldn't be liable for the transactions if 
they'd been made by a third party who wasn't in the position of his agent, such as someone 
who'd stolen his card. But that's not the situation here.
In this case Mr T entered his card details into the gaming device and allowed his son to use 
it without any of the available parental controls activated. In these circumstances I think its 
fair for Tesco to treat the payment transactions as authorised and to hold Mr T liable for 
them.
I appreciate what Mr T has said about the way the gaming company involved operates; he 
doesn't think it's right that payment transactions are possible when there are no funds in the 
user's 'Wallet'. But I can only consider and make findings about whether Mr Ts bank have 
done what they should have. And, taking everything into account, I think that Tesco have 
acted fairly and reasonably here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman