DRN-3951353
The complaint
The trustees complain that Metro Bank PLC will not refund the money Mr J lost when he fell
victim to an investment scam.
In this complaint, I am only considering the money that was lost from the trust account.
The money Mr J lost from his personal account is being considered separately.
Mr J is represented by solicitors. To make my decision easier to read, I refer only to Mr J.
I do this even where it was his representatives rather than Mr J who said or did something.
I mean no discourtesy in taking this approach.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in my 
provisional decision, so I wont repeat them in full here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr J explains that he was regularly contacted on the phone about a potential investment
opportunity. Initially he wasnt interested, but then he was told that he could shadow some
trades first to see how it worked. As Mr J was new to investing, he thought this was a good
opportunity. He says that he shadowed the trading account for three months before deciding
to put in his own funds.
Between June 2020 and March 2021, he made a number of payments and sent a total of 
£72,285.69 from the trust account. 
Initially, Mr J was pleased with how things were going. He explains that his trading account
showed a profit of over $200,000. When Mr J tried to withdraw funds, he was told that there
was a restriction fee of £20,000 to release the shares in his account. Mr J explains that he
told the broker to take the money from his profit, but the request was refused. They made an
arrangement where 75% of the restriction fee could be taken from the profits, leaving Mr J
with £5,000 to pay. But Mr J never received any of the profits. Suspecting hed been the
victim of a scam, he contacted Metro for help.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 March 2023. In it, I explained why I intended to uphold 
this complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mr J used his security credentials to
contact telephone banking to set up the disputed payments. This means that at the time he
sent the money, he authorised the payments and wanted them to be made. Although he did
not intend for the money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017
which apply to the payments he made, and the general terms and conditions of bank
accounts, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times,
I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Metro should have been on the lookout for
unusual and out of character transactions.
Metro did not identify any of the payments Mr J made as being suspicious at the time he was
making them. Ive looked carefully at the trust account statements for the six months in the
lead up to when the scam began to get a clear understanding of how the account typically
ran. Having done so, I do recognise that a trust account may run differently to a current
account and might typically be expected to have less day to day spending type activity. But
as Mr J made the payments in dispute over the phone, he had the opportunity for direct
interaction with bank staff before any money was released.
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. It would not be
possible or reasonable to expect Metro to check every payment instruction it received so I do
appreciate the commercial realties of a risk-based approach. But I still think that Metro
should have done more than it did when Mr J contacted it on 28 July 2020.
Mr J is in a demographic of society that the FCA refers to as older old. This is not to say that
Mr J is automatically vulnerable because of his age. But I would expect the bank to be
mindful that older consumers can sometimes also be vulnerable consumers and take
appropriate care, especially when the consumer makes contact with the bank because they
wish to make a transaction that is significantly out of character for them.
I have listened to a recording of the conversation that took place on 28 July 2020 when Mr J
wants to make a large payment of over £9,500. The first thing Mr J says is that he wants to
send some cash to Mauritius, so the bank is immediately aware that he wants to make an
international payment. He explains that he wanted to make the payment over the phone
because hes been to the branch counter five times and they keep asking him different
questions. This might have been entirely innocent, but straight away I think the banks
operative ought to have picked up that there were potential risk factors with the transaction.
Mr J was making a large payment, hed said hed been unable to make the payment through
the branch channel and he was looking to send money abroad.
Mr J told the banks operative that he was making this payment for the first time. He tells the
operative that the money must be sent in euros. Again, there could well have been an
innocent reason for why the transaction was not being conducted in Mauritian rupee, but the
banks operative does not really probe this any further during the call despite pointing out to
Mr J that it was unusual for a payment to this country to be made in euros rather than localcurrency.
The banks operative takes Mr J through security and then sets up the payment. There is
some confusion on the call about who Mr J is paying. He wants to pay a bank in Mauritius
but does not have an account name, which is something the banks operative picks up on.
Mr J explains there is a trade reference. The banks operative is audibly confused. She
does not understand whether the account is held in Mr Js own name or not.
Mr J says the account is in his name, but he is hesitant and unsure, answering well,
I suppose so, yeahbut the beneficiary would mean Im sending it to myself and I want to
send it to an account.
Metro: Okay what Im asking you please is you have an account with this Mauritius bank? It
is under your name?
Mr J: Ermyesit isits a Victor Global Trading Limited
Metro: Is that the name of the beneficiary then? Are you paying a company account or are
you paying your own account?
Mr J: Im paying, Im paying a company transfer agent called Victor Global Trading Limited
The banks operative proceeds to take the IBAN number and then asks Mr J for the purpose
of the payment. He says that it is a trade reference to pay for shares. The operative doesnt
ask Mr J any questions at all about the payment despite now being on notice that the
payment is being made for investment purposes. She proceeds to check that the IBAN
number is valid and then repeats the payment information back to Mr J.
At the time these payments were made, Metro was well aware of the prevalence of
investment scams and the hallmarks of how these scams operate. With this in mind, Id have
expected Metro to ask Mr J some questions about the payment aimed at disturbing an
investment scam. For example, Metro could have asked questions such as, but not limited
to, whether Mr J had been looking to invest, what research he had done, whether he had
been cold called.
Even though Mr J had made Metro aware that the purpose of the payment was linked to
shares, I dont think it should have just accepted that rationale at face value. I accept Metros
position that it is not able to make an investment decision for its customer. There are
genuine investments based abroad as well as speculative, high risk investments. But I dont
think it is unreasonable to expect Metro to have given Mr J information about common scam
risks, especially when the transaction Mr J wanted to make displayed risk factors.
From what I have heard, I consider that Mr J would have spoken openly and freely if he had
been asked direct questions. Its clear that Mr J didnt identify any red flags in the
arrangement himself, but Metro, with its far superior knowledge and experience of what an
investment scam could look and feel like, ought to have been concerned about some of the
things Mr J had said and asked him more direct questions in order to satisfy itself he was not
at risk of financial harm. I think Mr J would have told Metro that he was making an
investment via a firm based abroad and he would have explained about shadowing the
trader. I am persuaded Mr J would have been open with the bank about the transaction as at
this time he believed he was dealing with a genuine company.
Although I consider Metro ought fairly to have done more to find out more about the
payments Mr J was making, this in and of itself isnt enough for me to say that the bank
should refund all of the money Mr J went on to lose as a result of those payments beingmade. I also need to be persuaded that the banks intervention would have made a
significant difference and ultimately prevented the payments from being made. When making
that decision, I have to base my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is
more likely than not to have happened, taking into account what I know from the information
that is available to me.
Ive thought carefully about whether Metros intervention would have prevented Mr Js loss. If
the bank had asked appropriate questions, Im not persuaded Mr J would have been able to
confidently answer them without concerning Metro he might be at risk of financial harm from
fraud. I say this because there was confusion in some of the limited information that Mr J did
give and I think he would have described the key hallmarks that Metro should be on the
lookout for if hed been asked more pointedly. Had Metro given him information about what
an investment scam could look and feel like, this warning would have caused Mr J to reflect
and, on balance, would have stopped him from going ahead to make the payments. I don't
think Mr J would have proceeded and risked losing money from his inheritance if he'd been
made aware that the investment bore the hallmarks of a scam.
I have thought carefully about whether Mr J should bear some responsibility for his loss by
way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). And
overall, I dont think he should. Mr J fell victim to a highly sophisticated and well-orchestrated
scam. As with many scams of this type, the fraudsters employed an array of tactics to
persuade prospective investors that the company was legitimate. They built trust over an
extended period of time, they interacted over the phone which is very powerful at creating
false confidence and there was a trading platform that Mr J was able to access. I think a
reasonable person could similarly have been persuaded to invest in what, on the face of it,
appeared to be a good investment opportunity.
Overall, I think Metro should have done more than it did before processing the payments
Mr J wanted to make. Had it intervened as I think it ought to have done when Mr J was
making a large, out of character payment, I think its more likely than not that Mr J would
have decided not to go ahead and he would not have lost this money.
Our Investigator said that the bank should pay 8% simple interest on the funds from the date
Mr J made each payment to the date of settlement. But I don't think this is the most fair and
reasonable approach to putting Mr J back in the position he would have otherwise been in
now. I say this because the account statements I have show that the trust account was
interest bearing, so it is possible to work out how much the funds would have earnt had they
remained in the trust account. I am not persuaded that Mr Js intentions were always to
invest in something high risk and speculative. As such, interest at the underlying account
rare is fair because I think it is more likely than not that the funds would have remained here
but for the scam.
Our Investigator recommended that Metro should pay £150 compensation to Mr J to
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience the bank has caused him. Even though Mr J is
a trustee, he was still interacting with Metro as an individual. Its clear that Metros failure to
intervene when it should have done has had an impact on Mr J. Whilst much of the impact of
this situation is undoubtedly down to the actions of the fraudster, I think £150 is a fair and
reasonable way for the bank to acknowledge its contribution to the overall situation Mr J has
found himself in.
To put things right, I am proposing that Metro should now refund the £72,285.69 that was
lost to this scam from the trust account along with simple interest at the underlying trustee
account rate from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
Metro should also pay Mr J £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconveniencehe has been caused.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr Js representatives received my provisional decision and confirmed the trustees accepted 
the position.
Metro confirmed it had received my provisional decision and said it would indicate the banks 
stance in line with the deadline. 
Metro responded to say that the first principle of any scam claim was validating the claim to 
be genuine. It suggested that I had accepted this was a valid scam based on the basis of a 
single link published on the internet in 2020. The bank said this information was too vague. 
Metro said if it were provided with concrete evidence to indicate this was a scam, it would 
take that into account and asked if this service has got evidence to show this is a scam. 
It made no other comments about any of the other points I had outlined in my provisional 
decision.
As both parties have now responded and the deadline for responses has passed, I will 
consider the complaint afresh.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was surprised by what Metro said in response to my provisional decision. When the bank 
sent its file to us, it said:
Whilst I appreciate the consumer fell victim to a scam, I cannot see how Metro Bank can be 
held liable for the funds.
Although the bank did not agree that it had a responsibility to refund any of the loss, it did 
seemingly accept at the outset that Mr J had been the victim of a scam, so it is puzzling that 
the bank continues to question now whether this was a scam or not. 
Nonetheless, I do appreciate that it can be difficult to know whether a consumer has lost 
money to a bad investment or whether they have lost money to an investment scam, 
especially when the investment is based abroad. But I think there are obvious signs here 
that Mr J has fallen victim to a scam. What happened in this case bears the hallmarks of an 
investment scam.
Right at the outset, Mr J was approached from a cold call, which is a common feature of an 
investment scam. In addition to this, he was unable to withdraw any funds. He was also told 
that he needed to pay substantial fees to access his money. The level of profit Mr J had 
allegedly made was unrealistically high. 
Given that the investment firm made it impossible for Mr J to withdraw any money and now 
sems to have disappeared, I consider it unlikely that it was operating a legitimate operation. 
I am also mindful that repeatedly contacting Mr J over the phone to encourage him to invest 
is a high-pressure sales technique and a practice typically associated with scam firms. In 
addition to this, two of the companies the broker told Mr J to invest in appear on the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions Investor Alerts Portal. I consider a 
warning shared by a financial regulator to be persuasive supporting evidence for a scam. Against this backdrop, Im satisfied that, on balance, this was not a genuine investment 
opportunity and was instead a dishonest scheme intended to deceive Mr J into parting with 
his funds. 
Metro did not make any other comments, so it is not clear what the bank thinks about the 
points that I made in my provisional decision. It might be that the bank is expecting a further 
opportunity to review and provide submissions, but I have to be fair to both parties here. 
Metro has been given a fair opportunity to make its case. 
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider about 
the approach I have proposed taking to resolve Mr Js scam complaint, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Metro Bank PLC should now:
Refund the £72,285.69 that was lost to this scam from the trust account
Pay simple interest at the underlying trustee account interest rate from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Pay Mr J £150 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman