DRN-3793491
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse him the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
He brings his brings his complaint using professional representation. However, for clarity in 
what follows I will refer solely to Mr R even where submissions were made on his behalf.
What happened
Mr R says he had been looking for investment opportunities online. He wanted to build funds 
to enable the purchase of a property overseas. He found a company which purportedly 
offered investment trading (Ill refer to this company as D).
 
Mr R made contact with D. He says Ds representative sounded professional. Mr R believed 
D to be legitimate.
D helped Mr R to set up an account on its investment platform. This platform would 
supposedly allow him to make investment trades. He was told hed need to fund this new 
account with cryptocurrency.
Mr R set up an account with a well-known cryptocurrency exchange (which Ill call B). 
Between 10 February 2021 and 12 May 2021, he made four bank transfers from his 
Santander account to his account with B. He then purchased cryptocurrency and sent this 
onwards to D. Across these four payments he sent a total of £10,026.
Mr R was told his investment was doing well. But in August he attempted to withdraw funds 
and wasnt able to do so. He was unable to make contact with D.
He reported the matter as a scam to Santander. Santander didnt refund Mr R for what hed 
lost. It was unable to recover any of the payments hed made  Mr R had already used the 
funds to purchase cryptocurrency in the course of the scam.
The bank said Mr R had properly authorised each payment and it had no reason not to 
follow his instructions. That meant it wasnt liable to reimburse him. It also pointed out that it 
had shown him a pop-up warning message relevant to investment scams, recommending he 
should check the name of the company on the FCA website, which Mr R hadnt done.
Mr R didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. He 
had been in a difficult situation suffering from serious ill-health. Hed been on medication at 
the time of the scam which had led to drowsiness. The impact of what had happened had 
been significant.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. The Investigator didnt think Santander had 
treated Mr R unfairly. The Investigator noted that Mr R was transferring money from his 
Santander account to an account hed set up in his own name with B, and hed set that 
account up with the intent of facilitating onward payments to D. That meant the APP scam 
reimbursement code (the Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt 
apply, because the payment from Santander hadnt gone directly to another person.
The Investigator also didnt think it would have been apparent to Santander that the 
payments Mr R was making were connected to a scam, nor that they were significantly 
unusual for his account. So, the Investigator didnt think Santander could reasonably have 
been expected to intervene or take steps to warn Mr R more than it had. The Investigator 
didnt find Santander at fault and didnt require it to refund Mr Rs losses.
Mr R didnt accept our Investigators view. His complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr R. I can understand entirely why he feels his 
money should be returned to him. Hes been the victim of a crime here, and hes explained 
the significant impact that crime has had on him. I dont underestimate how difficult a 
situation this has left him in. He was deceived by a scam that led him to believe he was 
investing his money and making good profits. Mr Rs now been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result. So, I can appreciate why hed now like Santander to refund him 
for what he lost, and why he wants the bank to take the blame for not stopping him at the 
time.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr R. For me to 
say Santander is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way.
A voluntary code does exist to provide additional protection against APP scams (the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Santander is a signatory to that 
voluntary code. But payments made to a customers own accounts wont normally be 
covered by the CRM Code. 
That matters because the account to which Mr R sent money from his Santander account 
was an account registered in his own name at B. Hed set this up and knew it was being 
used as a route to move his funds to D. Based on what I have seen, I find that the CRM 
Code provisions dont apply to Mr Rs complaint about Santander.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Santander should have 
been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
What I need to consider here is whether the evidence supports a finding that Santander 
ought to have had significant concerns these transactions were indicative of possible 
financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have overcome its 
primary obligation to carry out Mr Rs payment instructions.
Mr R was sending the payments an account or e-money wallet he held in his own name and 
which he had control over. Nonetheless, I consider that in some circumstances a payment 
request could reasonably have prompted sufficient concern from Santander that, as a matter 
of good industry practice, Id have expected the bank to intervene before processing the 
instruction. But I think the perceived risk of such an instruction would be lower than a 
payment to an account held by a third party  all else being equal. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Santander did enough given the specific circumstances here. 
Santander says it provided a general investment scam warning message, suggesting Mr R 
should check the details of the company he was investing with on the FCAs website (for 
which it provided a link). Of course, Santander could have provided an even stronger 
warning about the risks. But I cant fairly hold Santander liable for not providing Mr R with a 
stronger warning when there was no obligation on the bank to do so for transactions of this 
nature. 
While Ive carefully considered all the evidence and points raised by Mr R, and despite my 
natural sympathy for the impact this scam has had on him, I dont consider these payments, 
were so significantly unusual that I could find Santander at fault for not having taken further 
steps than it did.
I say that having reviewed the account history Santander has provided covering the previous 
twelve-month period. While the initial payment amounts of £3,000 were larger than prior 
payments, I dont find they were so significantly larger that Santander ought to have been 
concerned enough to think Mr R was about to fall victim to a scam. I find it relevant here that 
about a month elapsed between each payment  this wasnt a sequence of payments made 
in rapid succession. On the face of things these payments might equally have been simply 
investments in cryptocurrency, and unconnected to a fraud or scam.
And while Mr R has since explained about his health and circumstances at the time of the 
scam, nothing Ive seen suggests that Santander would have been aware of this at that point 
(or ought reasonably to have been aware).
All things considered I dont think these payment requests were so remarkable or should 
otherwise have caused sufficient concern that I could find Santander at fault for not blocking 
them and intervening rather than fulfilling its primary obligation to carry out Mr Rs 
instructions without delay.Further, I am satisfied that when Santander was made aware of the scam, it took the 
appropriate actions. This included its attempts to recover Mr Rs lost funds  however, Mr R 
had already moved these on from B in the course of the scam, so recovery was not possible.
Overall, I dont find Santander was at fault here. I cant fairly require Santander to refund 
these payments.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr R and 
I am sorry he has lost out. As Ive said earlier, Mr R was the victim of a crime and a cruel 
scam carefully designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here 
adds up to a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont find Santander was at fault 
in making these payments in line with the instructions he gave the bank at the time, and I 
dont find the bank liable to refund him for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman