DRN-3230201
The complaint
Mr V complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A declined his claim against his travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr V applied online for an annual, multi-trip travel insurance 
policy. Mr M chose the Premium package. The policy started on 27 November 2019. 
I understand that Mr V went on a trip on 30 November 2019 and that his intended return 
date was 30 April 2020. There was severe travel disruption arising out of Covid-19 and 
Mr V couldnt return as planned. In May 2020 he contacted Mapfre in order to make a 
claim against his policy. 
Mapfre declined Mr Vs claim. It said that the policy provides cover for trips no longer 
than 45 days and that Mr Vs trip exceeded that limit. Mapfre also said that Mr V would 
have seen the limit when he purchased the policy. 
Mr V says that he didnt receive any policy documentation from Mapfre, so he wasnt 
aware of this limit. Mr V wants Mapfre to reimburse his additional expenses. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr V unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. Mr V didnt agree. He said, 
in summary, that Mapfre didnt do enough to provide him with policy documentation and 
hadnt acted within the spirit of the policy. He said that he was out of pocket due to 
border closures in response to Covid-19. Mr V asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:  
Key information, conditions and exclusions
[]
Annual multi-trip policies
This gives you cover to travel as many times as you like during any one period of insurance 
as long as no single trip lasts longer than [] 45 days if you have chosen Premium [].
The relevant part of the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says:
! Are there any restrictions on cover?
[]
! You can travel as many times as you like during any one period of insurance, as long as no 
single trip lasts longer than 45 days.[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
As Ive set out above, Mr Vs policy excludes cover for trips longer than 45 days. Its 
common ground that Mr Vs trip which led to his claim was for more than 45 days at 
the outset. I think Mapfre is entitled to rely on the exclusion to which its referred 
here, and I dont think it treated Mr V unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
Mr V says that he wasnt aware of the trip limit. Mapfre has provided documentation 
showing Mr Vs consumer journey when he bought the policy. It shows that the trip 
limit was set out on-line at the time of purchase. 
Mr V says that he didnt receive relevant documentation from Mapfre. On balance, 
Im satisfied that Mapfre sent relevant documentation  the policy terms and the IPID 
- to Mr V by e-mail. It used the e-mail address Mr V provided which, unfortunately, 
contained an error. I dont think that Mapfre was at fault in failing to provide Mr V with 
documentation about the policy. In any event, the documentation was available to   
Mr V via the customer portal.      
Considering everything, I dont think that Mapfre treated Mr V unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman