DRN-3044822
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have been unable to locate a 
Millennium Maximum Investment Plan he opened in 1987.  
Mr P brought his complaint to this service using a representative but for ease I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mr P.
What happened
Whilst clearing out his attic in 2019 Mr P found some documents about a Millennium 
Maximum Investment Plan he had taken out in 1987 with a predecessor business of Aviva. 
Mr P asked Aviva to trace the account and make payment as he didnt remember 
surrendering the plan or receiving any payment. Aviva checked their systems and explained 
that only record they could find was that the plan was surrendered in 1990, but they werent 
able to confirm the surrender amount. Aviva apologised for the time it took them to look into 
finding the details of Mr Ps plan and offered £400 for the inconvenience and frustration 
caused by the delays. Mr P did not accept the offer. 
Remaining unsatisfied with the answer from Aviva Mr P brought his complaint to our service 
where one of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought Aviva had provided 
as much information as possible and were satisfied there was no further information to share 
about the plan. Mr P disagreed with this saying the assertions about the plan being 
surrendered were inaccurate. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a lot of information about why he is unhappy with Avivas investigation 
into the whereabouts of his plan. I want to assure Mr P that Ive read and considered 
everything hes provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised the information 
which reflects the informal nature of this service.
The plan was taken out in 1987, over 30 years ago, so its no surprise theres limited 
documentation from the time other than what Mr P found in his attic. In situations like this I 
must come to a decision on the balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to 
have happened.
Aviva have searched their systems using the information given to them by Mr P and theyve 
provided screenshots which they say show the plan was surrendered in 1990. Having 
considered these screen shots, and the information provided by Aviva Im persuaded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that is what happened. Aviva are unable to say how this happened 
or the amount of the surrender value. I find neither of these things unusual considering some 
30 years have passed, though I acknowledge its frustrating for Mr P not to be given more 
information.  
Mr P has suggested that the plan was live in 2009 when it was rebranded to Aviva from a 
predecessor business, however Im not persuaded thats the case. There was a record of the 
plan on the systems of the predecessor business and thats why Aviva was able to find a 
record of it being surrendered in 1990. But Ive seen nothing to be persuaded that the plan 
remained open in 2009.
I know Mr P will be disappointed in my decision and I can understand why he feels that way. 
However Ive seen no documentation to show that the plan remained open for any length of 
time, and Im persuaded by the information provided by Aviva that it was closed in 1990. 
Looking at what happened while Aviva was investigating the whereabouts of the plan, Im 
happy that £400 is a fair and reasonable offer for the delays and frustration caused. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
plan was surrendered in 1990. Thats not to say that Mr P hasnt been affected by what 
happened; he clearly has. But I think Aviva has searched their records as best as they can 
and provided an explanation as much as the evidence allows, so I wont be asking them to 
do anything more. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr P £400 for the inconvenience caused for 
frustrations in the delays in answering his query about the whereabouts of the plan.
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle this 
complaint and I think this fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr P £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman