DRN-4215253
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a cash withdrawal 
that they didnt make from their account.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M dispute a cash machine withdrawal of £500 made in the early hours of 1 
February 2023 using Mrs Ms card details. They explain that they were at home asleep and 
that the card was still in Mrs Ms possession. 
Nationwide said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that the withdrawal was made 
using the genuine card and PIN. Mrs M said that the card hadnt left her possession. And 
this eliminated the possibility of the card details being compromised. Nationwide said that it 
knew that they had reported the matter to police, and it could look at any new information 
provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the information 
was that the chip on the genuine card had been read and the PIN entered. The last time the 
PIN had been used with the card was over 50 days earlier. Mr M and Mrs M said that there 
was no third party who had access to her card that could have taken and replaced it. Mrs M 
said she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone or written it down. There were no further 
attempts to use the card.
Mr M and Mrs M said that they didnt agree and wanted their complaint to be reviewed.    
Mrs M had visited the bank involved and asked for CCTV but was told to contact police. She 
had reported the matter to police and asked that CCTV be obtained. This happened late at 
night, they were at home at the time and the card was in her possession.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mrs M authorised the payment. Thats more than the payment being authenticated 
but would require her to consent to it. If she didnt authorise it then generally Nationwide 
wouldnt be able to hold her responsible for it. The payment resulted in an overdraft. And so, 
where credit is involved, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Im satisfied from the information provided that the payment was authenticated with Mrs Ms 
card details and the PIN. I appreciate that Mrs M believes the card must have been cloned. 
Thats not impossible but we havent seen cases where the actual chip on a card, needed for 
this type of withdrawal, has been cloned for everyday use. In any event Mrs M didnt use her 
card frequently for there to be any recent time when her details could have been 
compromised in some way. The last previous record I can see of both the chip on the card 
being read and the PIN entered was on 8 December 2022.
The first PIN entered at the cash machine on 1 February 2023 was incorrect. But the next 
entered within 10 seconds was correct. It would be unlikely that a fraudster could guess a 
PIN even in two attempts. The amount requested was £500 which took the account into 
overdraft. But Nationwide has provided information to show that there were still available 
funds through the overdraft limit on the account. There was no other attempted use of the 
card from the time of the withdrawal at 01:27. And Mr M and Mrs M reported what happened 
at about 17:30 that day. 
I appreciate Mr M and Mrs M have given consistent testimony that they were home at the 
time. And that the card was in Mrs Ms bag in the kitchen and remained in her possession. 
There was no third party known to them with access to their home they say who could or 
would have taken and used the card. And an unknown third party who somehow had 
possession of the card would have been very unlikely to have returned it after use risking 
detection. The cash machine wasnt the closest to them and was some distance away.     
Mrs M says she didnt write down her PIN or tell anyone else what it was. There is no third-
party CCTV available, and it would be a matter for the authorities to obtain this before it was 
deleted. And CCTV often doesnt help resolve whether a person making the withdrawal was 
acting with authority or not.
Ive balanced all these factors in coming to my decision. There is no identified point of 
compromise for the card or PIN. A fraudster in possession of the card and PIN would be 
unlikely to return it and also would likely have attempted to take as much money as quickly 
as possible. I know Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed when I say that I find it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to hold them responsible for the withdrawal in all these 
circumstances. It has said it will co-operate with any police investigation as Id expect. So, 
Im afraid I wont be asking it to do anything further about this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman