DRN-3264915
The complaint
Ms M and Mr O complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) didnt provide them with the 
service it should have when they applied to open a joint savings account.
What happened
Ms M and Mr O completed a paper application to open a joint savings account and posted 
this to the YBS branch. Ms M says the application included personal details such as names, 
employment, and contact details. Ms M then received a call from a third party who had 
incorrectly received her application and a rejection letter from YBS. The third party sent the 
letters to Ms M who raised this with YBS. YBS initially offered her £50 compensation but this 
was then increased to £300. Ms M says that this amount doesnt compensate for the distress 
she was caused and her lost trust in YBS.
YBS issued final response letter in July 2021. It acknowledged its mistake and the said the 
data breach had been reported. It apologised for this issue and offered to pay £300 
compensation (£10 for calls £40 for time spent and £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused) to resolve this complaint. 
Our investigator said that data protection breaches are a matter for Information 
Commissioners Office, (ICO) but that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider the 
impact any such issue has had on the consumer. In this case she thought the total offer of 
£300 compensation made by YBS was fair and reasonable. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that as a result of her experience 
with YBS she didnt invest in her savings account opened in 2021-2022 and lost out on 
interest. She said she wasnt confident with how YBS had dealt with the issue or reassured it 
had learnt lessons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS accepted that a mistake was made and that due to human error Ms M and Mr Os 
application form for a regular savings account along with a letter was returned to a third party 
who then made contact with Ms M and Mr O. The application form included Ms M and 
Mr Os personal details and so I can understand why they were concerned about this. YBS 
confirmed that a data breach was reported.
As our investigator noted, it is the ICO which regulates compliance to data protection laws in 
the UK and Ms M can raise a complaint with ICO if she wishes. Our role is to consider what 
the impact of the issue has been on Ms M and Mr O and to ensure that they are put back in 
the position they would have been had the mistake not been made and, where appropriate 
compensation is provided. 
Ms M has noted that due to the issue with the forms she lost faith in YBS and has missed 
out on interest because of this. The regular savings account Ms M and Mr O applied for was 
withdrawn in July 2021 but due to their application being made before this date, YBS opened 
the account in August 2021. I think this is reasonable given the issues Ms M and Mr O. No 
funds were paid into the account and while I understand why Ms M and Mr O may have 
decided not to make use of the account, this was their choice and I do not find that YBS did 
anything wrong by the closing the account after 40 days. I also do not find I can say any lost 
interest from this period is an issue for YBS as it was Ms M and Mr Os choice not to put 
funds into the account.
While I do not find I have evidence to show that this issue caused Ms M and Mr O any 
financial loss, it is clear that it caused distress and inconvenience. I particularly note the 
comments Ms M has made about the importance of data security given her profession and I 
can appreciate why the call from a third party who received her forms caused anxiety and 
upset. With this in mind I have considered whether I think the £300 compensation offered by 
YBS is reasonable in this case.
YBS has provided call recordings on which this issue has been discussed which I have 
listened to. While I understand that Ms M has lost confidence in YBS and feels that her 
concerns havent been taken seriously enough, I think that YBS did act on the issue raised. 
It acknowledged the issue, carried out an investigation, apologised and took action to 
address this by reporting the breach and offering compensation. 
So, while I understand that Ms M doesnt think the compensation offered is enough to reflect 
the distress caused, and is concerned that not enough has been done in response to the 
breach, in this case I find the actions taken and amount of compensation are reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Yorkshire Building Society should pay Ms M and Mr O £300 
compensation as it has offered (if this hasnt already happened) to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman