DRN-3062247
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made to Capital One (Europe) plc Capital
One for goods he purchased using his credit card.
What happened
Mr H says he bought some phones from an online outlet (the website) which turned out to
be faulty. However, the supplier wont let him return these for a refund.
Mr H contacted Capital One to help him with this. It looked at the matter under Section 75 of
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), but it would not refund him. In summary, it said
there was not the correct debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between the parties for there
to be a valid Section 75 claim.
Our investigator took a look at the case and agreed there was not a valid Section 75 claim
because the credit card payment did not go directly to the supplier of the goods but to the
website which is a wholesale marketplace. They said this means Mr H cannot raise a
Section 75 claim for breach of contract by the website. The investigator also looked into
chargeback and agreed Capital One acted fairly by not raising one as there were not valid
grounds to do so.
Mr H was not happy with the response. In summary he says:
he has had a previous dispute against the website and Capital One looked at this 
under Section 75 so it should have done so here
he does not think the website is just a payment processor  they have more 
responsibility than that as they have a website advertising all sorts of goods
Capital One should have looked into the matter under chargeback, the phones were 
not as described, they were fake and had signal problems
The matter was passed to me to look into.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 18 August 2021. In this I said:
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr H to hold Capital One responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using his credit card. However,
there are certain technical requirements that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be
valid. This might be in relation to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the
transaction, or the way the payment was made.
It is not for me to determine the outcome of a Section 75 claim. That is something which
Capital One has considered. However, in deciding what is fair and reasonable I can look at
the actions of Capital One with regard to any relevant law (in this case Section 75).
In order to decide what is fair and reasonable I have considered the technical requirements
that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be valid. These are set out in the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those requirements is for a debtor-creditor-supplier
agreement between the parties to the transaction.
One of the reasons for doing a provisional decision here is to clarify the position regarding
the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
I agree with Mr H that the website does not simply process payments or act as a digital
wallet. The website is an online marketplace and Mr H paid it directly. I also agree that Mr H
has a contract with the website. However, this contract is limited. The website terms and
conditions (which I will have our investigator provide Mr H) are very clear that it acts only as
a selling platform to facilitate transactions between buyers and third parties which have
goods for sale. It says it is not the supplier of goods and services.
I have looked carefully at how the website operates and it does indeed appear to function as
an online marketplace for third party sellers to advertise goods to registered members. It
provides a dispute resolution service and loyalty scheme, but I am satisfied it doesnt
actually supply the goods. So it follows that it isnt contractually responsible for the quality of
those goods.
In this case Mr H is unhappy with the quality of the goods. And contractually it is the third
party seller (the supplier) but not the website which is responsible for that. However,
although we have a debtor (Mr H) and a creditor (Capital One) the supplier didnt receive the
credit card payment. Which means for the purposes of Section 75 Mr H doesnt have a claim
against Capital One for a breach of contract by the supplier in respect of the quality of the
goods. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say it should have done
more in respect of his Section 75 claim about the issues with the phones.
Chargeback
I have also done a provisional decision to clarify the position as to chargeback.
While chargeback is not a legal right, it is a means where a bank might be able to recover
money for its customer. I would expect Capital One to have used the chargeback process
where it was reasonable to do so. I have considered what it did in this case.
From what I understand from Mr Hs signed dispute form the two transactions that relate to
the four mobile phones he is unhappy about are for £809.27 on the 2/4/19 and £217.94 on
the 30/3/19.
What Capital One did here in respect of chargeback isnt entirely clear. However, from what 
I can gather from the information I have:
it raised a partial chargeback in respect of £290 of the £809.27 for a part of the 
order which Mr H says did not arrive at all. However the merchant appears to 
have defended this with proof of postage and receipt; and
it did not raise a chargeback for the remaining amounts as it says there was no 
valid reason code to do so
From what I can see it appears that Capital One took reasonable steps to recover Mr Hs
money in relation to the goods which he says did not arrive. And Mr H does not appear to be
disputing this. So I have turned to the central matter in contention which is whether Capital
One was right in not raising a chargeback for the remaining amount.Mr Hs reason for disputing the remaining amount appears to be in relation to the quality of
the phones. He indicated to Capital One at the time that he was unhappy with the battery
life, signal quality and responsiveness of the touchscreen. On his dispute form he says the
phones are bad quality and looked good on the website. I dont see where he originally
told Capital One they were fake  but I note he has mentioned this to our service.
Capital One appear to be claiming there is no valid chargeback reason as Mr H referred to
the phones being of poor quality but did not specifically say they were not as described or
faulty. I dont think Capital One is reasonable in saying there wasnt a valid chargeback
reason in this case. Poor quality can of course mean that goods are defective or not as
described, and I think Capital One should have recognised this and considered raising a
chargeback under the reason code Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described or
Defective.
I have considered what the scheme rules say about what Mr H needed to provide to allow
Capital One to raise a chargeback. He needed to provide sufficient evidence in order for the
parties to understand the nature of the dispute. The evidence also needed to show that he
contacted the merchant in an attempt to resolve the dispute. However, what I have seen isnt
entirely clear. I note that:
the prices in the order details Mr H sent in for the four phones do not appear to add 
up to the transaction amounts he is disputing on the dispute form
the copy of the contact with the marketplace via its dispute resolution service isnt 
clearly in relation to the order for these phones (the order number is different to those 
numbers on the shipping details produced in relation to the not received dispute) and 
also appears incomplete (with a lack of clarity as to why the dispute was closed and 
whether a partial refund was issued)
So although there is a valid reason code for defective goods, and despite Capital Ones
apparent attempts to clarify some things there appears to be an overall lack of clarity about
the nature of the dispute and the attempts to resolve it prior. The situation likely isnt helped
as Mr H appears to have had several purchases and disputes in respect of the
marketplace. Due to the lack of clarity I am not entirely persuaded that Capital One should
have raised a chargeback at the time. But even if I accepted that they could have tried one
(and it is often good practice to at least attempt one) I am not persuaded it would have likely
succeeded based on the evidence I have seen and heard (I have also listened to calls Mr H
had with Capital One to work out what he told them about the problems he was having with
the goods).
Although the things Mr H is unhappy with might indicate hardware faults they are also things
which might not necessarily be defects. For example some phones just have shorter battery
life or weaker aerials or less responsive screen technology than others. Mr H provides very
little detail about the extent of the problems he is having and does not support his claims
with relevant adverts/point of sale claims, photographic/video or third party evidence. So I
dont think the chargeback is particularly strong based on what I have seen.
I acknowledge that Mr H has indicated he had other disputes succeed against the
marketplace. However, that isnt clear to me from what I have seen. But as they relate to
separate transactions it doesnt necessarily mean this dispute would have succeeded too.To summarise, I dont think Capital One has acted unfairly in declining Mr Hs Section 75
claim. Nor do I think that it has likely caused him to lose out in respect of the way it handled
the chargeback. And although he has indicated Capital One helped him get his money back
in respect of other transactions I am looking at the individual circumstances in this case. So
all things considered I dont think that Capital One should be asked to refund what Mr C has
paid on his card for these transactions.
I asked the parties for a response. Mr H did not respond. Capital One confirmed that it had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have not added anything that persuades me to change the 
outcome of my provisional decision. Therefore, I am not going to uphold this complaint for 
the same reasons given in said provisional decision (as copied above).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman