DRN-2174922
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given inappropriate advice by Wesleyan Financial Services 
Ltd (WFS) to pay a lump sum of £25,000 into his Additional Voluntary Contribution plan 
(AVC), to get 20% tax relief on the payment made.
What happened
Mr S and his partner met with a WFS adviser on 18  March 2018. WFS said the purpose of 
this meeting was for Mr S and his partner to make some investment choices regarding their 
Cash ISAs. Mr S says the purpose of this meeting was to discuss his and his partners 
retirement planning. 
Following this meeting, Mr S and his partner completed a transfer form and moved their 
existing ISAs to the WFS UK balanced ISA portfolio. The ISA forms were completed and 
signed on 22 March 2018.
Mr S said the bulk of the meeting on 18 March 2018 was about their pensions. He said 
their Wesleyan financial adviser (FA) spoke to them about investing in Mr Ss AVC. Mr S 
said they also talked about this with adviser after that meeting.
Mr S said he was advised by the Wesleyan FA to pay a lump sum into his AVC scheme 
and believed he would get 20% tax relief. 
Mr S said he went on to pay a lump sum of £25,000 into his Prudential pension plan based 
on the advice given and received £2,800 back in tax relief, instead of the £5,000 he was 
expecting. Mr S wants Wesleyan to pay him the balance of the tax relief, he says hes 
missed out on, which he says is £2,200. 
Mr S says he and his partner have spent a considerable amount of time liaising with the AVC 
provider and HMRC about the tax relief. 
Mr S said afterwards, the FA later visited him and his partner at their home. He said the FA 
apologised for the advice he gave them.
WFS issued its final response in October 2019. It did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It 
said it made it clear at the time that that it could not advise or assist in relation to the 
AVC and so was not upholding this complaint. It said it referred Mr S on to HMRC and 
to the AVC provider regarding his pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She concluded 
that, given the difference in recollections, she couldnt say exactly what was discussed 
between Mr S, his partner and the WFS FA at the time.
She didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt satisfied that there was enough evidence to 
show that WFS advised Mr S to pay the lump sum into his AVC pension, or that it told him 
he would be eligible to get 20% tax relief on the payment.  She said the evidence shows 
that the FA had a conversation with Mr S and his partner about Mr Ss AVC, but there 
wasnt enough evidence to suggest that the business went beyond this and provided Mr S 
with advice. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He said that the FAs recount of events had been given more weight than his 
and his partners. And that WFS had a vested interest in only recording the information that 
suited its interests. He said WFSs behavior supported Mr S and his partners recount of 
events. Mr S pointed out that he hadnt paid into his AVC for over 10 years before the FAs 
visit. Mr S said he would be interested to see if other clients felt they had been misadvised in 
the same way.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ss complaint has been referred to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and am not 
going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The questions to be determined here are whether WFS gave Mr S unsuitable advice to 
make a lump sum investment into his Teachers Pension Scheme AVC or whether it 
gave him information that was not clear, fair or misleading about the lump sum 
investment.
unsuitable advice
Our investigator asked WFS for details of what was discussed at the meeting on 18 March 
2018. WFS couldnt provide a note of that meeting. It said it did not hold any notes from 
this meeting, any other meetings with Mr S and his partner, or any suitability reports. It 
provided copies of the ISA applications and transfer forms from March 2018. It produced a 
note from the FA dated 26 July 2019, summarising his recollection of what was discussed 
at the time of events.
FAs recollection of what was discussed
In summary, the FA said he had a discussion with Mr S and his partner around ISAs and 
the tax benefits of pensions. He said he explained to Mr S that it was possible to pay a lump 
sum into his pension, instead of paying his £1000 per month contribution. He explained that 
there were restrictions on the amount that could be paid into a pension. 
He said, Mr S and his partner were given a copy of WFS SSCD and were aware of the 
services and products recommended, He said Mr S and his partner knew WFS were not 
independent financial advisers.
He said he explained to Mr S that he needed to get the pension input statement from the 
Teachers Pension Scheme to work out how much he could pay into his AVC to ensure he 
did not break any tax rules. He said he showed Mr S the AVC website on a laptop, which 
said to contact them about lump sum investments. He said he also explained that he did not 
advise on Prudential products and was not an accountant who specialised in taxation.
Mr Ss recollection of what was discussedMr S said the FA told them there were limits on the amount Mr S would be permitted to pay 
into his pension in any one year. He said he did not discuss the fact that there were limits to 
the amount of tax relief he could get on the amount paid in. Mr S considered this to be a 
key thing, given that the FA was advising Mr S on the lump sum payment into his AVC.  
Mr S said he knew WFS would not advise on other companies ISAs. But its literature 
specifically said it could advise on teachers pensions. Mr S said his pension schemes were 
his occupational Teachers Pension Scheme and his Teachers AVC Scheme. 
Mr S said, the main advice he received was about his pensions. And that he and his partner 
paid an ongoing fee for advice as part of the ISA that they took out with WFS. He said they 
did this to get advice on the AVC. Mr S said he did get advice on the AVC, but stopped 
paying for ongoing advice once the lump sum was paid in because this was what they 
wanted the advice in relation to. 
Mr S said he asked the FA if the fee would cover the advice about the AVC, and he was 
told it would. Mr S queried why he or anyone else would pay for ongoing advice about 
future possible WFS products. Mr S said likely that would come for free. Mr S said it 
appeared that WFS held themselves out as experts on teachers pensions, to sell their own 
products. Later disclaiming any responsibility for that advice, on the basis that they were 
not permitted to give that advice 
Mr S said the only advice he received was to speak to the provider about the amount he 
was allowed to pay in. There was no advice about contacting HMRC. This only became 
necessary when the tax rebate expected was not forthcoming. 
WFS literature
WFSs terms and conditions state:
Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd will offer you advice on a limited number of products 
provided either by one provider or a limited number of providers. This is known as 
restricted advice.
Ive also seen a letter dated July 2019, so after the advice given here, from WFS to Mr S. 
The letter referred to providing specialist financial advice to certain professions. WFS said 
whilst it does profess to be an expert in the Teachers Pension Scheme and the associated 
benefits, its SCDD document made it clear that it is restricted in the advice it can give. 
WFS said it is unable to provide advice on Teachers AVCs. WFS added that the FA gave 
factual and generic statements about the AVC, not advice. 
Mr S disagreed and said that advice was provided to invest in the AVC, due to the tax relief 
available.
Contact with AVC Provider
Our investigator contacted the AVC Provider, Prudential about the lump sum Mr S paid into 
his AVC in 2018. The Provider said there was nothing on its records to show that WFS 
acted as the advice agent when Mr S paid a lump sum into his AVC. 
Mr S said he phoned to check the lump sum payment he intended to make was allowed 
and the provider said it was. Mr S said he did not discuss the tax relief available, as he was 
not told by the FA that this would be an issue. Mr F said the only barrier the FA mentioned was the amount that could be paid in each year.
Looking at all the circumstances here, and taking into account what everyone recalls from 
the discussions, I think probably the FA made it clear to Mr S that it was his responsibility to 
liaise with the AVC about any lump sum payment into that scheme. And given that the FA 
cant have known what the outcome of a discussion with the AVC scheme provider would 
be, I dont think I can fairly say that the FA shouldve explained to Mr S the tax 
consequences of such a payment in. 
Further, I cant see that a specific fee was paid for providing advice in relation to the AVC, 
which I wouldve expected to see if advice had been provided. 
The fee Mr S refers to relates to the ISAs, not the AVC and is separate. This information 
doesnt lead me to the conclusion that more likely than not advice was provided in relation 
to the lump sum payment. I think it more likley the FA made it clear that he could not give 
advice in relation to his AVC.
information that was clear, fair and not misleading
I accept, as WFS does, that the FA did give Mr S some information about making payment 
into his AVC. As Ive said, I think the FA told Mr S he must contact the provider to discuss 
payment into the scheme, and that there was a limit on the amount that could be paid in 
each year. 
It seems based on what Mr S is saying there was some discussion about tax relief, but the 
FA didnt specifically advise him on the amount of tax relief he would get. But, Mr S  
expected the FA to advise him on the tax consequences, given that as he saw it, the FA 
was providing him with advice.
So, I think this is the crux of the issue. Mr S was clearly expecting more from the FA, based 
on the fact that he believed he was providing him with advice. He expected advice about 
the available tax relief. Ive concluded that the FA did not provide Mr S with advice about 
the lump sum payment, instead referring him to the provider. I cant say whether he also 
referred him to HMRC, but even if he didnt, given his limited role in relation to the lump 
sum payment, I cant see that the FA provided Mr S with unclear, misleading or unfair 
information about what he was required to do before making a lump sum payment. He 
referred him to the provider, and highlighted the relevant part on the providers website.
So, I cant see that Mr S has lost out because of shortcomings in the information he was 
provided with by the FA. I dont think the FA couldve reasonably given Mr S tax advice in 
the circumstances outlined.
So, overall, whilst I appreciate Mr S and his partners strength of feeling about this situation 
and understand that Mr S clearly believed he was being advised to the make the lump sum 
payment by the FA, based on what is available, I cant fairly uphold this complaint and 
make no award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December  2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman