DRN-4414509
Complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued allowing him to 
use an overdraft even when he was hardcore borrowing.
Background
When HSBC reviewed Mr Ws complaint it agreed that it shouldnt have increased Mr Ws 
overdraft limit from £2,000.00 in June 2019. So it agreed to refund all of the interest it 
charged on balances over £2,000.00 from June 2019 to January 2023. Mr W remained 
dissatisfied at this offer, didnt accept it and instead referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ws complaint and she thought that HSBC should have 
realised that Mr Ws overdraft had already become unsustainable for him by July 2017. And 
it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ws overdraft from this 
point. 
HSBC disagreed with the investigators assessment. It nonetheless agreed to refund all of 
the interest Mr W paid from June 2019 to January 2023, rather than just the extra that was 
paid as a result of the unfair limit increases. 
As this wasnt in line with the investigators recommendations and Mr W was of the view he 
was entitled to more of the charges he paid should be refunded, the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from July 2017. While Mr W might 
not have got in touch to confirm this, nonetheless by this point, it was evident Mr Ws 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that Mr W had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And the transactions taking place on Mr Ws 
account indicated that there was little prospect of him being able to repay what he owed 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
Indeed, Mr Ws account only ever saw a credit balance as a result of gambling winnings. So 
it seems to me that repaying this overdraft was entirely based on Mr Ws success as a 
gambler. And this wasnt a realistic, credible or even sustainable repayment strategy.
Ive seen that HSBC is relying on having sent Mr W a number of letters from 2019 onwards 
(23 letters up until 2020) telling him that using an overdraft in the way that he was expensive 
and that he should get in contact if he was experiencing difficulty. It then sent further letters  
and communications from 2021 onwards as a result of the regulators repeat overdraft use 
rules. HSBC says that Mr W should have reached out if he was struggling.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said. But the mere fact that it felt the need to send Mr W 
so many letters within such a period means that it recognised the problem with Mr Ws 
overdraft usage. I dont think that simply sending further letters in the absence of Mr W 
reaching out means that it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to ignore what was unfolding.
Furthermore, I also find it somewhat odd that HSBC is relying on letters sent during the 
period it has agreed to refund some of the interest, fees and charges added to Mr Ws 
account for, to argue that it acted fairly and reasonably earlier. Ive seen HSBCs argument 
that its offer has been made on a gesture of goodwill basis. 
That might be the case for the additional interest refund proposed in response to the 
investigators assessment but given the final response acknowledges that HSBC shouldnt 
have increased Mr Ws overdraft limit in the way that it did, in June 2019, I dont accept that 
HSBC considers that it didnt do anything wrong.      
So Im not persuaded by HSBCs arguments that the letters it sent mean that its offer is fair 
and reasonable, or that Mr Ws failure to respond to the letters meant that he wasnt 
experiencing difficulty and struggling to clear his indebtedness. 
And Im satisfied that HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms 
and treated Mr W with forbearance by July 2017, rather than going on to increase the limit 
on the overdraft. As HSBC didnt react to Mr Ws account usage and instead increased       
Mr Ws overdraft limit without having regard to his account activity, I think it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr W ended up paying interest, fees and charges at a time when his overdraft was already 
unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Mr W lost out because of what HSBC did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from July 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan,     
Mr W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ws credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2017. 
HSBC can also reduce Mr Ws overdraft limit by the amount of any refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over his 
limit.OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mr Ws overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman