DRN-4361921
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr A with a loan for £3,000.00 in February 2020. This loan had an 
APR of 49.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£4,424.88, including interest, fees and charges of £1,424.88, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of £184.37. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr As complaint and that thought that it didnt do anything 
wrong when providing Mr A with his loan. So he didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 11 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 11 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to 
uphold Mr As complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr As complaint. 
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Having considered the information provided, I noted that the credit search 118 118 Money 
carried out appeared to show that Mr A had had difficulties with credit. He had an active 
county court judgement (CCJ), was significantly indebted and had made approaching 
£4,000.00 in cash withdrawals on credit cards in the 12 months leading to this application.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that 118 118 Money needed to find out more about 
Mr As actual monthly expenditure before concluding that the payments to this loan were 
affordable for him.
Mr A had provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
his loan. I accepted that different checks might show different things and just because 
something showed up in the information Mr A had provided, it didnt mean it would have 
shown up in any checks 118 118 Money might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 118 118 Money showing what this information 
would have shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate for me to 
place considerable weight on what this information said as an indication of what Mr As 
financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I thought that it was also important to note that 118 118 Money was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an 
indication that a consumer  such as Mr A - could sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make 
their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further. 
I considered the information available in light of all of this.
The information provided showed me the reason for Mr As indebtedness and apparent 
inability to manage his money. Given what I saw, it was apparent to me that Mr A was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this was the case, I thought that Mr As existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr A. 
As 118 118 Money provided Mr A with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And it was my intention to 
uphold this complaint. 
I thought that Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have 
been provided with. And this left me intending to find that Mr A lost out because of what        
118 118 Money did wrong and issue a final decision directing 118 118 Money to put things 
right for Mr A.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything further 
to me to consider.
118 118 Money confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and said that it didnt have 
anything further for me to consider. My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr As complaint in my provisional decision 
of 11 September 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So overall and having considered 
everything, Im still upholding Mr As complaint and I remain satisfied that 118 118 Money 
needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for         
118 118 Money to put things right for Mr A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple to any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr A to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it may have recorded about this loan from 
Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 11 September 2023, 
Im upholding Mr As complaint. Madison CF UK Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman