DRN-3402762
The complaint
Mr S complains through his representative that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans (Everyday) lent him money on two high interest loans which he was unable 
to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided the following loans to Mr S:
Date of 
loanAmount Term Monthly 
Repayment*Amount paid*
Loan 1 10/11/2017 £5,000 24 Months £340 £6,666
Loan 2 27/6/2019 £7,600 48 Months £297 Still outstanding
*rounded down
Mr S said the loans were unaffordable to him and that he was persuaded to borrow more 
money than he needed to. His representative said:
The bank statements obtained by Everyday before the loans were advanced show Mr S 
had very little disposable income and did reach his overdraft, this should have given it 
cause to build a better understanding of his financial circumstances and ensure that the 
credit given was affordable.
Mr Ss repeated refinancing should have shown that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable.
Everyday said that for each loan it carried out the following checks:
Obtaining and reviewing up to one months bank statements from the customer's primary    
bank account and secondary bank account (Mr S supplied statements from two 
accounts).
Obtaining and reviewing one month's payslip.
Conducting a Credit Search.
Carrying out a job check.
Assessing monthly living expenses using Office for National Statistics (ONS) data.
It assessed that both loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator said that for both loans he didnt think there was anything in the information 
Everyday gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to him. He did note however that the 
statements didnt show any rent (for loan 1) or utility payments (for both loans), but did show 
cash transfers from a third account, for which no statement have been supplied. So, he 
couldnt say what any further checks by Everyday might have revealed. The adjudicator 
didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
In response to the assessment, Mr S has sent in further bank statements but from his 
primary account, as seen by Everyday. Our adjudicator said this hadnt changed his view.
Mr S disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).The loans were for significant amounts, over a long period. So Everyday should have carried 
out a thorough assessment of Mr Ss financial circumstances at the time of the applications.
loan 1
For this loan, Mr S produced statements from two accounts, one of which showed his 
monthly salary and expenses. He had two active HP agreements, on one £100 remained 
outstanding and on the other he was paying £529 a month. He had no other credit 
commitments. 
Everyday assessed that he had a monthly disposable income, after taking into account the 
loan repayment, of around £462. From the bank statements supplied, one was well 
maintained and had a reasonable credit balance, the other had a small overdraft at one point 
in the month. Neither statement shows any payments to loan companies or other credit 
providers. 
As our adjudicator pointed out, the statements dont show any rent or utility payments, and 
show transfers from a third account. Mr S was invited to produce further evidence. The 
evidence he has produced consists of further statements from his primary bank account, 
which again in my view dont show any concerns. I can only consider the information 
available to Everyday at the time he took out the loan, so statements from after both loans 
arent relevant to that consideration. 
I think Everyday carried out proportionate checks. The lack of payments for utilities or rents 
on the accounts perhaps should have alerted it to investigate Mr Ss finances further but I 
havent seen any evidence as to what those further checks might have revealed.
loan 2 
Mr S had recently moved and now had a mortgage into which I presume the HP agreement 
had been subsumed. He had settled that and the previous Everyday loan. He had a credit 
card with a £262 balance on it. He had no other credit commitments. 
One bank account had been overdrawn but one was now in credit and the other was 
overdrawn, though the overdraft had decreased by £700 in the previous month. Again the 
statements dont show any other loan or credit payments.
I note that Mr S wanted the new loan for home improvements, and there were several 
payments to contractors in his statements. Everyday assessed that Mr S had a monthly 
disposable income of about £866 after taking into account the new loan instalment.
Again there is a lack of information from the bank statements about payments to utilities, but 
his mortgage payment does show on one of the accounts. Again if Everyday had carried out 
further checks I havent seen any evidence as to what those further checks might have 
revealed.
I think that for both loans Everyday carried out proportionate checks and made fair lending 
decisions.    
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaints.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman