DRN-3414600
The complaint
In summary, Miss L has complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) provided her with 
incorrect account details in relation to the setting up of a savings account; and didnt carry 
out the changes to rectify this, she says it promised to do. 
Miss L is also unhappy with how it dealt with her concerns as she wasnt put through to the 
manager she wanted to speak to. In addition, she is upset at what YBS said her comments 
could be interpreted as, during conversations she had with its call handlers. 
What happened
In May 2021, Miss L contacted YBS about opening a savings account with it. Its records 
showed that a regular saver application form was sent to Miss L, and that she was advised 
of the monthly contributions she could make into the account. 
Miss L said she never received the forms and contacted YBS again in June 2021. She spoke 
to a complaints manager who explained that the forms had been sent, but it appeared Miss L 
hadnt received them. He also explained that the account had now been set up and the 
monthly maximum that could be paid into it. 
Miss L then contacted YBS again in October 2021 when she noticed that payments from her 
bank account were going into the wrong account. She then subsequently had conversations 
with a number of YBS staff regarding her account and her concerns about how this had 
happened. She wanted to speak to the complaint manager she had spoken to in the June.
YBS then wrote to Miss L to respond to her complaint. It set out its concerns about how 
Miss L had spoken to members of its staff during the calls she had with them. It then went on 
to address the complaint she had made. It explained that YBS couldnt set up a standing 
order from an external bank account and that the instruction would have had to have been 
provided by her. It went on to say that she had been given details of the correct amounts that 
could be paid into the account.
YBS wrote to Miss L again in response to further concerns that she raised in response to its 
letter. In essence it repeated what it had said in its first response to her. And it explained that 
access had been blocked to her online accounts due to a password challenge failure.
Another letter was sent to Miss L by YBS. It explained it was satisfied the responses it had 
given her were reasonable and fair. 
Miss Ls concerns were then reviewed by one of our investigators. She explained why she 
didnt think Miss L had been given incorrect information about setting up a standing order for 
the account, or in relation to the maximum amount that could be paid into the account. And 
she didnt think YBS had been wrong with how it dealt with Miss Ls calls. She explained that 
she didnt think YBS had acted unfairly in raising its concerns about how she had spoken to 
various members of its staff. 
Miss L was unhappy with the investigators response. So, the case has been passed to me 
for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Miss L feels very strongly about the issues she has raised with YBS 
concerning her savings account. And I do understand and acknowledge that she is very 
upset about how the interactions with its staff went, and some of the things it has said in 
response to her complaint.   
In reaching my decision Ive focussed on the key issues I think are relevant in order for me to 
decide if YBS has done anything wrong. That means I wont have addressed every point 
Miss L has made. But I want to reassure Miss L and YBS that I have thought carefully about 
everything they have said and provided me with. 
Miss Ls concerns appear to have stemmed from when the savings account was set up. 
Although the account was set up in June after Miss L contacted YBS again, its records 
indicate that an application had been sent to her prior her contacting it again in the June. 
Ive listened to the telephone call recordings that Miss L had with YBS call handlers. And I 
understand she feels strongly about what she was told in those calls. In particular she 
believes that things didnt happen as she recalls being agreed following her conversation 
with a complaints manager in June 2021. 
But the call recording with the complaints manager she spoke to in June 2021, evidences 
that what was discussed and agreed wasnt as Miss L remembers. I say this because I can 
hear the complaint handler apologising for her not receiving the application form, but he 
explained that there was a record of it being sent to her. He agreed the response letter she 
had been sent, hadnt addressed all of her concerns. And £100 compensation was agreed in 
respect of the customer service failings. 
In addition, I can hear the complaints manager explaining to Miss L that the account had 
been set up and the maximum monthly payments that could be made into it, was £500. He 
went on to explain the interest rate on account, that it was for 12 months and what the total 
interest would be if the maximum monthly payment was made each month. Miss L recalls 
that the complaint manager agreed to organise a standing order to be made into the 
account. But that wasnt said in the call. And Im satisfied that it was explained to Miss L that 
she needed to make payments into the account. 
When Miss L discovered that the payments she had been making hadnt been made into the 
correct savings account. She had a number of conversations with YBS staff. Miss L wanted 
to speak to the complaints manager she had spoken to in the June. Miss L was contacted by 
YBS staff to discuss her concerns, but they werent the manager she specifically wanted to 
speak to. Its evident she became frustrated when she wasnt put through to that individual or 
his manager and didnt receive a call back. But I dont believe she was promised a call back 
as she recalls she was.
I dont think YBS did anything wrong by not organising for the manager Miss L had spoken to 
in the June to contact her again. YBS like most financial businesses have specific staff 
employed to deal with complaints. And in deciding who should deal with and respond to a complaint, is a matter for YBS to decide. Miss L may have had an individual preference, but I 
think the staff she spoke to could have dealt with her concerns appropriately. 
Miss L is also very upset and concerned with how YBS said her interactions with its staff 
could be construed. And I can understand from her perspective why she might be upset. But 
Im not persuaded that YBS has made the allegation against Miss L that she thinks it had. It 
specifically said that what she had said could be viewed as.. That isnt the same as 
saying that they were.
Having listened to all of the calls provided by YBS, its clear to me that some of the 
conversations Miss L had with its staff were quite difficult. And my impression is that Miss L 
is angry and upset in some of the calls. So, I can understand why YBS from its perspective, 
had concerns about what was said in the conversations she had with its staff. And I dont 
think it did anything wrong in expressing its concerns to Miss L. 
My final decision
I do understand that Miss L will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive set out above, Im 
not upholding her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman