DRN-3115942
The complaint
  Miss O has complained that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
  Miss O was given a loan by Progressive Money. She arranged this on 8 June 2017 for 
£6000 and was due to repay this back over 48 months at £297.18 a month. If the loan had 
run for the full four years, she would have been due to pay £14,275.92. Miss O repaid the 
loan early. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Like our investigator, I dont think Progressive Money shouldve provided this loan. Ill 
explain why I say this.
Progressive Money says it used a figure of £3285.26 for Miss Os income. This included 
some wages and working family tax credit. Progressive Money then worked out that, after 
paying her monthly expenditure, Miss O would still have £730.13 spare cash. So, the loan, 
according to Progressive Money, looked comfortably affordable for her.
I've taken into account what Progressive Money has said about how it calculated the 
affordability of this loan before it agreed to lend to Miss O. But I dont think Progressive 
Money made a fair lending decision when it lent to Miss O based on the information it had 
gathered.
I say this because Progressive Money was able to see from its credit checks that:
Miss O was up to her limit on her available credit and with one card was over this.
within the previous 12 months she had relied on short term lending on a number of 
occasions, settling them and then taking out more. 
at the time of application, she held three open short-term loans with different finance 
providers. The most recent was taken out only two months prior to this application.
She had only recently agreed a payment plan on a credit card and her first payment 
had just been recorded on the credit report. She had defaulted on this card and had 
only just arranged to repay the outstanding balance. 
Miss O also had defaulted on a second credit card, this being in 2013. She had told 
Progressive Money that she had arranged a payment plan for this, but no payments 
had been recorded on the report it had in front of it and there was still an outstanding 
balance to pay.
Miss O says she also defaulted on a mobile phone account and that this was her 
sons phone. The default was registered in her name less than a year before this 
application and there was a balance outstanding to repay. 
She had made four late payments on her mortgage within the past 12 months.
Miss O had two county court judgements for non-payment, one of which was 
recorded less than a year before this application. Both had outstanding balances and 
had not at this point been settled.
I dont think Progressive Money thought carefully enough about what this credit history 
showed about Miss Os overall financial situation, especially bearing in mind it had 
calculated that she had disposable income of approximately £730 each month which, to my 
mind, wouldve seemed at odds with what it saw on the credit checks it had carried out. I 
think Progressive Money should have considered carefully why someone with the amount of 
disposable income its checks suggested Miss O had would have needed to make use of 
expensive credit the way it could see Miss O was doing. And also, why with the amount of 
disposable income, she had defaulted on three of her accounts, missed payments on her 
mortgage and received two court judgements for non- payment.
And I dont think, based on what Progressive Money had in front of it, I can fairly say that 
Progressive Money saw enough to reasonably be satisfied that Miss O was going to be able 
to make the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way. So, I dont think it made a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it and I uphold Miss Os complaint on this 
point alone. 
But I also think that Progressive Money should have carried out further checks in order to 
gain a deeper understanding of Miss Os financial circumstances, particularly bearing in 
mind that she would be making the loan repayments for the next four years.
I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the amount borrowed, the
total repayments Miss O would have to make for this loan and the length of the loan term all
lead me to think, on balance, that Progressive Money should have carried out a complete 
review of Miss Os finances and done more to verify what she had told it about her 
expenditure  especially bearing in mind also what it saw on the credit checks it did carry 
out.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Miss O which I think are a useful guide to
understanding Miss Os overall financial situation at the time.
if Progressive Money had done a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen 
nothing to reassure it that this loan was going to be sustainably affordable for Miss O. I can 
see that, far from having the amount of disposable income left over each month that 
Progressive Money had calculated, in reality Miss O was having problems with her finances. 
In the three months running up to her applying for the loan, she had a lot more going out 
than she had going in.
All of this should have led Progressive Money to the conclusion that Miss O was not 
managing her financial situation effectively. And I think that Progressive Money shouldve 
realised that this loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Miss O when she was 
struggling to get through the month without needing to rely on credit.I have considered that Progressive Moneys records indicate that Miss O intended to use this 
loan to consolidate some of her other debts and Progressive Money pointed out that it could 
have cleared her revolving credit balance (in other words, paid her credit cards and short 
term loans). But I think that what Progressive Money saw on its credit checks about Miss Os 
use of credit, and in particular her impaired credit data such as the defaults and CCJs, 
would suggest that she would likely remain in financial trouble regardless once credit was 
made available to her again. 
So, I dont currently think Progressive Money should have agreed to give this loan to Miss O.
Like our investigator, I dont currently think Progressive Money made a fair lending decision. 
I have also looked at whether it made proportionate checks. I dont think it did and if it had 
carried out further checks, it would have seen that Miss O couldnt have sustainably repaid 
the loan. 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Miss O responded and says she agrees with the findings of my provisional decision.
Progressive Money has provided a detailed response and although I have not included 
every point that it has made below, I have considered everything it has said carefully. I will 
summarise what I believe the most relevant points that it has made:
 
It says it called Miss O and questioned her about the reasons for her defaults and 
CCJs. It says Miss O explained she was working part time at the time but was 
now full time and had set up payment plans to repay her debts.
It says Miss O was determined to get into better financial position by using this loan 
to pay off short term debt
It believed the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate.
It says it took steps to assess Miss Os affordability and sustainability of the loan. 
Its decision to lend was based on the information provided to it.
Overall, it didnt think it did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Miss O.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The submission from Progressive Money hasnt persuaded me that I should change my 
provisional decision. 
I have already explained this in my provisional decision, but I think it is worth reiterating 
again that the lender was required to establish whether Miss O could sustainably meet her 
loan repayments not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Progressive Money felt it had taken enough steps to show the loan repayments were 
sustainable and it felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. It has also 
said Miss O was determined to get into a better financial position by using this loan to pay 
off short term debt. So, I revisited this and looked through the documentation.I've taken into account that the purpose of the loan was partly to consolidate other credit  in 
other words, to pay off other debt in order to help reduce Miss Os monthly outgoings. But 
after using a proportion of this loan to settle other debt, Miss O was still going to have a 
proportion of other credit outstanding.
Its fair to say the repayment for this new loan was less than the combined repayments she
had been making on the loans she would clear, and so her monthly outgoings would be
reduced as a result. But Miss O was signing up to pay her new Progressive Money loan for 
48 months. The total amount that Miss O would have to pay back, if the loan ran for the full 
term, was going to be £14,275.92. Looking at the loan amount and the term over which she 
had committed to repay it, in real terms taking out this loan put Miss O into a worse position 
overall.
Progressive Moneys loan meant Miss O had to repay expensive credit over the next 48 
months  longer than its likely she might reasonably have expected to repay the loans she 
would repay using this money still to be running. And taking out this loan put her in the 
position of borrowing high cost credit to pay other high cost credit.
So, in summary, and for the reasons I have just given, I think Progressive Money ought 
reasonably to have been aware that this partial consolidation was unlikely to help Miss O 
make sufficient inroad into her debt. 
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Progressive Money didnt make a fair lending 
decision and after reviewing the documentation again, I still think that was the case. Im not 
going to repeat all of the reasons why again as they are given in my provisional decision 
above. But when I look through the credit search results that Progressive Money had in front 
of it, I think it ought to have realised at this point that Miss O was having problems managing 
her finances and then not agreed to lend. I acknowledge the point it has made about how it 
questioned her about this, but this doesnt change the conclusion that I have just made that, 
on balance when presented with the credit search information, it should have acted on the 
information it had in front of it and not lent to Miss O.
So, I uphold Miss Os complaint and conclude on this occasion that Progressive Money 
irresponsibly lent to her.
As I am upholding Miss Os complaint, I need to think about what Progressive Money 
would need to do to put her in a position she would have been in if it hadnt agreed to lend 
to her. Miss O would still need to pay back the money that she had use of, but I would 
need consider amongst other things that interest and charges be taken off. 
I have considered all of the points Progressive Money has made in its submission, and I do 
thank it for engaging with and responding to the findings of my provisional decision. But my 
findings and decision hasnt changed. So, it now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
  I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss O to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she has had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to her.
Progressive Money should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Miss 
O made as payments towards the capital.If reworking Miss Os loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Progressive Money should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money should give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Os complaint and direct Progressive Money limited to 
pay compensation as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman