DRN-2813446
The complaint
Mrs As complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs A acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs A responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mrs A has suggested the damage was present when she took receipt of the car. The 
car was about a year and a half old when it was supplied to Mrs A and I think its 
reasonable to expect some limited wear and tear that might deviate slightly from the 
BVRLA guidance. But Im not persuaded Mrs A would have been likely to accept a 
car with the sort of damage Ive seen evidenced in the inspectors report. I think she 
would have been likely to notice that and to have complained. 
And, even if Im wrong about that, I also note the signed release document Mrs A 
was given when she took receipt of the car said, No responsibility can be accepted 
for missing items or damage after the vehicle has been signed for unless noted at the 
time of collection. I think Mrs A would therefore have been aware it was her 
responsibility to check the car that was being supplied and that by accepting it she 
accepted its cosmetic condition and by signing her finance agreement she accepted 
accountability for any deterioration in that condition;
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provides the industry 
guidance on what wear and tear is reasonable when a car is returned at the end of a 
lease period. So, Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in 
the inspection report completed at handover. The dents to the door shuts and doors 
can be measured using the rulers in the reports photographs and they are all in 
excess of the 15mm maximum allowed under the guidance. The wheel spoke is also 
scuffed and the guidance says there should be no damage in this area. So, I think 
the charges have been levied fairly
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman