DRN-3549604
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society lent to her irresponsibly when it increased 
the credit limit on her credit card.
What happened
At some point between June and August 2015, Nationwide increased the credit limit on 
Mrs Ms credit card from £1,500 to £1,800.
Mrs M says that at the time she was on a fixed pension income of just under £545 per month 
and stuck in a cycle of debt. Mrs M says Nationwide would have seen that she wasnt 
clearing the full balance each month and yet it increased her limit.
Nationwide says that Mrs M never made any purchases using this account and her activity 
was limited to balance transfers. It says Mrs M received a three month interest free period, 
was repaying four times the monthly minimum repayment and then cleared the balance in 
October/ November 2015. It said it would have undertaken a credit search at the time of the 
credit limit increase and it didnt think it had lent irresponsibly.
When Mrs M complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They thought 
Nationwide ought to have done more to assess Mrs Ms financial position at the time, and 
that if it had done so Nationwide would likely not have approved the credit limit increase. 
Nationwide didnt agree or provide new information, so the complaint was passed to me for 
consideration by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 June 2022 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint. 
Mrs M and Nationwide responded that they accepted my provisional decision and neither 
provided further information to consider. So, the matter has been passed back to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Nationwide was required to take reasonable steps to 
be satisfied Mrs M would be able to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to 
further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances. In general, what makes up a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. For example, their financial 
history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and cost of credit they have 
applied for would also be considered.
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been.
What happened here doesnt appear to be in dispute, but the dates Ive been provided with 
do vary. Unfortunately, neither party has been able to provide a copy of Mrs Ms credit card 
statements, so Ive relied on a snapshot Mrs M has provided of her credit file information for 
this account  this shows her monthly balance, credit limit and payments.
Nationwide has only been able to provide limited information about its assessment of 
Mrs Ms ability to sustainably repay the debt as part of its consideration of the relevant credit 
limit increase. But it does appear to have undertaken a check of her credit file and ensured 
no risk factors were present, such as defaulted accounts.
Mrs M has told us she had two other credit cards at the time, one she was paying £100 a 
month towards and one she repaid in full each month. Shes also told us that her essential 
outgoings (bills) were split with her husband, with her half being £133 (this doesnt include 
food or travel expenses). Without having all the information that was available at the time to 
consider, I think its finely balanced whether Nationwide ought to have undertaken further 
checks at the time  however, when Ive looked at the statements provided by Mrs M, Im not 
persuaded these do show that the lending was irresponsible.
The statements provided are for a joint account between Mr and Mrs M. These show both 
Mr and Mrs Ms income crediting the account and all essential payments coming from this 
account as well  so their finances appear to be shared into one pot. While Mr and Mrs M 
may have had an informal understanding that Mrs M would contribute towards half of their 
essential outgoings, their statements indicate that any outgoings were in effect proportionate 
to their incomes. And there are no signs that Mrs M was having trouble managing her 
money. So on the information available, I dont agree that this credit increase was 
unaffordable.
I note that even if it were the case that Nationwide shouldnt have agreed to this credit limit 
increase, I cant see that Mrs M has suffered a loss. Nationwide has said that the full balance 
on the account was comprised of balance transfers rather than purchases. This means 
Mrs M would likely have moved the balance from another credit card. I dont have evidence 
of the interest rates on the accounts these funds were transferred from, but its unlikely 
Mrs M would have chosen to move funds to a more costly account given shes told us she 
wasnt fully utilising her credit limit on her other credit cards. So, I think its more likely than 
not that Mrs M incurred lower costs as a result of this credit limit increase.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman