DRN-2848766
The complaint
Ms D complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled a 
claim on her insurance. 
Ms D has been represented by her father throughout the claim and complaint. For ease of
reading all references to Ms D include the actions of her father.
What happened
In early 2017 Ms D made a claim on her home insurance, after experiencing water ingress at
a flat she owned and rented out. Ms D appointed a loss assessor to manage the claim for 
her. 
Work to repair the damage commenced in June. This was carried out by contractors 
appointed by the loss assessor. The work and costs were signed off by UKIs appointed loss 
adjuster. 
While the work was ongoing Ms D raised concerns to the contractors that the leak hadnt 
been properly fixed. And in October 2017 there was a second leak that caused further 
damage. 
The following year Ms D received a renewal quote for her insurance which was
significantly higher than the previous year. When she queried this with UKI, it said that this 
was due to the claim. She requested a copy of the invoice for the work carried out and 
thought it was too high. After this, the invoice was reviewed by her loss assessor and 
reduced by around £5,000.
Ms D made a complaint to UKI. She said its loss adjuster had signed off work that hadnt 
been completed by the contractors and had blocked investigatory work that may have 
prevented the second leak. She also didnt think the price of the new premium at renewal 
was fair. 
UKI didnt uphold her complaint. It said as Ms D had opted to appoint her own loss assessor 
to manage the claim, it was them that was responsible for the work carried out. UKIs 
contractor just had the responsibility of validating the work. It also said that its hadnt blocked 
investigatory work, but the second leak was in a different location to the repairs anyway. It 
also confirmed that the renewal price for the policy had been calculated accurately and in 
line with its pricing criteria.
Ms D didnt think this was fair. She said her loss assessor had told her that investigatory 
work had been red-penned by UKI and thats the reason nothing was done. She brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said as a loss assessor had 
been appointed, UKIs remit was limited and he didnt think it had acted unfairly in how it 
handled the claim. He also said UKI had provided evidence that the price increase in the 
policy premiums at renewal was in line with its pricing criteria used for all customers. He 
therefore didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Usually when a claim is made on an insurance policy, the insurer will appoint a loss adjuster 
to handle the claim. They will appoint the relevant contractors to carry out any work needed. 
A loss adjuster works for the insurer, so any work carried out by them or their contractors is 
the responsibility of the insurer. 
However in this case Ms D appointed a loss assessor to manage the claim on her behalf. 
The loss assessor appointed contractors to do the work, so they are responsible for the work 
carried out by the contractors and not UKI. 
In this complaint I am only looking at the actions of UKI, which means my remit is limited to 
considering issues that it was responsible for.
Investigatory work
Ms D complains that UKI refused to authorise investigatory works into concerns around an 
ongoing leak. She says this caused a second leak that could have been avoided. 
Where a claim is managed by a loss assessor, it is for them to inform the insurers loss 
adjuster as to the required work needed for the claim. It is then for the insurers loss adjuster 
to agree the work under policy cover.
When Ms D raised concerns about ongoing water ingress, her loss assessor took steps to 
investigate the matter. However at this time there was little evidence of another leak, so I 
understand why extra investigations may not have been deemed necessary.  
Further, UKI has explained that the second leak was traced to a different area than where 
the investigatory work was proposed. So even if further investigations had been carried out, I 
cant see this would have had an impact on the second leak.
For these reasons I dont think UKI has done anything wrong by failing to authorise further 
investigations. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
Inflated invoice
Ms D has said that UKI signed off costs that were inflated. All sides are in agreement that 
the first invoice that was presented by the loss assessor included costs that were additional 
to the work that was carried out. And once this was raised by Ms D, these costs were 
removed and the invoice reduced. 
While I appreciate Ms Ds concerns, as the first invoice was incorrect, I dont think UKI need 
to do anything more to put this right. The invoice has been amended and the correct costs 
have been paid. So Im satisfied that the value of the claim is now correct. It isnt the role of 
this service to punish businesses if they get something wrong. But to make sure things are 
put right if they do. In this case, as the invoice has now been amended, there is nothing 
further to address. So I dont agree UKI need to take any further action here. Policy premiums
Ms D has also complained that her premiums have increased due to the claim. There are 
many factors that impact the amount an insurer will charge for a policy. And these will 
usually be attached to the perceived risk of what they are insuring. It isnt the role of this 
service to tell insurers what they should charge, or what risk they should take on. But we do 
look at whether they have treated their customers fairly and in line with how they would treat 
other customers in the same circumstances.
UKI has provided us with information about why the policy premium was increased at 
renewal. And Im satisfied that it has treated Ms D fairly and charged the same amount it 
would for all customers in the same circumstances. So while I appreciate the policy 
premiums increased significantly at renewal, I cant say that UKI acted unfairly by charging 
more. So I wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman