DRN-3085983
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Exeter Friendly Society Limited didnt refund their private 
medical insurance premiums.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a private medical insurance policy, insured by Exeter Friendly. Although 
theyve had the policy for many years they are insured on an annual basis, the policy cover 
starting on 1 January.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because they say they couldnt benefit from the policy from 
March 2020 due to private medical facilities having been taken over by the NHS to assist 
with the Covid-19 pandemic. They want Exeter Friendly to refund the policy premiums 
theyve paid from March 2020 until consultant appointments and treatments are available in 
private hospitals.
Mr and Mrs B hadnt made a claim on the policy for any treatment during the relevant period. 
But Mr B said during that time he wanted to have a face to face appointment with a 
consultant to see if an operation for his existing medical condition was a realistic option. He 
said he hadnt contacted Exeter Friendly to make a claim because hed checked with the 
health provider who runs the private hospital which he wanted to go to and was told no 
private treatment was available. Mr B said due to his ill health he could only attend that 
hospital.
Exeter Friendly refused to refund any premiums. In summary Exeter Friendly said:
while many of the private hospitals which offered care under the policy had been 
taken over by the NHS to assist with treatment during the pandemic, private 
treatment although limited could still go ahead
it was providing virtual consultations with specialists by phone, video or online. Policy 
members with a confirmed diagnosis awaiting non urgent elective treatment could 
access pain management sessions and those who needed treatment would be 
referred to an immediate care pathway put together by the private and public health 
systems
it was providing access, by telephone and other methods, to other support services 
which included four remote GP consultations each year, a second medical opinion 
service and six virtual consultations for both physiotherapy and mental health support
as a result of Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the availability of their local private 
hospital it had contacted the relevant health provider. It had told Exeter Friendly they 
were open to new referrals offering virtual consultations and after review where 
clinically appropriate, and in line with its criteria, it would offer face to face 
appointments and diagnostic tests for certain patients
it expected to pay less in health insurance claims than anticipated during 2020. It 
made a commitment that any surplus resulting from a reduction in claims will be 
returned to the members. Exeter Friendly said it didnt yet know the full extent of the 
Covid-19 outbreak on claims and had aimed to limit increases on renewal premiums 
in a way that is fair to all members. It said the exact impact on a members premium 
will depend on when you joined, where you live and, if you have a No Claims 
Discount, the claims you have made in the last year.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. They want Exeter Friendly to refund their policy premiums 
for the relevant period and to produce a list of private hospitals that are open for private 
treatment.
Our investigator said Exeter Friendly had acted fairly and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. Their main additional points 
were that although the Covid-19 pandemic was outside Exeter Friendlys control that 
shouldnt meant it could keep taking policy premiums when there was no insured risk. They 
also said Exeter Friendly had given wrong information about what private treatment was 
available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs contract 
with Exeter Friendly as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry 
guidance.
Ive read and taken into account all the points Mr and Mrs B have made when making my 
decision but Ive focused on the key issues to explain why I dont uphold their complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy say the policy is for one year (but can 
generally be renewed) and premiums must be paid for Exeter Friendly to provide cover 
during that year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event 
happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the 
premium paid to cover the risk during that time even if no successful claim has been made 
under the policy. So Exeter Friendly is still entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover 
the risk of them making a claim during that time even though they didnt make a claim.
Mr B says he didnt make a claim even though he wanted to see a private consultant to 
discuss his existing medical condition as he was told by the healthcare provider that no 
private treatment was available at the hospital he wanted to attend. 
But I dont think its correct to say the policy wouldnt have met Mr Bs medical needs if hed 
contacted Exeter Friendly to make a claim, subject to the claim being covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Exeter Friendly told Mr and Mrs B that it was giving a package of enhanced benefits to help 
members get healthcare services and support. Although Mr B may have preferred a face to 
face consultation, Exeter Friendlys provision of virtual consultations and after review, where 
clinically appropriate, providing face to face appointments was a reasonable service to 
provide. So if Mr B had made a claim, and it was covered by the policy terms, then after a 
virtual consultation Mr B could have had a face to face appointment if that had been 
assessed as being clinically necessary.Mr B says he was told by the health care provider for the hospital he wanted to attend that 
no private consultations were available so he thinks Exeter Friendly is being untruthful. But 
the provider told Exeter Friendly that it was open for new referrals, initially with a virtual 
appointment as Ive detailed above. I think Exeter Friendly could reasonably understand that 
the information it got from the provider was accurate. 
Exeter Friendly told Mr B that if he needed to make a claim he should contact its claims team 
in the normal way, and it would assist. As he didnt do so theres no evidence to support 
Mr Bs belief that Exeter Friendly wouldnt have been able to provide the medical care he 
clinically required either at the hospital of Mr Bs choice or a suitable alternative.
Mr and Mrs B want Exeter Friendly to produce a list of hospitals that continued to give 
private treatment. Its a business decision for Exeter Friendly as to whether to provide a list 
and not an action I have the power within our remit to require it to do. But the important issue 
is that if Mr B had contacted Exeter Friendly to make a claim and after his virtual 
appointment it was clinically necessary for him to have a face to face appointment I think 
from the evidence Exeter Friendlys given that would have been possible. Even if Mr Bs 
choice of hospital wasnt available within a reasonable timescale then a suitable alternative 
hospital would have been a reasonable service for Exeter Friendly to provide.
The requisitioning of private facilities for use by the NHS around April 2020, which was 
outside of Exeter Friendlys control, may have led to some medical services under the policy 
being reduced. But for the reasons Ive given that doesnt mean Exeter Friendly has to 
refund any premiums Mr and Mrs B paid. I dont accept there was no insured risk for Mr and 
Mrs B. In their circumstances I dont think theres any reasonable basis for me to say 
Exeter Friendly has to refund their premiums.
Exeter Friendly had told Mr and Mrs B that as it expects to pay less in health insurance 
claims than anticipated during 2020 it will pass any surplus due to a reduction in claims to its 
members. Its given information on what it would take into account. I think thats a 
reasonable step for Exeter Friendly to take once its able to establish the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Its fair for Exeter Friendly to want to first establish the impact.
As I dont uphold this complaint I wont be asking Exeter Friendly to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman