DRN-4470017
The complaint
Ms R complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy unfairly.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R took out a telematics motor insurance policy with Advantage. The policy says 
Advantage can cancel the policy if the driving score drops below 30 (out of 100). If this 
happens, Ms R wont be charged a cancellation fee and she can cancel the policy herself, 
meaning she wont need to disclose it as an insurer cancellation to future insurers. These 
terms are not unusual, and I find them fair. 
Ms Rs policy started on 30 May 2023 and following Advantage saying it would cancel the 
policy because of a low driving score, Ms R cancelled the policy, effective 29 June 2023. 
Advantage charged Ms R for time on cover, but no cancellation fee. There is a separate 
complaint about the balance owed following cancellation, so I wont comment on that here.
Ms Rs complaint is that the policy shouldnt have been cancelled. She says, in brief, she 
had technical difficulties with the telematics box/app from the start, and when Advantage 
later said it would cancel the policy, the app showed her score was 37 and that many of her 
trips hadnt been scored. Shes provided our service with some evidence to support this.
Advantage said in its final response letter the matter had been discussed with its telematics 
team and it was confirmed the app was recording correctly and was not faulty. It said the 
same to our service. On 21 September 2023 the Investigator asked to see the driving data, 
amongst other things. Advantage didnt respond, despite chasers.
On 13 October 2023 the Investigator considered the limited information available to him and 
recommended the complaint should be upheld. This was because he wasnt persuaded 
Advantage had cancelled Ms Rs policy fairly. He recognised this matter had caused Ms R 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and thought Advantage should pay her £200 
compensation to resolve the complaint.
Ms R broadly accepted the Investigators recommendation, although she said she wanted to 
be reimbursed her premiums. She says she was charged £173 for 30 days cover, which is 
too much. However, as set out above, that is being dealt with as a separate complaint, and 
so does not form part this decision. 
Advantage didnt respond to the Investigator in a meaningful way, or provide the driving data 
or other evidence, despite email chasers, a call from the Investigator, and saying it would. As 
the matter cant be resolved informally, I must now make a formal determination. 
I find this complaint has merit. Ms R has argued  and presented some evidence to show 
the policy shouldnt have been cancelled because her driving score wasnt below the 
minimal level. Advantage, despite multiple opportunities over two months, hasnt provided 
any evidence to the contrary. I, like the Investigator, find on balance, and on the limited 
information available, that the policy was cancelled unfairly. Advantage should therefore put 
things right. 
Its clear there were communication issues in the lead up to the cancellation, and with the 
cancellation itself. And Ms R had been distressed about being told her driving score was too 
low, when her own data showed it wasnt. And having to cancel a policy and find alternative 
cover would have been hassle. Like the Investigator, I find compensation is appropriate, and 
I agree £200 fairly and reasonably reflects the impact this matter had on Ms R. This is in 
addition to the £30 Advantage paid Ms R for poor complaint handing.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms R 
£200 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman