DRN-4001475
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A has turned down a claim he made on an annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr A called Mapfre to make a missed departure claim on his annual travel 
insurance policy after he was denied boarding onto an aircraft. Mapfres claims notes say Mr 
A told the claims handler that hed been denied boarding because of problems with his travel 
documents and luggage barcodes. Mr A says he isnt sure why he was denied boarding.
Mapfre turned down Mr As claim. Thats because it said the claim wasnt covered by the 
missed departure section of the policy.
Mr A was unhappy with Mapfres decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
circumstances of Mr As claim were covered by the missed departure cover provided by his 
policy. So she concluded itd been fair for Mapfre to turn down his claim.
Mr A disagreed. In summary, he said that he had had a valid visa and he wasnt sure why 
hed been denied boarding. He queried whether hed been denied boarding because there 
was no space on the aircraft, or potentially because a member of staff had an issue with him.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr As policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Mapfre 
treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of his contract 
with Mapfre. Mr A made a missed departure claim, so I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to 
consider his claim in line with Section I  Missed Departure. This says that Mapfre will pay 
the reasonable additional travel expenses and accommodation costs a policyholder has 
incurred in reaching their overseas destination if theyve missed their departure due to one of 
the following, listed reasons:
1. You fail to arrive at the International Departure Point in time to board the Public Transport 
on which You are booked to travel on Your outward journey from the United Kingdom; or
2. You fail to arrive at the International Departure Point in time to board the Public Transport 
on which You are booked to travel on the final part of Your return journey to the United 
Kingdom, including missing an onward connecting flight between the United Kingdom or 
mainland Europe; or
3. You fail to arrive into the United Kingdom in time to board Your onward connecting flight 
on which You are booked to travel as a result of a delay.
Cover is only provided as a direct result of one of the following events:
1. the failure of other scheduled Public Transport or
2. an accident to or breakdown of the vehicle which You are travelling or
3. an accident or breakdown occurring ahead of You on a motorway or dual carriage way 
which causes an unexpected delay to the vehicle in which You are travelling
Or 
4. strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions.
In my view, Mapfre has clearly set out the insured events it covers in the event of a 
policyholders missed departure. In this case, it appears Mr A had arrived at the airport in 
time to board his flight  so he doesnt appear to have arrived too late at the international 
departure point. 
Mapfres notes say that Mr A: called to log claim under Missed Departure. (Mr A) advised 
that the airline did not allow him to board flight due to problems with travel documents/bar 
codes for luggage. I appreciate Mr A now says he doesnt know why he wasnt allowed to 
board the flight and its possible that it was because the airline had overbooked the flight. Mr 
A says he was able to rebook a flight and travel the next day, so it does seem less likely that 
there were issues with his travel documents. But whether Mr A was denied boarding due to 
travel document issues; flight overbooking; an issue with his luggage, or because of the 
actions of a member of the airlines staff; I dont think that these situations are covered by 
the specific, listed insured events Mapfre has chosen to cover under Section I. So I dont 
think Mapfre acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr As Missed Departure claim wasnt 
covered by the terms of his contract with it.
Ive looked carefully at the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think there is any term 
which covers the unfortunate situation Mr A found himself in.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr As position, as I appreciate hes been left out 
of pocket, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Mapfre to 
pay his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman