DRN-3280838
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank mis-sold 
them a term cover policy and should have told them sooner when the policy was ending. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A met with Scottish Widows 2003 and after a fact-find meeting recommended 
a level term assurance policy for 18 years to provide life cover should either of them die. 
Shortly before the policy came to an end, Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs A and Mr A to 
explain the last direct debit had been paid.
Mrs A and Mr A complained to Scottish Widows that they thought the policy lasted longer 
than it did and that they were now left without life cover as the policy couldnt be amended or 
continued. Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint and explained the suitability letter, 
policy documents and illustrations provided at the time made it clear when the policy ended. 
Scottish Widows said the policy was suitable for their agreed need at the time, which was to 
provide life cover until their youngest daughter had reached the age of 21. 
Mrs A and Mr A brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator didnt think that Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong as it had provided a suitable policy for their needs and gave details of how 
the policy worked and how long it provided cover for. Mrs A and Mr A didnt agree with the 
Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs A and Mr A will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons as 
the Investigator Ive decided Scottish Widows didnt do anything wrong and I wont be 
upholding the complaint. I will now explain why.
Scottish Widows met with Mrs A and Mr A twice in 2003. At the first meeting a fact-find was 
completed and at the second Scottish Widows initially recommended life cover to protect a 
five-year loan of £17,300, life and critical illness of £240,000 for a period of 19 years and a 
separate term cover policy with life cover of £48,000 for 22 years. At the second meeting the 
fact-find and suitability letter record a discussion took place regarding affordability. Mrs A 
and Mr A agreed to put in place a decreasing term cover policy to protect the loan, and an 
additional policy to provide life cover of £17,300 life until their youngest daughter had 
reached age 21. The agreed budget for the additional £17,300 over 18 years life cover 
policy, the policy being complained about, was £20 per month. 
Ive seen the documents Scottish Widows provided to Mrs A and Mr A at the time of the sale 
and after the application had been accepted. The key features document explained the 
policy was for a fixed term only and couldnt be extended, and the policy schedule explained 
when the policy ended. I appreciate Mrs A and Mrs A say they had no reason to inspect the 
policy, but Ive seen nothing to suggest Scottish Widows told them the policy was for either 
the whole of their lives or that it was reviewable or renewable in any way. Instead, the policy 
sold appears to me to be the type of policy that they wanted at the time as it met their need 
for life cover until their youngest daughter had reached age 21.
I have empathy with Mrs A and Mr A that recent health issues mean that new life cover is 
now difficult and expensive to replace, but this doesnt make the policy unsuitable at the time 
it was sold. Regardless of this, Im satisfied it protected the agreed need at that time.
Scottish Widows told Mrs A and Mr A after the last direct debit payment that the policy was 
ending, but the policy was always for a fixed term. Scottish Widows had explained this at the 
time of the sale, and it was clearly noted in the policy schedule. There were no other options 
for this policy other than for it to end in 2021, so I dont consider Scottish Widows acted in an 
untimely manner when it reminded Mrs A and Mr B the policy was ending. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Scottish Widows Bank didnt do anything 
significantly wrong and I havent upheld the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman