DRN-1641193
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Claims Hunters Ltd has requested a fee from her in relation to a 
successful PPI claim. She has said she didn't agree to be represented by it.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs S received a letter from a lender she previously took out credit with. This 
letter explained Mrs S claim for a refund of PPI payments had been successful  and she 
was to receive a refund of £4,566.61. Following this, Mrs S also received communications 
from Claim Hunters. It said its fee of £1,219.50 was due, for its work on representing Mrs S, 
and making a successful claim for mis-sold PPI on her behalf.
Mrs S contacted Claims Hunters and said she didnt agree she had to pay a fee to it. She 
said she hadnt agreed for it to represent her, and had never signed a letter of authority, or 
terms of business to confirm her agreement. 
Claims Hunters disagreed. It said Mrs S had completed a survey on a third party website, in 
relation to a competition. It said on this website she could select to complete surveys for 
entries into a competition for a hoover. And Mrs S had selected a Claims Hunters survey. 
And following this Mrs S agreed and signed its letter of authority and terms of business. So, 
it had made a PPI claim to the lender she had provided details for. And it had been 
successful. So, it maintained its fee was due. And it asked for payment of this. Because Mrs 
S was unhappy with this response, she referred her complaint to the Claims Management 
Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for an independent review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think this should be upheld. She said she 
could see Mrs S had used a third party website, and had signed up for Claims Hunters to 
represent her through this. She said Mrs S had signed the relevant forms giving Claims 
Hunters authority  and it had been in regular contact with her, via email, text and letter 
asking her to contact it. First in relation to further questions it had about her claim, and then 
following that to discuss the successful claim it had submitted on her behalf. So, our 
investigator said it was reasonable for Claims Hunters fee to be charged.
Mrs S disagreed. She said she had been deceived into signing up through the third party 
website, and noted she didnt sign the above documents. In addition, Mrs S has said she did 
acknowledge an email from Claims Hunters at one point, but this was in an attempt to close 
the conversation. She thought the communications she had received werent genuine.
Because Mrs S remained in disagreement, the complaint has been referred to me for an 
independent review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, Im not asking Claims Hunters 
to do anything differently. 
As above, the suggestion is that Mrs S completed a survey on a third party website, and 
through this signed up and agreed for Claims Hunters to represent her in a claim to a third 
party lender. Mrs S has said she didnt sign up to this. So, Ive needed to review the 
evidence provided, and consider whether its likely Mrs S signed up to Claims Hunters 
services, or not.
And based on what Ive seen, I do think it most likely she did. Claims Hunters has provided 
evidence of the third party website Mrs S completed the survey through  and the date on 
which this was completed. 
Ive also seen a letter of authority, and terms of business document thats been electronically 
signed. Mrs S has said she didnt complete these documents herself. But I have to decide 
what I think is most likely in this case. And, I do think its likely Mrs S signed the documents. 
Mrs S has said she can recall entering the competition on the third party website. So, its not 
disputed she visited the webpage, and completed surveys. 
And whilst I understand Mrs S has said the signature isnt hers, its often the case that when 
completing a signature with technology, this doesnt look the same as when completing it on 
paper. I havent seen any evidence to suggest the signature, alongside details of the lender 
Mrs S previously had credit with, and her contact details were completed by anyone else. 
And I cant see how Claims Hunters would have known these details without her providing 
them.
Mrs S said she had credit with other lenders in the past, and for personal reasons she chose 
not to make claims for a PPI refund from these lenders. I understand what Mrs S is saying 
here. But, I dont think this evidences that she didnt agree to pursue this particular lender.
Im also aware that following this, Claims Hunters sent Mrs S communications on a number 
of occasions. This included an email confirming the letter of authority and terms of business. 
And further emails asking Mrs S to contact it to answer some questions in relation to her 
claim. 
And Claims Hunters did contact her on a number of occasions to say it had news on her 
claim, for example when PPI payments were confirmed by the third party lender. As well as 
when the claim was successful. Given the level of communication Mrs S received, I think its 
clear Claims Hunters were actively pursuing the claim, and its work led to the PPI refund 
Mrs S received. So, I do think Claims Hunters provided the service set out in its terms. And 
that without it doing this, Mrs S wouldnt have received the refund due to her.
The terms and conditions signed by Mrs S  note that if the claim for a PPI refund is 
successful ,the fee of 20% of the PPI refund, plus VAT becomes payable. Im satisfied this is 
clear in the terms of business signed. And Ive seen an email was sent to the email address 
provided at the time, enclosing a copy of the signed documents to confirm. The fee Claims 
Hunters is now asking Mrs S to pay is in line with these terms. So, I do think its acted 
reasonably in asking for this amount to be paid.
I appreciate Mrs S feels she was misled into signing up for Claims Hunters services. And 
whilst I appreciate her comments around this, I dont agree. Claims Hunters has provided 
evidence which shows its most likely Mrs S selected the Claims Hunters survey. And signed 
up for it to pursue the matter. This led to a successful PPI claim, for which its fee is 
chargeable. So, Im dont think Claims Hunters did anything wrong.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. So, I don't require 
Claims Hunters Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman