DRN-3824869
The complaint
Mr H complains about Coventry Building Society, referred to as the business or Coventry.   
In summary, he says that his ISA account, upon maturity, was (erroneously) transferred to 
an easy access non-ISA account  rather than an existing Coventry easy access ISA 
account  based on an incorrect account number that he wrote down supplied by the 
business.    
He doesnt think the business offer to pay him compensation  as a gesture of goodwill  is 
reasonable, as its not comparable to the actual tax loss suffered. To put things right, he 
would like the business to compensate him for his losses. 
In other words, Mr H would like the business to reinstate the ISA status of his savings by 
transferring the funds to a new ISA (without utilising his 2020-2021 ISA allowance). If 
reinstatement isnt possible, he would like the business to pay compensation for the financial 
loss caused by the future tax liability on these savings. Hes a higher rate taxpayer and 
anticipates using his full ISA allowance each year until retirement as he has done so in all 
the past years. 
What happened
Mr Hs fixed term ISA was due to mature on 31 May 2020. He was sent an instruction form 
(the form) to fill out and return in advance. He ticked the box within the section that 
indicated that the funds in question should be transferred to an existing Coventry Building 
Society ISA(s) below.
 
Mr H then entered an account number which he thought was for an easy access ISA 
account, but it wasnt. He says he was previously given this number at a branch after he 
made enquiries about an easy access ISA account, but the business says theres no record 
of this. 
The business says that it transferred the funds to a non-ISA account as per Mr Hs 
instructions. However, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr H £1,520.37 compensation. 
There is some internal discussion in which the business suggests that perhaps it shouldve 
double checked the account number as it wouldve come up as a non-ISA account on the 
system. It doesnt however think its responsible for the losses claimed. 
Mr H is unhappy with the business response and offer and referred the complaint to our 
service. He doesnt think the offer is comparable to the actual tax loss. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Other than what Mr H says, theres no record that he was supplied with the incorrect 
account number, so shes not in a position to comment on this point further. 
Mr Hs reference to emails he obtained via a subject access request (SAR), 
according to him, suggests that the business concedes/accepts that the form 
shouldve been reviewed as earlier versions of the form didnt have a tick box, so 
staff just transferred the funds to the account number. 
The business followed Mr Hs withdrawal instructions, as per the box ticked (and 
account number supplied) on the form. It didnt enquire any further but couldve done. 
The business said that his initial investment superseded the maximum investment 
allowed to be deposited in an ISA, so it couldve reasonably assumed that Mr H 
understood what he was doing. 
Ultimately, the business had a process in place, and it followed that process 
correctly. Mr H provided the incorrect account number, it wasnt the businesss 
responsibility to query this further. 
The business said that its current process is to conduct quality checks on a number 
of forms. 
The offer made by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Our guideline for compensation of interest not applied to a cash ISA is that it should 
be calculated over five years, however, the business has covered 10 years.
Notwithstanding our approach  which is usually to tell a business to put the 
customer back in the position theyd have been in if things hadnt gone wrong  there 
is additional ISA specific guidance. 
Mr H states that it would be fair to calculate losses on the additional Capital Gains 
Tax (CGT) liability arising from investing the funds in a stocks and shares ISA rather 
than a non-stocks and shares ISA  but the business has refused to change its 
position. 
In this instance the business carried out its process correctly and carried out the 
instructions provided by Mr H. But it wasnt acknowledged that he provided the wrong 
account number, so to compensate him for that, the business has offered to pay 
twice as much as what we would normally recommend. 
Our service doesnt have punitive powers, and notwithstanding what Mr H says about 
his future plans to invest, the offer by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres 
lengthy correspondence between Mr H and the investigator. He also, during the course of 
this correspondence, provided a number of attachments and, in short, made the following 
key points:
He hasnt been provided with any evidence of his visit to the business. But it isnt 
correct that there isnt any information on this issue. 
Theres a recording of the call on 20 November 2020, between Mr H and an agent, 
when the error was first discovered. He was given the incorrect account number, not 
as the business says that it was his mistake.  
He doesnt accept that the business completed the transfer based on his withdrawal 
instructions, as per the box ticked. He didnt tick the box that he wanted to transfer to 
a non-ISA account. He also entered the account number in the section for the ISA 
account, and left blank the section needed to transfer to a non-ISA account.
In other words, he ticked the box instructing the business to transfer to his ISA 
account, not the non-ISA account. 
In the internal mail dated 17 February 2021, a customer relations manager said: 
whats the point in having these sections on the form if we dont take notice of them. 
Not only was the wrong account number used as a result of the wrong information 
provided by the business, but there was a discrepancy between the box ticked, the 
section of the form and the account number given. The business noted that the 
discrepancy wouldve been flagged up on the computer to the member of staff who 
handled the form, but they negligently ignored it or failed to notice it. 
The business shouldve checked with Mr H by email or phone before processing the 
form and transferring the funds. Despite what the investigator says, the business accepts that its process wasnt 
followed.
oIn an email dated 17 February 2021, the business (customer relations) states:
From reviewing this case with (name anonymised) and other 
Managers within the area, we believe that we have made errors. 
Weve failed to carry out the customers instructions with due diligence 
and failed to contact the member to ask for clarity. 
oIn an email dated 22 February 2021, the business (savings operations 
technical manager) states:
I absolutely agree that our service standards have not been met in 
this scenario and we should be looking to rectify that with the 
customer, compensating them as deemed necessary. 
oEmail dated 3 March 2021 the business states:
We have failed you and should compensate you for tax loss. 
The crux of the complaint is whether or not the redress is suitable, and hed ask our 
service to consider whether HMRC could be given the opportunity to consider this. 
The guidance referred to says that the loss should be based on the actual expected 
loss. The five years was recommended as a reasonable assumption about how long 
a customer might have kept the cash ISA before using the cash to meet expenses in 
the absence of other evidence about individual financial circumstances. The 
guidance doesnt say that five years should be applied in all circumstances 
regardless of evidence that suggest that the funds wouldnt have been needed at five 
years.  
He doesnt accept the investigators suggestion that he might be to blame for the 
businesss error. Theres no evidence that this is the case. 
When the business wrote to Mr H to confirm his instructions it made no suggestion 
that it had transferred his funds to a non-ISA account. 
The investigator suggests that the funds wouldve transferred into a cash ISA, but her 
findings dont explain why she overlooked what wouldve happened to the funds 
subsequently  including evidence that the funds were transferred to a stocks and 
shares ISA, and evidence that it was always the plan. 
oRegarding the two sides of the maturity instruction form, the boxes on the 
side that offered a fixed term ISA were left blank as his intention was to 
transfer the funds to a stocks and shares ISA which required the funds to be 
moved to an instant access cash ISA. 
Even if it hadnt been the case, the investigator still overlooked the interest that 
wouldve been claimed.    
The Bank of England base rate has increased significantly since the error, as a result 
the base rate used is now known to be inaccurate. 
The interest used to calculate compensation was 0.55%, from October 2022 the rate 
will increase to 1.85%, which is substantially higher than the rate used by the 
business.
An extract from his Investing Ethically investment report shows that Mr H contacted 
the business looking to explore investment planning options. 
Hed built up £800,000 and was keen to invest £500,000 for longer term growth. For 
the new investments he was keen to engage with a financial adviser specialising in 
ethical investments. Hed used his ISA allowance for the current year but wanted to 
use future tax years to maximise tax efficiency. The adviser said that theyd move his 
investments across into ISAs every year, to help reduce tax for him.  
The investigator having considered Mr Hs additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Mr H provided details for a non-ISA account to which the funds were transferred. During this particular maturity period the business had 125,000 accounts maturing at 
the same time. Although Mr H feels the business shouldve queried the details, he 
provided a valid account number for the only account he had with the business, so 
the funds were transferred to it. In the circumstances, the business actions were 
reasonable. 
When Mr H opened the easy access account in December 2019, he received a copy 
of the terms and conditions which he agreed to before proceeding.  
He opened the account with £46,000 and opened one of the ISA products available 
at the time. But due to the maximum ISA limits, he wouldnt have been able to put the 
full amount into the ISA. 
Mr H was sent a welcome pack, specific to the non-ISA account. This suggests that 
this was the only account he had with the business. 
Mr H signed the maturity instruction form on 18 May 2020, which the business 
received on 28 May 2020, and it processed the application the following day. 
Following this it sent Mr H a letter asking him to notify it immediately of any changes. 
Mr H didnt query this but only got in touch several months later, on 20 November 
2020. 
The crux of the complaint is whether the redress is fair and reasonable, and she 
believes it is. 
The business is unable to find any evidence that Mr H visited the branch between 
December 2019 and May 2020. The store was also shut between 26 March and 17 
June 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
His account was only accessed on 5 December 2019, by the processing team who 
issued the application pack. The next time the account was accessed was on 28 May 
2020 when his instructions were processed. 
The three options for the ISA maturity instructions were all cash ISA options. Theres 
no evidence of Mr Hs intention to invest in a stocks and shares ISA. 
In other words, he was sent the pre-maturity instructions outlining his options, 
including what to do if he wanted to re-invest in another ISA. He filled out the form 
asking the business to transfer to a non-ISA account.  
The business offered redress thats double what this service would. 
In the circumstances, she doesnt think the business needs to contact HMRC. 
Shes seen nothing to persuade her she should change her view.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, in this instance I dont 
think the business behaved unreasonably as such by transferring the funds to a non-ISA 
account as per the account details supplied by him on the form. However, I think the 
business missed an opportunity to gain clarity on Mr Hs instructions such that its service 
standards probably werent met. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the (goodwill) offer made by the business is 
broadly fair and reasonable. Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mr Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address/answer every single point/question raised. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him, and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I note that the business provided Mr H with the form inviting him to provide instructions about 
what to do with his maturing fixed rate ISA in the sum of £63,645. I note on the form Mr H 
ticked the box next to the instructions to close his account and transfer all funds to existing 
Coventry Building Society ISA(s) below. Underneath the box, in the same section he 
entered the account number, which at the time he believed belonged to the ISA account, but 
it didnt. 
I note Mr H says that this belief appears to have arisen from a confusion between an easy 
access ISA account he previously held and his Coventry easy access (non-ISA) account. 
But he made clear that he didnt tick or fill out the section next to the instructions to transfer 
to the non-ISA account which I accept. 
Having received the form, I note the business transferred the maturing funds from the ISA to 
a non-ISA account. In other words, in response to receiving the form, in my opinion the 
business did what it was asked to do  namely transfer the maturing funds to the account 
supplied by Mr H  I cant necessarily fault the business for doing this, and following 
instructions, despite what his true intentions might have been. This is principally what is at 
the heart of this complaint.   
Despite what Mr H says, this probably doesnt represent a breach of agreement either  
between him and the business  on the contrary, the business did what it was asked to do 
by him in terms of transferring the funds to a specified account number, as I believe it was 
obliged to at the time. On balance, I also dont accept that the business transferred the funds 
to the incorrect account number. I appreciate Mr H doesnt agree with this, but I dont think 
the businesss current objections on this point are unreasonable. I dont accept this was the 
same as Please transfer the funds to the Queen of the United Kingdom, Joe Biden, as 
suggested by Mr H in his correspondence with the business. 
I note the form had sections  which I will come back to below  one for transferring funds to 
the Coventry ISA account and one for transferring to a Coventry non-ISA account. But Mr H 
filled out the ISA account section but supplied a non-ISA account number which is behind 
this complaint  I dont think I can blame the business for this. 
Im aware the form has separate sections for different instructions  one of these sections is 
for transferring funds to a Coventry ISA account, another for transferring funds to a Coventry 
non-ISA account. I note each section also contains a tick box, indicative of the investors 
intentions. But importantly, each section also provides a section for the account number for 
the fund receiving account. Putting aside for a moment, the ISA and non-ISA account status, 
if a customer ticks a certain box, this might show their intention, but if the customer then 
enters an incorrect account number  the funds are likely to be transferred to the specified 
account. In my opinion, and notwithstanding the basis of my uphold, responsibility to ensure the correct account number is entered lies with the customer and isnt something I can 
blame the business for. 
I appreciate Mr H didnt deliberately insert the incorrect account number, but nevertheless he 
did so inadvertently and without any assistance or guidance from the business at the time. 
So, I cant say the business did anything wrong in this regard. Despite what Mr H says, I also 
cant safely say that the form wasnt clear or fair and was misleading in breach of FCA 
principle 7 and COBs 4.2. If Mr H had any objections about how the form was laid out or 
wanted to double check his own instructions (and account number) he couldve done so at 
the time. 
I appreciate what Mr H says about how he came to be in possession of the account number 
in question. But despite what he says, on balance, I cant safely say that this was the case. 
In other words, I cant safely say that the business gave him the account number on the 
basis that it was the correct number for an ISA account as opposed to a non-ISA account. 
Its possible that I could be wrong about this, and its exactly how he came to be in 
possession of the account number, but on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what he says, I cant safely say that this was (more likely than not) the case. 
But despite what Mr H says, on balance I dont think the business was routinely obliged to go 
behind a customers instructions in order to double check or confirm the account details. I 
dont accept Mr Hs argument that in the circumstances the business was under an 
obligation to email him or call him before processing what is otherwise a standard application 
and routine fund transfer. 
Im conscious that the business couldve, but in this instance and on balance, I dont think it 
was required to and realistically (probably) couldnt do for every customer  so I cant blame 
the business for not doing so in this case. In my opinion, and on balance, there wasnt 
anything on the face of the document that meant the business knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known, that the instructions werent in line with Mr Hs true intentions when processing 
the form. And given how many of these requests were likely to have been processed at or 
around the same time as Mr Hs request  I note the investigator says around 125,000 
investments matured around this time  Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business was 
even aware that there was an issue/discrepancy that Mr H refers to. 
On balance, it seems the business probably missed the product type when processing the 
form and therefore missed an opportunity to check the account details with Mr H. But I cant 
say that the business is to blame such that it should be liable to pay the losses claimed by 
Mr H. 
It seems that this was the only other account Mr H had with the business and that the names 
were near identical, so it (probably) did not ring any alarm bells. On balance, it also doesnt 
necessarily mean that the business didnt read the instructions properly or didnt transfer to 
the specified account. Any suggestion that the business would, of its own volition, transfer to 
an account number Mr H didnt provide is untenable.
I also note the business said that Mr Hs initial investment superseded the maximum 
investment allowed to be deposited in an ISA, so it couldve reasonably assumed that Mr H 
knew exactly what he was doing. It could also be argued that the instructions to the ISA 
account couldnt have been processed in any event.  I note the business said:
"We can also take the view that you understood these T&Cs because of your initial 
investment. This equalled £46,000 and supersedes the maximum investment allowed to be 
deposited in an ISA."I appreciate Mr H will disagree with my conclusion, but in the circumstances and on balance, 
for the reasons set out above  considering all of the evidence and not just some of the 
internal correspondence, I dont think my conclusion is unreasonable.  
I appreciate Mr H has repeatedly said that he kept blank the section of the form allocated to 
transfer to a non-ISA account. But the business isnt obliged to act on the basis of whats 
been left blank, rather its obliged to transfer the funds to the account number provided and 
thats what it has done. 
Notwithstanding the business internal comments and discussions  and my decision to 
uphold this complaint  I cant safely say that compensation should be paid on the basis 
claimed by Mr H. 
 
Im conscious that the business accepts it missed an opportunity to gain clarity on Mr Hs 
instructions, and that its service standards havent been met, and feedback has been 
provided to the relevant area. 
Based on internal documents it seems the business couldve double checked the 
instructions/account number, so its possible that its in breach of FCA principle 2 due skill, 
care and diligence I note the business accepts that it lacked due diligence. Even if it is, its 
still not a reason to uphold this compliant on the basis claimed by Mr H. 
Im aware, Mr H says that the business only changed its position once it learnt of the extent 
of his tax losses  but Im not persuaded that it has. Notwithstanding its internal 
communication and discussion, in which its entitled to freely discuss the issue and consider 
different viewpoints within the business, it hasnt agreed just to uphold this complaint on the 
basis claimed by Mr H.  
On balance, Im persuaded that the business decided the case on a somewhat limited and 
discrete basis, and consequently thereafter offered a (goodwill) payment. I note the business 
says that it offered compensation on the basis that Mr H had made a genuine error when 
completing the tax form, which I dont think is unreasonable but in my opinion, it also 
includes the business missing an opportunity to gain clarity.   
Im aware that Mr H thinks this goes nowhere near to paying for the tax losses  and has his 
own ideas about how the business should calculate this amount  but he should be aware 
that this payment isnt for financial loss, rather its a voluntary goodwill payment, 
notwithstanding Mr Hs oversight, and the businesss oversight. 
I note Mr Hs argument about the interest rate  which he says is a historic low in interest 
rates and not reflective of the actual interest rate  used to calculate the redress, but I dont 
think its unreasonable in this instance. And neither is the business refusing to accept Mr Hs 
position regarding his future instructions about what he should do with the money. I dont 
think the either claim is engaged on the basis of the uphold.
I appreciate Mr H will be very unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. But on the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, despite what he says, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give him what he wants. 
Putting things right
Coventry Building Society should pay Mr H the £1,520.37 offered unless it has done so 
already. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Coventry Building Society should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman