DRN-4406674
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is brought to us by her representative, who Ill refer to as Mr B 
Mrs L complains that she received a poor level of service from National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) when her representative asked to be added to her account. 
What happened
Around September last year, following being issued with an interim deputyship order, Mr B 
tried to gain access to Mrs Ls account. The interim order was granted as Mr B needed to 
make payment on Mrs Ls behalf for a new boiler. NatWest refused to accept the interim 
order and asked that Mr B provide a full deputyship. Following the refusal, NatWest also 
placed blocks on Mrs Ls account for security reasons. Mrs L is vulnerable, she suffers from 
dementia and is under local authority care. As a result of what NatWest did, Mr B says she 
experienced the following problems:
bills were left unpaid, so Mrs Ls telephone line was terminated
multiple payments Mrs L was due to receive from the Department of Work and 
Pensions were returned 
Mrs L received numerous final demands and red notice letters from a utility provider 
and the local authority for overdue council tax
Mrs L had to face the prospect of being moved to a higher energy tariff because her 
bill hadnt been paid
Mr B spent a lot of time pursuing NatWest to resolve this matter, including spending 
time using the banks chat service
Mr B says that, in trying to resolve this matter and add the relevant parties to the account, he 
experienced poor service from the bank. He says he was made to visit a branch to complete 
the relevant form in order to be registered on the account, but later found that the bank 
asked him to fill in the wrong form. This further delayed the registration process. Mr B also 
experienced problems receiving his bank card.
To resolve the complaint, Mr B asks that NatWest changes its processes to avoid such 
issues occurring again, he wants confirmation that the bank acted illegally and for it to 
recognise that there couldve been more severe consequences for Mrs L, had Mr B not 
intervened. Mr B adds that he wants NatWest to be reprimanded for what it did wrong.
By the time Mr B asked this service to get involved, NatWest accepted that it had carried out 
multiple failings. The bank agreed to cover all overdue payments that Mrs L missed because 
her account had blocks placed on it  this totalled £279.36. NatWest agreed to cover any 
late payment fees too. 
The bank offered a total of £2,500 compensation to Mrs L and Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. NatWest also wrote to all affected third-party businesses, 
letting them know that it was the banks wrongdoing that led to Mrs Ls late payments, so her 
credit record wouldnt be affected. The bank also sent Mrs L flowers to apologise for what it 
had done wrong and provided Mr B with a way to pay for the boiler replacement using 
Mrs Ls funds.
Our investigator concluded that the banks resolution was fair. Mr B asked for a final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to point out that Ive summarised the background of this complaint in less detail than 
the parties. Thats because Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this and reflects the informal nature of our service. If theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome. The parties can be 
reassured Ive considered everything that Mr B and NatWest have said before reaching my 
decision.
NatWest already accepts that it treated Mrs L and her representative unfairly and it doesnt 
seem to be disputing the complaint points Mr B has put forward. So I dont need to make a 
finding on whether I think it did something wrong as the bank already accepts that it has. Im 
aware that Mr B would like to know if NatWest acted illegally. Although it is within my remit to 
consider relevant rules and regulations to decide whether NatWest has acted fairly, it isnt for 
me to determine whether the bank has acted illegally. Ultimately, the bank accepts its 
wrongdoing here and Im satisfied its acceptance falls in line with what I wouldve decided it 
did wrong.
So all that remains is for me to reach a finding on is whether the steps NatWest has taken to 
put right its wrongdoing fairly settles this complaint. To put things right, NatWest offered 
Mrs L £2,000 compensation, sent her flowers as an apology, and covered the cost of her 
outstanding bills  as well as leaving it open to her to have the bank cover any late payment 
fees she incurs. NatWest also wrote to all affected third-party businesses, informing them of 
the banks error and asking that Mrs L credit record isnt affected. In my opinion, NatWest 
has taken reasonable steps to prevent Mrs L suffering further distress, inconvenience, or 
financial loss. I also think the compensation the bank has offered her is fair.
I understand Mr B experienced a fair amount of inconvenience in trying to resolve this 
matter. Although NatWest has offered him £500 compensation, it isnt within my remit to 
consider whether this amount is fair. Mr Bs role in this complaint is as a representative of 
Mrs L. This service can only make compensation awards to eligible complainants, which is 
defined under the Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP rules (DISP 2.7.3R). Given that, under 
the rules, Mr B isnt considered to be an eligible complainant, nor can I see that the 
inconvenience he experienced had an impact on Mrs L  I cant make a decision on whether 
the £500 NatWest has offered him is reasonable. 
Mr B wants NatWest to change its processes so the problems he experienced do not 
happen again. He also wants the bank to be reprimanded. However, my remit doesnt 
extend to telling NatWest how it should conduct its banking services or what processes it 
should follow. Thats for the bank to decide and its for the regulator to ensure NatWest 
adheres to its rules. I can only decide whether NatWest has acted fairly and, if not, what it 
should do to put things right.Moreover, any awards this service makes are made whilst keeping in mind that consumers 
should be put back in the position they wouldve been, had the unfairness or wrongdoing not 
occurred. And any compensation award should reasonably put right the impact of the 
distress or inconvenience a consumer has experienced because of the wrongdoing. It isnt 
this services role to punish or fine businesses either, so I cant reprimand NatWest in the 
way Mr B expects me to.
Mr B says the impact of NatWests wrongdoing couldve been more severe for Mrs L, given 
her health. He says that NatWest needs to recognise this point. I dont disagree with what 
Mr B says and I dont doubt that the consequences couldve been more severe, had he not 
noticed something was wrong and intervened to help Mrs L. But I cant ask NatWest to take 
action for something that couldve happened  I can only consider what actually happened. 
As I explained earlier, in my opinion, NatWest has taken reasonable steps to put right what 
happened because of what it did wrong.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that NatWest has recognised its actions were unfair and that the 
impact on Mrs L caused her distress and inconvenience. I think NatWests compensation 
offer and the steps it has taken to prevent Mrs L being impacted further is fair. So my 
decision is that I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided that National Westminster Bank Plc has already put 
forward a fair resolution, so Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman