DRN-3751405
The complaint
Mr K complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) failed to issue him with a new debit card when he 
visited one of its branches.  
What happened
Mr K says he visited a branch of Metro in London in early December 2021 and requested a 
new debit card to be produced as he couldnt locate his existing debit card. Mr K says he 
was told that wasnt available to him due to systems/policies and issues. Mr K says he had 
gone to the expense of ordering a taxi to visit the branch and this had been an expensive 
waste of a journey and his time. Mr K says Metro shouldnt advertise a service it cant 
provide. 
Mr K says he also experienced poor service with Metro dealing with his complaint and is 
looking for Metro to increase its offer of compensation of £50 to cover his travel expenses 
and the inconvenience and stress he has gone through. 
Metro says it accepts it could have be clearer when Mr K visited its branch to explain the 
debit card couldnt be replaced immediately, as he hadnt used the card or the bank account 
since September 2016 and the debit card had been blocked for inactivity. Metro says it also 
apologised for the poor communication after Mr K had complained, but a new debit card was 
issued to him a few days following the initial branch visit. Metro felt the £50 compensation 
payment it had made in February 2022 was fair and it didnt feel it should be asked to refund 
the full cost of a taxi Mr K had used, bearing in mind it wasnt his local branch he had visited. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Metros response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says he couldnt look at the issue regarding Metros complaint handling, as this 
is not a regulated activity. The investigator felt although Metro had admitted it made an error 
when Mr K requested a new debit card, as he hadnt provided any further detailed 
information he was unable to determine what else Metro could have done to put things right 
beyond the £50 in compensation it had paid.  
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr K to have taken the time to visit a 
Metro branch to obtain a new debit card, only to learn it couldnt be provided to him.
The first thing to say here is and as the investigator has explained, its not the role of this 
service to scrutinise Metros complaints process or to tell Metro how it should deal with 
complaints more widely. But here, my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of the complaint. And so, I will consider if Metro could have done 
more when Mr K visited one of its London based branches, to obtain a replacement debit 
card and if its offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mr Ks complaint centres around the fact he had chosen Metro as a bank, as he was aware 
debit cards could be issued in branch unlike some of its competitors. Then having gone to 
the expense of visiting a branch to do that, he was told he couldnt have a debit card that 
day. Mr K is unhappy this has caused him inconvenience both in wasted time and a costly 
taxi fare. 
While I understand the point Mr K makes here Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this as its worth mentioning Mr K hadnt made use of his debit card for over five years when 
he decided he now needed a replacement  so its fair to say Mr K wasnt reliant on this 
bank account for his day to day needs. 
While I fully understand that Mr K might now require to use this bank account, its not 
unreasonable for Metro to have blocked the card given the length of time the account had 
lain dormant. Having said that I do accept when Mr K visited one of its branches, it might 
have been clearer explaining this to him. 
Its also fair to say Mr K took the decision to visit a branch some miles away from his starting 
destination, without trying to establish if there was an alternative way of obtaining a debit 
card, for example online or by telephone. I havent been provided with any evidence to 
suggest Metro directed him or told him to visit the branch he did in central London, bearing in 
mind Mr K has told this service he was in Surrey at that time. So, while Mr K seems to have 
incurred a costly taxi journey that was a decision he took, and Metro were never informed of 
his requirements, until he turned up at the branch. 
What is clear is Metro did provide Mr K with a new debit card three days after his initial 
request in branch, and given the previous card hadnt been used for over five years, I cant 
say that in all likelihood this would have caused Mr K any major financial inconvenience 
here. 
Thats not to say Mr K wouldnt have experienced some frustration and inconvenience here 
he did, but Metro have apologised and paid him £50 for that, which I am satisfied is fair in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
While Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Metro here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman