DRN-3907574
The complaint
Mr L complains that Grove Pension Solutions Limited wrongly advised him to transfer his 
defined benefit pension to a personal pension and about the affect this had on this lifetime 
allowance. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr L met a financial adviser (who I will call B) to get some advice about his 
retirement. He had a defined benefit (DB) pension from his employer, which would provide a 
pension based on his salary and length of service. Mr L wanted advice on where to invest 
the proposed £200,000 tax free cash he would receive from his pension and advice on his 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA). 
B raised the option of transferring his pension and referred Mr L to Grove for further advice 
about his options as it wasnt able to advise him about transferring a DB pension.
Grove completed a fact find document with Mr L and then gave its recommendations in 
August 2020. The documents recorded that:
Mr L was aged 60 and married. His wife was 58. They were both retired.
Mr & Mrs L owned their own home which was worth £875,000 with no mortgage.
They had some health issues but these didnt impact on daily life.
Mr & Mrs L had £87,000 in savings and no debts.
Their monthly expenditure was £3,890.
Mr Ls retirement needs and objectives were noted as:
To look at options and the best way to access his DB pension.
For Mrs L to benefit from the full value of the pension after Mr Ls death.
To have flexibility and control over the way benefits were paid.
Mr Ls DB pension had a transfer value of £1,683,257. He also had another personal 
pension which was already in drawdown and had a current fund value of £11,500.
Mrs L had a DB pension, which had a transfer value of £565,000 and was projected to pay 
£16,000 per year at age 60. She also had another DB pension from a previous employment 
projected to pay £6,000 per year from age 65, and a money purchase scheme which was 
already in drawdown with a current fund value of £56,000.
On retirement at age 60 Mr Ls DB pension would provide an income of about £47,000 per 
year. Alternatively, he could opt to take tax free cash of £236,335 and a reduced income of 
£35,450.
Mr Ls attitude to risk was noted as medium, which was described as follows: I would 
prefer to invest in a broad spread of sectors.I accept the likelihood of capital loss, 
especially during periods of market volatility, particularly since roughly half of my fund would 
be invested in the stock market.
Mr L was recorded as having some investment knowledge and understanding.
A Defined Benefit Pension Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) had been undertaken. This 
showed the cost of replacing the scheme benefits would be £2,040,000, compared to a 
transfer value of £1,683,257.
Grove recommended that Mr L transfer the DB pension to a personal pension and invest in 
various funds, and told him he could apply for fixed protection 2016 (a form of protection that 
would provide a larger LTA). Grove also recommended that Mr L take £3,916.66 gross per 
month, with 25% tax-free and 75% taxable, and said this would equate to £3,537.49 net.
Grove provided details of the charges he would have to pay. Grove would take an initial fee 
of £14,166.29, while B would receive a fixed fee of £7,500 and 1% per year for ongoing 
servicing. He was also given details of the fund charges and administration costs.
Mr L crystalised £1,065,000 of his pension and accessed a lump sum of £266,000. He had 
obtained fixed protection 2016. But he then found he wasnt in fact eligible for this protection, 
so when he attempted to take the tax free cash this left him with a higher LTA tax charge 
than he would have had otherwise.
Mr L complained to Grove. In its response to the complaint Grove sad it hadnt done 
anything wrong, and had never said Mr L was eligible for fixed protection  only that he could 
apply for it.
When Mr L referred his complaint to this service our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
The investigator said a fair outcome would be to try and put Mr L in the position he would 
have been in, if he hadnt been advised to transfer. He said without that advice it was likely 
Mr L would have taken his full tax free cash and reduced pension under his DB scheme at 
age 60. He asked Grove to
do a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance, as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on 
how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers and if this showed there 
was a loss, make a payment to cover that loss; and
calculate the LTA charge that would have been payable by Mr L if he had stayed in 
the DB scheme and taken the full tax free cash, compared with the LTA charge he 
would have to pay if he crystallises £1,250,000 from his current pension, to see what 
additional tax charge Mr L would incur.
The investigator also said Grove should pay compensation of £300 to Mr L for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to him.
Finally, the investigator noted that the FCA is consulting on possible changes to the FG17/9 
guidance and said Mr L should have the option of waiting for the compensation to be 
calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that might come into force.
Grove said it didnt agree with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision, but 
didnt provide any further comments.
Mr L accepted the outcome but made a number of comments about the proposed remedy. 
Amongst other things, he said:
Grove received a fee of over £14,000 for the pension transfer  none of this fee 
would have been payable if he had not transferred his pension, so it should be 
refunded.
In order to regain the benefits the DB pension provided he would need to buy an 
annuity that mirrors the income and terms that would have been provided. Grove will 
calculate the cost of providing such an annuity using the calculations set out in 
FP17/9. Grove will need to recognise that not all of the funds in the pension are available to buy an annuity  an LTA charge will be payable on the uncrystallised 
portion. So the net value will need to be used to see whether theres a shortfall or 
surplus.
Adjustments will need to be made to the net pension value. If the annuity cost is 
greater than the adjusted net pension value a redress payment will be due to make 
up the shortfall.
It wont be possible to add any redress payments back into the pension, so the 
payments will need to be made to him personally and would be subject to an overall 
deduction of 15% to reflect a notional deduction of income tax.
His remaining LTA at his retirement date was £914,388. The value of his DB pension 
for LTA purposes was £946,329  an excess of £31,941. He was keen to avoid 
paying any unnecessary tax and concluded that if he restricted his tax free 
withdrawal to £200,000 the total received (including £37,000 from his other pension) 
would be below 25% of his LTA and so would avoid paying tax at the 55% rate.
The investigators view indicates that Grove should calculate what the LTA charge 
would have been if hed had stayed in the DB scheme and taken the full tax free cash 
 and that charge should be calculated on a gross LTA of £1.25m, otherwise it would 
generate a charge that wouldnt have arisen in reality.
He had already crystallised 14.79% of his LTA when he drew down his other pension 
so his remaining LTA under FP2016 would have only been £1,065,125. The actual 
LTA tax cost was calculated against this figure and so any adjustment would also 
need to be calculated against the same figure. If Grove uses the full £1.25m figure he 
will receive a benefit that he couldnt have received.
He has already crystallised his full remaining LTA of £914,388 (based on the current 
allowance of £1.073m). Any future increases to the allowance will be of no benefit.
He was prepared to accept an LTA of £1.25m but that was on the basis of the advice 
he would be better of transferring his DB pension. If hadnt transferred the pension he 
wouldnt have any LTA tax liabilities to deal with. If, on the day he receives any 
redress payment, hes unable to discharge the tax liability and buy an annuity that 
provides a comparable pension to the one he would have received, he will be worse 
off as he wont be able to put himself back in the position he would have been in, if 
the pension transfer had not happened. This doesnt feel fair.
If he crystallises the remaining uncrystallised pension now and Grove pays the 
resulting tax bill, its possible he will end up in a better position if the newly 
crystallised funds grow in value, which would then be LTA free. But any calculation 
will always be an imperfect solution. The main components of the calculation seem to 
be the current cost of a comparable annuity and the current value of the pension 
fund. Both of these figures will change on a daily basis, so whatever figure the 
calculations produce, the figure will change within a few days which may or may not 
be to either partys benefit. The proposal appears to impose a real financial cost to 
him in order to avoid a potential betterment risk in future, which does not seem fair.
At the time of the transfer his remaining LTA was £914,388, which would have given 
rise to tax free cash of £228,597. With the benefit of FP2016 he was led to believe 
his remaining LTA would increase to £1,065,125, which would have increased the tax 
free cash available to £266,281. Having originally crystallised his pension based on 
those figures, it turned out he had crystallised more than he was entitled to. The 
position has now been corrected resulting in additional costs to him. 
If the annuity cost is greater than the adjusted net pension value referred to above 
the direct cost can be offset against any payment due, which will prevent this sum 
being paid twice.
If the annuity cost is less than the adjusted net pension value the additional costs 
should still be payable  these are real costs hes suffered and he shouldnt be 
disadvantaged due to annuity costs having fallen since the errors were made.
The final payment due will need to be paid to him directly as its not possible to add this to the pension.
The investigator considered all the points Mr L raised but explained that they didnt lead him 
to change his view. He also said he didnt think there should be any further refund of fees 
back to the pension as the charges would be considered when completing the loss 
assessment under FG 17/9.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional view saying I also intended to uphold the complaint but my proposed remedy was 
a little different. I set out my reasoning as follows:
When giving advice on a transfer from a DB pension, the relevant guidance says an adviser 
should start by assuming that a transfer will not be suitable. A firm should only consider a 
transfer to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transfer is in the client's best interests.
So the starting point is that theres a presumption against transferring and to justify the 
advice to transfer, Grove would need to clearly demonstrate it was in Mr Ls best interests. 
Ive considered the reasons given for recommending the transfer in order to consider 
whether Grove has demonstrated this.
The transfer value comparator (TVC) showed the cost to replace the DB scheme benefits 
would be £2,040,000, meaning it would cost considerably more to get the same benefits by 
transferring.
Grove advised Mr L that he could be £181,000 better off but the effect of an LTA charge 
wasnt taken into account for this calculation, so it didnt consider the potential tax charge. 
Overall, the transfer value wasnt generous compared to the benefits Mr L was giving up; it 
was likely the benefits he would receive were of less value and so a transfer didnt make 
sense for him financially. Mr L had very little need to risk giving up the pension available to 
him through his DB scheme and it was highly unlikely hed be able to match the benefits 
offered by his DB scheme from the personal pension.
So Ive considered whether the other reasons for transferring were enough to justify it  
essentially that it would give him more flexibility and control, in particular in relation to 
providing death benefits for his wife.
Grove said Mr L wanted more flexibility and control over how to take his benefits. But the 
evidence didnt show he needed this or that this would outweigh the benefits of the DB 
scheme, taking into account he already had some flexibility, and the ability to take tax free 
cash together with his other pension provision and savings. And he would also be taking on 
all the investment risk.
I appreciate death benefits are important and Mr L may have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. But the fact that someone 
has shown an interest in something doesnt necessarily mean it is suitable for them. The 
priority was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement  the main purpose of a 
pension is to provide income in retirement. I dont think Grove explored to what extent he 
was willing to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. I also 
think the existing benefits in the DB scheme were downplayed.
Any wishes Mr L had relating to death benefits and leaving them as a lump sum for his wife 
should not have outweighed his need to benefit from his pension; providing more flexible 
death benefits should have been weighed against the guaranteed benefits he would be 
giving up.Mr L said that when he first contacted B, transferring his pension hadnt occurred to him; he 
wanted advice on where to invest the proposed £200,000 tax free cash from his DB pension 
and advice on his LTA, and the decision to transfer or not came down to which option would 
be cheapest and have the lowest LTA charge.
Grove did provide the potential tax charge but told Mr L he could apply for protection and 
gave him a link to the government website for more information. But the website didnt 
enable Mr L to check whether he was eligible  it doesnt provide the eligibility criteria. I cant 
see a good reason for the adviser to tell Mr L he could apply if they knew he wasnt eligible 
and its reasonable to assume Mr L would have been led to believe he was eligible. Grove 
should have explained to him that he wasnt eligible.
Although Mr L sought advice on the LTA from B, it wasnt reasonable for Grove not to 
include this as part of the transfer advice when it was a fundamental aspect of it. By not 
taking into account the charge Grove failed to give Mr L everything he needed to make an 
informed decision.
The flexibility, control and potential for lump sum death benefits provided by a personal 
pension would have sounded attractive. But Groves role wasnt just to transact what Mr L 
might have thought he wanted. Its role was to really understand what Mr L needed and  
recommend what was in his best interests. Ultimately, I dont think the advice was suitable.
Mr L was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income when he didnt need to. In 
my view there were no particular reasons to justify a transfer. And it led to the potential for a 
much higher tax charge. Mr L could have met his retirement needs either by staying with his 
existing DB pension or transferring, but the safest route would have been to keep his 
existing benefits and save any excess income into tax efficient savings. Instead, he 
transferred his pension and in doing so incurred a substantial tax charge that could have 
been avoided.
If Mr L had known the true position regarding his tax liability its unlikely he would have gone 
ahead with the transfer. He didnt need to transfer his DB pension to meet his retirement 
needs and could have met his desired standard of living without doing that. The evidence 
doesnt show that the transfer was clearly in his best interests and it left him open to risks 
that he didnt need to take.
If Grove had provided clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think Mr L would have accepted that advice  particularly 
as he hadnt originally thought about transferring and this only came up after he sought 
advice.
Taking all of this into account I agree Grove should compensate Mr L in accordance with the 
17/9 guidance.
By transferring his pension Mr L would face additional tax charges. Its fair and reasonable 
that this additional loss is covered as it wont be included in the usual DB transfer redress 
guidance. Its impossible to say how much extra Mr L will have to pay by transferring out of 
the DB scheme. Its complex and will depend on many factors including when Mr L will die, 
how he will use his pensions and what returns he will achieve in his personal pension. No 
award will be perfect and Mr Ls actual LTA charges might be higher or lower in future. 
Mr L  has made detailed comments in reply to the investigators view, including various 
scenarios that might happen and how these might affect the compensation he should 
receive, together with different ways of calculating the loss. I have only summarised his 
comments but have considered them all carefully. As Ive explained, its impossible to cover every situation that might arise or predict what his exact losses might be. However, I think 
its reasonable to make an award now and bring finality to this complaint and certainty for the 
benefit of both parties.
Mr L crystalised £1,065,000 of his pension. I understand the remaining sum of around 
£620,000 remains uncrystallised. Ive taken this into account when considering how to put 
things right, as set out below.
I said a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I considered he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. So my provisional decision was that Grove should  
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. I set out in detail the 
directions I intended to make in relation to that.
I said Grove should also pay compensation for future LTA charges. Again, I set out in detail 
how that should be dealt with
I also said that if both parties preferred, Grove could give an undertaking to Mr L to pay any 
LTA charges he incurs in future (not taking into account further contributions or new pension 
arrangements). I invited the parties comments on this.
Finally, I agreed that a payment of £300 was fair for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr L. 
Replies to the provisional decision 
Mr L has accepted the provisional decision, which he says provides a fair way to remedy his 
complaint. With regard to the suggestion that Grove might give an undertaking to pay any 
future LTA costs, he would prefer to settle the matter now.
Grove does not accept the findings in the provisional decision or the proposed remedy. It 
has made detailed comments. I wont set them all out in full but they include:
Mr Ls complaint was initially that it gave incorrect advice on his eligibility for LTA 
protection. He also said he knew of the significant tax charge and there appeared to 
be protection against that. It denied this, as Mr L had acted entirely against the 
recommendation provided and sought advice from B.
A lot of weight has been given to meeting a clients interests in not losing a 
guaranteed income, even where not dependent on that income. Not enough weight is 
given to what Mr L determined was more important to him - which is not taking 
income directly from the pension scheme. Mr L had a full understanding and made 
an informed decision on what was in his own best interests. 
He said he wanted to make a decision on whether a cash transfer would be a better 
choice  the potential for an enhanced pension, more flexibility and enhanced 
spouses pension were all attractive but need to be set against increased risk and the 
additional work involved in managing an investment portfolio.
His objectives were not vaguely-defined wishes but were grounded in his actual 
circumstances. 
The only thing that should be considered is that he was led to believe he would 
qualify for LTA protection. The additional tax charge Mr L is subject to is £37,864. 
And that has arisen due to failings by B.
The right measure for assessing the fairness of the transfer value and the likely 
benefits would be what was relevant to Mr L  one where any cost to get the same benefits was calculated on higher rates of return than a risk-free rate.
The advice was suitable as Mr L was able to meet his objectives of flexibility and not 
relying on a fixed and unnecessary income. His wife had her own guaranteed income 
and with the state pension then coming into play, that further reduced the need to 
make withdrawals from his transferred pension. 
If it had advised Mr L that his best interests were to receive a guaranteed income and 
not  as he had determined  to achieve his objectives, Mr L would have gone ahead 
anyway. He was entirely aware of what he was doing. And he was told about the LTA 
liability and was aware there was an LTA charge to pay in future.
Even if the complaint is upheld, the proposed remedy is not appropriate. The 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers doesnt need to be considered since he can be put 
in the same position he would have been in if he hadnt transferred  by buying an 
annuity. He would in fact be better off as hes been withdrawing income for the last 
two years and his pension pot is still able to buy an annuity thats better than what he 
would have received from his pension scheme.
Its wrong that the redress sets out two different approaches to assessing loss from 
one single event. 
If the aim is not to put Mr L in the same position he would have been in, if he hadnt 
transferred  which can be done by buying an annuity for him  then the calculation 
should be either:
- a prospective loss assessment calculating the value of the scheme benefits using 
a net 4% discount rate to age 75, with the cost of securing benefits then 
increased to account for the cost of the LTA charge; or
- a loss assessment based on the scheme benefits having become payable from 
age 60, with the capital cost of securing the ongoing scheme pension increased 
to account for the LTA charge incurred in securing those benefits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive only summarised some of the key points Grove has made, I have considered 
all of its additional comments carefully and they dont lead me to change my provisional 
view. The comments are detailed but the key points include that Mr L knew what he was 
doing and was able to make a fully informed decision; he wanted all the benefits that the 
new pension arrangements would bring and was aware of what he was giving up; and the 
provisional decision doesnt give enough weight to what Mr L determined was more 
important to him. Grove also says Mr L came to it looking for advice on a transfer.
However, this needs to be seen in the context that Mr L had not initially set out to transfer his 
pension  he had approached B for advice on how to invest the tax-free cash that he 
intended to take from his DB pension and on the LTA allowance. It was only after B raised 
the issue of a transfer that he was referred to Grove for advice on this. So rather than Mr L 
being someone who set out to get advice on a transfer and knew what his objectives in 
relation to this were, Im satisfied that his initial intention had been to take his benefits from 
his DB pension.
I appreciate that after discussing a possible transfer with Grove, he did ultimately follow its 
advice to go ahead with this. But Ive explained why I dont think that advice was suitable 
and Groves further comments dont change my view on this. I dont agree that he would 
have proceeded even if Grove had advised him not to. As Ive said, he wasnt considering a 
transfer until it was suggested to him. Although he did then set out some objectives in 
relation to flexibility and death benefits, he also made it clear that LTA was very important. Grove did refer to this and he was aware there would be a charge. But he wasnt advised 
properly about this. Grove cant pass all the responsibility for that onto B; if it was advising 
him to transfer it needed to ensure he had all the information necessary to make an informed 
decision, and he didnt. For the reasons set out previously, Im satisfied he only went ahead 
because he was led to believe he would have protection but that wasnt correct. 
Ive weighed up Groves comments about the advantages of a transfer. But the starting point 
is theres a presumption against transferring. And the onus is on Grove to show that it was in 
Mr Ls best interests, and that the benefits of a transfer outweighed the risks. I dont think it 
has demonstrated this and I remain of the view that if Mr L had  known the correct position  
its unlikely he would have gone ahead with the transfer. 
For these reasons, and the reasons in my provisional decision set out above, the complaint 
should be upheld.
Grove says even if the complaint is upheld the remedy isnt appropriate. Grove argues that 
Mr L should purchase an annuity. Its evident Mr L will benefit from flexibility by virtue of the 
position hes now in, but that has only arisen because of the unsuitable advice. And 
ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right 
instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. I see no reason to depart 
from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that there are two elements to the redress, calculated in different ways. But thats 
because there are two separate issues. The usual pension review redress calculation wont 
take into account the potential tax liability that Mr L faces. So that needs to be considered 
separately. While they may arise out of the same events, the two elements of the remedy 
are addressing different issues. The key point is whats needed to put things right, not what 
caused the problem. 
I appreciate what Grove says about the different calculations but as Ive said, they are 
dealing with different issues. They inevitably include making some assumptions about what 
might happen. I set out the reasoning in the provisional decision and see no reason to 
change this.
Mr L has said he would prefer not to seek an undertaking from Grove to pay any tax liability 
in future. Given the amount of time until he reaches 75 I think its fair and reasonable to 
provide a remedy that gives certainty to both parties now and it remains my view that the 
proposed remedy is fair in the circumstances of the case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Grove to put Mr L, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Grove must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ls acceptance of the decision.
Grove may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, compensation should be paid. Its unlikely a 
payment into the pension will be possible due to protection or allowance implications, so it 
should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date 
Grove receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Grove 
to pay Mr L.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Grove deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much has been taken off. Grove should give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance. The new rules will come into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr L whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr L.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Grove to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Grove must also pay compensation for future LTA charges. Mr L has commented on how 
this should be calculated and whether the allowance figure should be £1.25m. Essentially whats needed is a comparison of the tax Mr L would have paid if hed stayed in the DB 
pension with the tax he has paid, or will pay, as a result of transferring his pension.
Uncrystallised benefits will be tested against the LTA at age 75. I think its reasonable to 
assume that the uncrystallised amount of £620,000 (plus growth on it until age 75) will be 
tested against Mr Ls lifetime allowance at age 75. The LTA might be higher than it is now or 
lower. In the more recent past, it increased on a regular basis, but its currently frozen until 
2026. For the purpose of this calculation it should be assumed that the whole amount will be 
subject to LTA.
I have considered the regulators medium projection rate of 5% and the recommended plans 
charges of around 1%. I think applying an assumed net growth rate of 4% to the sum of 
£620,000 from the time Mr L crystalised his benefits in 2020 until he turns 75 is reasonable.
This will give Grove the amount that is likely to be subject to an LTA charge. The charges 
will be 25% of this sum and represent Mr Ls loss. So this is the amount he should be 
compensated for, together with any tax he has already paid as a result of transferring. But 
the amount being paid to Mr L now can be reinvested and achieve growth until 75. So, the 
loss amount can be discounted with the same 4% rate for the time between Mr Ls 75th 
birthday and the date of settlement.
LTA charges would also apply to any pension amount exceeding the crystalised funds at age 
75. However, given the recommendation for Mr L to take tax-free cash and regular income 
from his plan, I dont think its likely, even with growth, that his plan value will exceed the 
originally crystalised amount.
For clarity this means:
Grove must apply an assumed net growth rate of 4% to the sum of £620,000 from 
the time Mr L crystalised his benefits in 2020 until he turns 75. This will give the 
amount that is likely to be subject to an LTA charge.
The charges will be 25% of this sum.
If this amount, together with any tax Mr L has already paid as a result of transferring 
his pension, is higher than the tax he would have paid if he had not transferred, that 
sum represents Mr Ls loss and is the amount Mr L should be compensated for.
However, it needs to be considered that the amount being paid to Mr L now can be 
reinvested and achieve growth until he reaches 75. So, the loss amount can be 
discounted with the same 4% rate for the time between Mr Ls 75th birthday and the 
date of settlement.
Usually I would ask Grove to pay compensation into the pension. However, as there 
will already be LTA implications, further payment into a pension would add to this. So 
all compensation should be paid directly to Mr L as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
Finally, I agree that a payment of £300 is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr L. I appreciate he considers a higher payment would be fair but I think its a reasonable 
amount to reflect the upset caused to him on finding that the advice had not been 
appropriate and would lead to a higher tax charge.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr L within 90 days of the date Grove receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my decision to the date of settlement for any time in excess of 90 days that it takes Grove to pay Mr L (subject to the 
allowance for any delay due to data gathering for a SERPS adjustment).
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award
I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr L the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £355,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £355,000, I additionally require Grove 
Pension Solutions Limited to pay Mr L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I only require Grove Pension Solutions 
Limited to pay Mr L any interest as set out above on the sum of £355,000.
Recommendation
If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000, I recommend that Grove Pension Solutions 
Limited pays Mr L the balance. I additionally recommend that any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance be paid to Mr L.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award and would not be binding on 
Grove Pension Solutions Limited. Further, its unlikely Mr L could accept my decision and go 
to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept any decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman