DRN-3192076
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim following an 
accident under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in a car accident. He says both he and the other driver believed the other 
was at fault. He contacted Admiral to confirm what had happened. Mr H says the business 
decided he was at fault for the accident. But didnt tell him. He doesnt think the 
circumstances of the accident were investigated and isnt happy that he wasnt informed 
earlier.   
Mr H says he now has higher insurance premiums and has lost £3,400 because of Admirals 
decision to pay the claim.
Admiral says its case handler prematurely admitted liability, and it couldnt find evidence of 
an attempt to contact Mr H to inform him of its decision. It upheld this part of his complaint 
and instructed its claims department to investigate further. It also paid £150 in compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused. It didnt uphold two other points about an information 
request and a call that didnt connect. My understanding is Mr H isnt pursuing these points. 
Admiral reinvestigated the claim after issuing its final complaint response. Having done so it 
still considered Mr H was at fault for the accident. Mr H didnt think Admiral had treated him 
fairly and referred his complaint to our service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Based on the records Admiral supplied she 
thought it had shown an appropriate investigation of Mr Hs accident had now taken place. 
This included an interview with Mr H when a statement was taken. In addition to a visit to the 
site of the accident and consideration of both Mr Hs and the third partys account of what 
happened. 
Our investigator concluded that Admiral had now reasonably done enough to investigate the 
matter and reach its decision. She thought it was fair for it to pay £150 compensation to 
acknowledge the distress caused, but didnt think it need do anything more. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome. He said he didnt know until six months after his claim 
that he was considered at fault. He says not knowing this could have affected his insurance 
cover. And that £150 doesnt cover the increased cost of insurance or the stress and anxiety 
caused. Because of this he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My role here is not to determine who was at fault for the accident. But rather to consider 
whether Admiral behaved reasonably in handling the claim. 
Based on Admirals response to Mr Hs complaint it shouldnt have admitted liability when it 
did, which was seven days after the accident. Admiral says its claim handler was at fault 
here and acted prematurely in accepting liability. 
I can see from the correspondence that Mr H was informed about his car being considered a 
total loss. Admiral wrote to him in November 2020 to confirm the payment it would be 
making. A further letter was sent to Mr H in December confirming disposal of the car. 
However, I understand Mr H was not aware liability had been accepted by Admiral until 
approximately six months after the accident. 
I can understand why Mr H was surprised to learn of this decision given the lack of 
communication from Admiral. 
Given that Admiral admits it accepted liability prematurely and Mr Hs view that he wasnt at 
fault, I think it was appropriate that further investigations were arranged. This involved a 
video call interview and Admirals agent visiting the site of the accident to understand the 
road lay-out. 
I have read the detailed information supplied to Admiral following this investigation. From this 
Im satisfied it took reasonable action to investigate the accident and it obtained relevant 
information to be able to make a reasoned decision on liability. 
The terms of Mr Hs policy under the General Conditions section on page 26 say:
We are entitled to.
 conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
 take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on the 
policy for our own benefit
 admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs disappointment that Admiral settled the claim with him as the at fault 
driver. I can understand why he was frustrated given the companys apparent initial lack of 
investigation and lack of communication. But the terms are clear that Admiral can decide to 
settle the claim, which is what it did here. 
I dont think Admiral treated Mr H fairly in how it initially handled his claim. It admits it was 
premature in accepting liability. I think its reasonable to expect the investigation it 
subsequently arranged should have happened much sooner. It also failed to inform Mr H of 
its at fault decision, which caused him anxiety and inconvenience when he eventually found 
out. Its fair that this is acknowledged with a compensation payment. In the circumstances 
described I think the £150 payment already provided is reasonable. 
In considering all of this, I dont think Admiral treated Mr H fairly, initially. But it has since 
taken action to complete a full investigation to inform its decision and paid reasonable 
compensation for the anxiety and inconvenience it caused. So, I cant fairly ask it to do 
anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman