DRN-4240357
The complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) refused to provide him with copy 
bank statements for a period when he was party to a joint bank account with his ex-wife.  
What happened
Mr M says he was going through a divorce settlement with his ex-wife and needed historic 
bank statements to provide to his solicitor. Mr M says he approached RBS to provide historic 
bank statements for the period between May 2021 and March 2022, when he was a joint 
account holder with his ex-wife. Mr M says RBS refused to provide the statements as the 
bank account was now in his ex-wifes name solely. In early March 2023 Mr M says he 
complained to RBS, but it still refused to provide the statements to him.
Mr M says this has caused him a great deal of stress and worry during a difficult time for him 
and he needed the statements to conclude the financial matters relating to his divorce. 
RBS initially informed Mr M it wasnt able to provide the bank statements he was asking for 
and apologised for the fact that should have been explained to him earlier when he 
requested the statements in branch. RBS paid Mr M a total of £75 by way of apology and to 
cover his incidental expenses. 
Mr M wasnt happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and during the course of her 
investigation RBS admitted it had made a mistake and the statements Mr M had requested 
should have been made available to him, which it apologised for and offered a further £150 
by way of compensation. The investigator provided Mr M with the statements he requested 
and felt that as this matter was now resolved and RBS had agreed to pay a further £150 by 
way of apology, that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr M to be refused access 
to bank account statements by RBS, when he was a joint account holder at the time. Given 
during the course of this investigation RBS have accepted it made a mistake in telling Mr M 
he couldnt have copies of joint account bank statements when he was party to it, back in 
2021/2022, I will consider if the redress RBS has now offered Mr M goes far enough. 
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat what has 
already been said before, other than to say RBS refused to provide copy bank account 
statements Mr M requested for the period between May 2021 and March 2022, when he was 
a joint account holder with his ex-wife. 
RBS have now accepted during the course of this investigation that it had made a mistake 
and those statements should have been made available to Mr M. Taking this into account 
RBS have now offered Mr M a further £150 by way of apology in addition to the £75 it has 
already paid. Mr M doesnt feel this is sufficient and RBS have been negligent in this matter. 
The first thing to say here is theres no question RBS have made a mistake here and it 
should have provided the copy statements Mr M was entitled to, when he originally asked for 
them. Its worth saying its not my role to penalise or punish businesses when mistakes are 
made but to ensure the matter is corrected and a proportionate amount of redress is paid  I 
am satisfied RBS has done that here. While Mr M may not agree, theres no evidence here 
to suggest RBS have done anything other than make a genuine mistake. 
While I can see that would have been stressful for Mr M and without trying to minimise the 
frustration this would have undoubtedly caused him here, I am satisfied RBS have accepted 
its shortcomings and offered a reasonable and fair amount of compensation for that. All I 
would say here, is although RBS have apologised to Mr M via this service for the mistake it 
has made, when RBS provides Mr M with the extra compensation payment, it would be 
appropriate if it also apologised to him personally for the trouble this matter has caused him. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr M a further £150 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr M a further £150 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman