DRN-2489483
The complaint
Mrs G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy.
What happened
Mrs G took out a PPI policy during a meeting with NatWest in 1996, at the same time as 
taking out two credit cards.
As Mrs G disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
And, after asking for further information from Mrs G, on 10 November 2020 I issued a 
provisional decision provisionally upholding this complaint.  
As both Mrs G and NatWest agreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to vary it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. I say this because the policy that NatWest has 
told us applies, says that, to be eligible for insurance, amongst other things, the prospective 
insured has to be in employment. Mrs G has told us that, at the time NatWest sold her the 
policy, she wasnt working. She says this was because she had just come out of a difficult 
time separating from her husband. And she had three young children to raise. 
Because of this I dont think that she was eligible for the policy. This means that it would
have been of no use to her. And she was paying for something which gave her no 
benefit.
I dont think she would have bought the policy if she had realised she wasnt eligible. So, 
I think Mrs G has lost out because of what the business did wrong.
Im aware that Mrs G initially said that she couldnt remember her employment status at the
time of the sale. However that was based on the wrong sale date.
Putting things right
NatWest needs to put Mrs G into the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. NatWest should:
Pay Mrs G the amount she paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year*;
If Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, NatWest can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
*If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from this interest it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. NatWest must also give 
Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can reclaim tax from 
HM Customs & Excise if appropriate.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. And I order National 
Westminster Plc to pay Mrs G compensation in accordance with the above calculation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman