DRN-3446189
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed a payment to her account. Shes also 
unhappy with the exchange rate used. 
What happened
On 16 November 2021, HSBC received a payment of AUD 38,655.40 for Ms W. Ms W has 
said that the money didnt reach her account until 17 November, and that the amount was 
£267 less than what a family member who used a different bank had received, even though 
the amount sent was the same. She also explained that her payment was delayed, while her 
family members payment reached them on the same day.  
Ms W said she visited her HSBC branch and they werent able to tell her why there was a 
difference in amounts.  Because of this she raised a complaint. 
HSBC responded and said that their foreign exchange pricing is taken from a Live Interbank 
Market rate, and that they use the mid-rate which is the average between the sell and buy 
rates, plus their own margin. They also explained that the terms and conditions of Ms Ws 
account explained that the exchange rates they use are variable, meaning they change 
throughout each day. 
While it is possible to find different rates elsewhere, HSBC explained that they dont use 
those rates and that they arent able to confirm a rate as they change all the time. Because 
of this they couldnt find any error on their part. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. He explained 
that if the rate used by HSBC was different to the one used by the other bank, it didnt mean 
it was wrong, as different businesses use different exchange rates. He also explained that 
the payment had gone through a day later as it had missed the cut off time of 5pm. As the 
payment had gone through on the following day, the rate had changed. 
Our investigator also provided Ms W with information on what the exchange rate was on the 
day of the transfer, and what it would have been, had the payment been sent on 16 
November. There wasnt a large difference and so he still couldnt find any fault with what 
HSBC had done and explained this to Ms W. 
Ms W disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the view reached by the investigator. I will 
explain why. 
I have checked the terms and conditions of Ms Ws account and can see that under Paying 
money into your account it says that foreign currency payments can be used Right after 
weve converted it into pounds sterling using the HSBC Exchange Rate (or the HSBC Global 
Transfer Exchange Rate) at the time we receive the payment. 
I can see that the payment for Ms W was received by HSBC on 16 November 2021, just 
after 5pm and so was paid the following day. They have explained that when a payment is 
processed in a different currency to the receiving account (in this case AUD being converted 
to GBP) it must be converted in order to be credited. 
In line with the terms and conditions of Ms Ws account, HSBC used the rate that was 
available at the time of the transfer. I understand that the rate used by HSBC may have been 
different to the one used by the other bank, however each bank has their own rates and I 
wouldnt be able to comment or say that HSBC should have used a different one. 
I do understand that £267 is a large difference, given that the two payments were made only 
a day apart, so I can see why Ms W is unhappy. But unfortunately, HSBC have shown that 
they used the rate available at the time, and I cant see anything to suggest the payment was 
delayed at all. 
Because of this, I cant say that HSBC have done anything wrong and so wont be asking 
them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman