DRN-3611274
The complaint
Mrs S says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, has not adequately explained the 
discrepancies between her running balance and transaction history on its mobile banking 
app. She wants the app fixing. 
What happened
Mrs S contacted Virgin Money to ask why her transaction history and running balance did 
not tally on its app. She says the numbers never add up and the bank cant explain why. 
This means she cant keep track of her account properly and worries money is missing. Also, 
Mrs S is unhappy with the service provided on the banks live chat facility. 
The bank explained that it was aware of some occasions where the running balance and 
transaction history might not exactly match. This was at the month end when there is a high 
volume of transactions and they may not be displayed until later in the day or by the close of 
business. It said that as the running balance is shown in real time it may not always reflect 
the transactions that can be seen, but it will by close of business of the start of the next 
business day. 
In addition, some retailers do not process transactions withing the first 24-48 hours which 
may cause a discrepancy as the running balance will be up-to-date but a transaction might 
not be listed. It apologised for any inconvenience this caused, and accepted the service on 
the live chat could have been better. It paid Mrs S £75 compensation for this and confirmed 
feedback had been given to the agent.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. He said Virgin Money had explained the 
two reasons the running balance may not tally with the transactions listed. And whilst this will 
be frustrating for Mrs S, we could not tell Virgin Money to operate its app differently. He felt 
the live chat transcripts he had seen showed Virgin Money tried to help Mrs S understand 
her running balance. He said the screenshots Mrs S sent in dont evidence errors in the app. 
He felt the £75 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the 
screenshots she provided show the maths does not add up.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I find Virgin Money has provided an adequate explanation of why the running balance and 
transaction listings do not, at times, match on its app. I can see why this is frustrating for   
Mrs S, but I think from the banks explanation Mrs S can be reassured it is not an error on 
the app, rather there is at times a time lag. The running balance is real time and so can be 
relied on to show her up-to-date financial position. I know Mrs S wants us to instruct Virgin 
Money to fix the app. It has told Mrs S that its technical team is working to minimise the 
month end impact when there is a high volume of transactions. But that aside, we do not 
have the powers to review, or order any changes to, a banks processes, policies and 
systems. That is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority).  
I have looked at the screen shots Mrs S sent in. But I dont find they show anything that 
contradicts the explanation Virgin Money has provided. I note they are month-end dates and 
will therefore most likely be impacted by the time lag the bank referenced. Mrs S says the 
maths just doesnt add up  but the bank has explained there can be a delay to the 
transactions listing at month end, so this is not unexpected. 
I have read the live chats and think the agents were largely trying to assist Mrs S. It may be 
as she had not yet received the explanation for the discrepancy that the final response letter 
provided that Mrs S did not feel this was the case.  
Overall, I think Virgin Money has responded fairly and reasonable to Mrs Ss complaint and I 
am not instructing it to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman