DRN-2303889
Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way that she was treated by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) when it had concerns about the way she was using her account.  
Background
Mrs B had a bank account with Halifax. Halifax was concerned about the way the account 
was being used. Mrs B had received and sent large payments in quick succession.
It was worried Mrs B was at risk of fraud or that the account was being used for fraudulent 
activity. It blocked Mrs Bs account and said it wouldnt lift the restrictions until Mrs B 
demonstrated that the funds were legitimate and she was entitled to received them. Shortly 
after it did so, the bank that had processed one of the large payments into her account (a 
payment of £12,635.84 on 23 April 2020) sent Halifax a notification that the funds were 
connected to fraud. 
Mrs B visited a branch of Halifax in an attempt to have the restrictions lifted.  Halifax staff 
were concerned that Mrs B was a victim of fraud and so invoked the Banking Protocol  that 
meant that Mrs B was spoken to by police officers.
Mrs B felt that the situation had been misunderstood by Halifax staff. She explained that her 
and her partner were involved in the trading of cryptocurrency. She said shed been trading 
in cryptocurrency for a while. For health reasons, she didnt use a computer herself but shed 
given her partner access to her online banking facilities. She told Halifax that shed give 
purchase instructions to her partner and hed carry them out for her. The payment of 
£12,635.84 was from a man who wanted to buy bitcoin and transferred her money to do so. 
She had no idea that there were concerns about the source of those funds.
As Halifax wasnt satisfied with the explanation Mrs B had given, it kept the account 
restrictions in place but said it would be able to lift them temporarily whenever she needed to 
make withdrawals of cash. She said this caused her difficulties because she wasnt able to 
act on the instruction of the man who had transferred her money to buy bitcoin.
Overall, Halifax was concerned with the way that Mrs B had used the account. It thought she 
hadnt complied with the terms and conditions because shed shared her security details with 
an unauthorised third party (her partner) and it was concerned that funds connected with 
fraud had been passed through the account. It decided there was a risk to the bank if it 
allowed her to continue using her account so in September 2020, it closed it down. 
Mrs B was unhappy with the way Halifax had handled things and so she referred a complaint 
to this service. It was looked into by an Investigator who concluded that Halifax was entitled 
to close the account. However, the implementation of the block on the account had caused 
Mrs B some difficulties with accessing her pension. She recommended Halifax pay Mrs B a 
further £100 in recognition of this inconvenience.
Halifax agreed to pay the additional compensation. Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider and reach a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Halifax has done anything wrong here. 
The closure of the account
There are extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses to monitor their customers 
accounts in the interest of reducing fraud. Where an account has been used in an unusual or 
suspicious manner, that might force that business to establish the underlying reality behind 
that activity  i.e. if a customer receives a large sum of money into their account, the 
business will often need to establish the origin of that sum. Failure to do so could result in 
penalties or other action taken by the regulator.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to have regarded Mrs Bs use of the account as 
unusual and to have wanted to investigate it further. The payments were made into account 
very soon after it had been opened and outgoing payments were authorised soon 
afterwards. In the course of its investigations, Halifax learned that Mrs B didnt use her online 
banking facility. A medical condition prevented her from using a computer. However, shed 
allowed her partner to access it on her behalf.
Unfortunately, Mrs B couldnt give a clear explanation as to the origin of these payments. 
Shes said that it was used to purchase cryptocurrency for a third party, but shes not 
presented any evidence of trading. And even if she had, I think it was reasonable for Halifax 
to be concerned that an unauthorised third party had been given access to Mrs Bs account.
I know Mrs B was unhappy about Halifaxs decision to close her account. Generally, a bank 
has the discretion to choose who they do business with. Halifax was therefore free to close 
her account, so long as it gave her enough time to be able to obtain a bank account 
elsewhere, if necessary. I can see that Halifax gave her 60 days and that she has been able 
to open an account with a different business. Overall, Im not persuaded it did anything 
wrong in opting to close her account.
Other issues
Halifax kept the restrictions on her account during this period. The account was still receiving 
Mrs Bs pension. Whenever she needed to access her money, Halifax staff would 
temporarily lift those restrictions to allow withdrawals to be made and then reimpose them 
shortly afterwards.
From what Mrs B has told us, this caused her significant inconvenience and led to some 
difficulties in accessing her money. For that reason, I think its right that Halifax pays her 
additional compensation for that and, from what Ive seen, an additional £100 is a fair and 
reasonable sum.
Finally, Mrs B has said information recorded by Halifax has prevented her from being able to 
open bank accounts with other businesses. But from the evidence Ive seen, thats unlikely 
to be the case. From what Ive seen, Halifax has only recorded information on its internal 
systems  this would be available to businesses across the banking group but it wouldnt be 
available more widely to other banks that are unconnected with Halifax. 
If Halifax had made a judgement about not being willing to offer an account to Mrs B 
because they thought that to do so entailed some further risk, I dont find it unreasonable for Halifax to have recorded that on its internal systems. 
I recognise the strength of feeling Mrs B has about her case. But while Im sorry to 
disappoint her, Im satisfied that £100 is appropriate compensation for the way Halifax 
handled things.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax now needs to pay £100 to Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman