DRN-1685983
 
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Metro Bank Plc wont write off arrears on her account, which 
were caused by fraudulent activity.
What happened
Miss D is disputing seven transactions totalling £603.89, which were made between 4 and 6 
November 2019. All but two were Pay at Pump transactions. The first transaction was an 
ATM cash withdrawal for £10. The last payment was a contactless payment in a 
supermarket. Miss Ds debit card and PIN were used to make the payments.
Miss D last used her card on 18 October 2019 to make a contactless payment for travel 
fares. She said she had no use for it again and believed it was at home in her bedroom. She 
said she searched for her card on 2 November 2019, but she couldnt find it, so she logged 
on to her online banking. Thats when she saw the disputed transactions.
Miss D called Metro Bank to raise her concerns. She told the bank that she had been at a 
party on 1 November 2019 and she wasnt sure if her card was lost or stolen at the party. 
Since the party, she had been unwell and bed-bound. She said she doesnt drive. And she 
doesnt live in the area where the transactions were made. 
Miss D also confirmed that she didnt keep a written note of her PIN, but she said it was easy 
to guess, being four consecutive numbers.
Metro Bank asked her if she knew about a credit into her account for £25 on 4 November 
2019. She replied that she didnt. Metro Bank said it had concerns about the payer. It said 
this person had made payments to other accounts, which were then followed by suspicious 
activity. However, it said this unusual activity still didnt explain how someone got hold of 
Miss Ds card and PIN.
The disputed transactions left Miss Ds account overdrawn. She expected Metro Bank to 
write off the arrears and restore the account to a nil balance. 
Metro Bank decided to take no further action. It said there was no evidence showing how her 
card and PIN had been compromised. It said she had also been inconsistent, saying at first 
that she had been looking for her card on 2 November and then changing it to 6 November 
2019, after being told that was when she called the bank. 
Metro Bank concluded it was more likely than not that Miss D carried out the transactions 
herself, or allowed someone else to use her account. 
Miss D wasnt happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service. She 
was also unhappy with the service she had received from the bank.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold it. He felt unable to 
conclude that an unknown third party had carried out the transactions because:the transactions were made by chip and PIN. This means her actual card was used 
with her PIN.
The correct PIN was entered first time. There were no unsuccessful attempts. This 
suggests that the person already knew the PIN. 
Miss D said she didnt keep a written note of her PIN and she hadnt shared it with 
anyone else, leaving her as the only person who knew the PIN.
It was unlikely she had been shoulder-surfed, as she hadnt used her card for two 
weeks prior to the first disputed transaction.
And the investigator didnt agree that Metro Bank had behaved in an unprofessional or rude 
manner.
Miss D disagreed with the investigators view. She has asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Miss D and Metro Bank have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure Miss D that Ive read the file, including her comments and 
evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short, Metro Bank is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017).  Miss D says she didnt make the disputed transactions. She wants the bank to clear 
the arrears which were caused by those transactions. So, my primary concern is to come to 
a view about whether or not I think Miss D authorised the transactions. 
Having reviewed Metro Banks transactions report, Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN 
were used in order for the disputed transaction to take place. But the regulations relevant to 
this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Metro Bank to hold Miss D liable. So I 
also need to consider whether the evidence points to someone else making the transactions 
without Miss Ds authority.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro Bank to conclude that Miss D 
authorised the transactions  either by making them herself or by allowing someone else to 
use her card. This is because:
The disputed transactions were made using Miss Ds genuine card and PIN. Whilst it 
was possible for someone to steal her card, theres no convincing explanation for 
how they would know her PIN. 
The PIN was entered correctly at the first attempt. I appreciate the PIN was four 
consecutive numbers but it is still extremely lucky to get it right first time, given the 
different combinations. Im afraid I think its more likely they already knew the PIN.It seems unlikely that an opportunistic fraudster wouldve observed her using her PIN 
on 18 October 2019 or earlier, stolen her card and then waited two weeks before 
using it.
Miss D didnt call the bank until 6 November 2019. However, the audit log for her 
online account showed that she had logged in on 3 November 2019. She ought to 
have been aware, at that stage, that her card was missing.
For these reasons, I think its more likely Miss D authorised the transactions by allowing 
someone else to use her card.
I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Metro Bank to take no further action.
pending transactions
Miss D questioned why Metro Bank allowed transactions to go through after shed reported 
her card missing. The investigator has explained that these transactions were pending at the 
time she called the bank and they didnt clear until later. Im satisfied that this is what 
happened.
service complaint
Ive listened to the calls between Miss D, the fraud advisor and the fraud manager. I agree 
with the investigator that the fraud manager remained calm and professional during the call. 
However, Miss D became upset and angry. She ended the call by threatening to go into the 
head office to make a complaint.
The call with the fraud advisor was very different. I found her tone and line of questioning 
was accusatory and more like an interrogation. I appreciate she had a job to do, but this 
 was enforcement action, not service provision.
Unfortunately, Miss D contributed to the rising tensions and the situation escalated quickly to 
a confrontation for which both sides were to blame. 
For this reason, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to compensate Miss D for poor 
service. However, I agree that the banks service fell below those standards, which a 
customer expects from its bank.
I am sorry this isnt the outcome Miss D was expecting for but I hope the reasons for my 
decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman