DRN-3437275
The complaint
Miss P complains about St Andrews Insurance Plcs handling of a claim made under home 
insurance after a flood at her house.
What happened
Miss P has a home insurance policy with St Andrews (SA) which covers her buildings and 
contents amongst other things.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here.
This complaint relates to SAs handling of a claim after a flood in February 2020 which 
inundated Miss Ps home.
Miss P has made previous claims to SA, following another flood in 2015 and after an incident 
in which a car was driven into her house in 2016. Shes made other complaints to SA  and 
to us  about those claims. I wont be dealing with those complaints in this decision.
The claim in February 2020 was accepted by SA  there was no dispute at all that there had 
been a serious flood in the area. 
Miss P says she hadnt been provided with up-to-date policy documents by SA and the limits 
on her policy had been unfairly changed.
She says some items damaged by the flood havent been repaired  or havent been 
repaired properly  by SA. 
She says there were delays in payments for property that was damaged or lost in the flood. 
And that SAs agents didnt keep accurate lists of the property damaged or lost.
She says there were also delays to the clean-up work in her property and to repairs that 
were to be carried out. And delays in an interim payment (of 20% of the claim). 
She says SA have delayed the claim in general  for example, by transferring it to a different 
department within their organisation. And, more than a year after the flood the claim had still 
not been settled.
She complained to SA about these issues. And when she wasnt satisfied with their 
response, she brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think SA 
had done anything wrong.
Miss P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to be clear at the outset what this particular decision will cover. As I say, Miss P has 
several other complaints with us about SA, relating to the other claims shes made. They will 
be dealt with separately.
Shes also made a separate complaint specifically about the changes to her policy, which 
she says werent notified to her any point. She also says those changes arent valid 
because, in her view, SA are legally obliged to comply with the terms of the original contract 
between them. 
Again, because Miss P has made a separate complaint to us about those issues specifically, 
I wont be addressing them in this decision.
This leaves the issues about the handling of the claim and about the alleged delays in 
settling the claim. Im not going to uphold Miss Ps complaint about these issues. Ill explain 
why.
The claim was transferred to a different handler within SA because of some concerns they 
had about the extent and nature of Miss Ps claimed losses.
Miss P requested that she be present when SAs agents removed the items from the house 
that were either to be repaired or to be deemed beyond economical repair. And this wasnt 
possible for a period of time because she was having medical treatment away from the 
home.
Its fair to say that there were a very large number of items which Miss P said had been 
affected by the flood. The sorting of those items, with Miss P present, took several visits  
and there were multiple van loads of items taken away.
This partly explains why the claim took so long to deal with, but Ill return to that issue later. 
First, I want to set out the concerns SA had  and still have  about the claim.
SA have told Miss P that some of the items taken away by their agents after the flood appear 
to be undamaged. They have a witness statement provided by their agent which suggests 
Miss P insisted those items were taken away and dealt with as part of the claim.
Theyve also told her that some items appear to have suffered damage before the flood. 
They say the kind of damage just isnt what could reasonably be expected to have occurred 
during a flood.
They say that some items appear on the list of damaged items to be taken to storage but 
arent actually in storage at all. And they say many of the items for which Miss P is making a 
claim appear to have been reported as beyond economical repair when Miss P made her 
previous claim after the flood in 2015.
The 2020 claim is for well in excess of £100,000 for damaged or lost contents. The claim in 
2015 was for around £500,000 for contents. 
SA asked Miss P about their concerns (as outlined above). I cant see thats shes offered 
any explanation about the undamaged or previously damaged items. She hasnt commented 
on the missing items. And she hasnt provided any receipts, invoices or other evidence to 
demonstrate that, after the 2015 flood, she replaced many lost items with exact and identical 
replacements.I have to say, I dont think SA can reasonably hold Miss P responsible for the missing items. 
If those were included in the lists compiled by their agents when they cleared out Miss Ps 
property, then that was either their error or the items have gone missing since being taken to 
storage.
However, its neither unfair nor unreasonable for SA to ask Miss P to provide further 
information about the undamaged or previously damaged items  or about the items which 
appear at first sight to have been claimed twice  before they settle her claim.
Ill turn now to the alleged delays in the repairs to be carried out as Miss Ps property.
As Ive already said, Miss P asked to be present when the damaged items were cleared from 
her property. Visits appear to have been scheduled reasonably soon after Miss P was 
available. And they inevitably took some time given the large volume of items affected (or 
allegedly affected) by the flood.
After the items were cleared, the property had to be dried (it couldnt reasonably be done 
with the items still in the property), which inevitably took some time. I note Miss P also asked 
for a delay in the commencement of the drying out so that she could remove books from that 
part of the property.
Once the drying out was complete, SA had contractors visit within a reasonable amount of 
time to sanitise the lower floor of Miss Ps property  a job which involved removing and then 
putting back units within her kitchen. 
They also had electricians visit  at first to restore power after the flood with a temporary 
solution and then to do more substantive work when the drying out was complete.
These works appear to have been slightly complicated by the fact that repairs required after 
the previous flood in 2015  for which Miss P received a cash settlement  had not in fact 
been carried out.
In short, looking at the records SA have provided, I can see minor delays in the timetable for 
the cleaning up and repairs at Miss Ps property  for example, there appears to have been 
one abortive attempt to sanitise the kitchen when one of the contractors didnt turn up. But 
there is no significant or serious delay caused by any failings on SAs part.
Miss P also says some property has been returned to her without proper repairs being 
carried out. Thats unsurprising given that she appears to have specifically asked that certain 
items were returned to her  rather than being disposed of  even if they couldnt be fully 
repaired.
In summary, I dont think SAs handling of this claim has been in any way unfair or 
unreasonable. If Miss P can provide the information SA have quite legitimately asked her for, 
Im sure they will get on with their consideration of the claim. But unless or until that 
happens, I cant reasonably conclude theyve done anything wrong in the way theyve 
handed the claim.
I should be clear that this decision covers anything SA did before the date of their final 
response to Miss Ps complaint. If theres anything after that date (19 February 2021) that 
Miss P is concerned about, shed be entitled to make another complaint to SA  and then to 
us if shes not satisfied with their response. Broadly, our service can only look into matters that have already been raised with the 
business concerned and that they have had an opportunity to resolve (unless that business 
consents to us going ahead with our investigations before that point).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman