DRN-4155302
The complaint
Mr K complains Scottish Widows Limited didnt freeze his pension as he asked it to.
What happened
In 2013 Mr K joined a group personal pension with Scottish Widows, and his pension was 
invested in unit-linked funds. In 2022, Mr K saw from his latest annual statement that his 
pensions value had fallen. So on 18 May 2022, Mr K called Scottish Widows to ask it to 
freeze, or immediately disinvest, his pension while he arranged for it to be transferred to 
another provider. During several conversations with Mr K that day, Scottish Widows 
explained it couldnt freeze his pension, but he could start the process of either switching his 
investments to lower risk funds or transferring his pension to another provider. And it logged 
a complaint for Mr K, as he was unhappy it wouldnt freeze what he saw to be his money. 
On 20 May 2022, Mr K asked Scottish Widows to switch his pension investments to a lower 
risk fund, and this was completed on 25 May 2022. 
Soon after, Scottish Widows responded to Mr Ks complaint. It said it correctly told him it 
couldnt simply freeze his investments and had explained his options. His pension had been 
invested in unit-linked funds whose value changed daily depending on how the underlying 
assets performed, so growth wasnt guaranteed. And it hadnt mismanaged his pension.
 
Mr K continued contacting Scottish Widows as he thought it hadnt properly explained what 
happened to the value of his pension and why it couldnt freeze his pension, and he thought 
this was at odds with its empowering customers mission statement. And during this time, 
Mr K asked to transfer his pension to another provider. Scottish Widows received this 
transfer request on 17 June 2022 and completed it on 20 June 2022. 
Mr K also brought his complaint to our Service. He said Scottish Widows hadnt addressed 
his complaint to his satisfaction, as it hadnt provided him with documents that said a freeze 
wasnt possible and hadnt called him back and responded as hed asked it to. And that it 
hadnt given him a final settlement figure and checked he was happy to proceed before it 
transferred his pension. 
In further communication with Mr K, Scottish Widows explained that unforeseeable global 
events had caused his pension value to fall. That his pension terms and conditions made 
clear it would be invested into units of funds whose value could go up and down. And it 
transferred his pension using its value on the day it received his transfer request. Scottish 
Widows said it had sent Mr K a copy of his pension terms and conditions, as well as the call 
recordings it could find, and it offered Mr K £250 compensation for its delay in providing the 
call recordings. But it told Mr K it wouldnt communicate with him any further on this matter, 
as his complaint was now with our Service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, as he thought Scottish Widows had 
administered Mr Ks pension in line with the pension terms and conditions. 
M K said he didnt know what our Investigator based their conclusions on, as hed not been 
sent a copy of our case file. And Scottish Widows hadnt given him all the answers and 
information hed repeatedly asked it for. Mr K said Scottish Widows told him there was a 
cash pot his pension could be put into, but he was later told his wasnt an option. And after 
our Service shared call recordings with Mr K, he thought there were other relevant calls we 
needed to listen to.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me. On 11 May 2023, I issued my 
provisional decision. It explained why I was satisfied that Scottish Widows had treated Mr K 
fairly, but also said Scottish Widows should pay Mr K the £250 compensation it had itself 
offered him, if it hadnt paid this already.
Scottish Widows said it had paid the £250 compensation to Mr K and had nothing more to 
add.
Mr K provided further comments for me to consider. He reiterated Scottish Widows hadnt 
provided all of its calls to either him or our Service, and these held vital evidence, in 
particular that its managers didnt call him back as promised. That it hadnt provided any 
terms or conditions that said he couldnt freeze his pension. And while Scottish Widows 
accepted it was Mr Ks money, it wouldnt freeze his pension as hed asked so its mission 
statement was misleading and hadnt been explained to him. Mr K thought our Service 
hadnt investigated his complaint properly.  
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im now in a position to make my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ks repeated concern that Scottish Widows hasnt provided our Service 
with all the evidence he thinks is relevant to his complaint. And I acknowledge Mr K thinks 
our Service hasnt investigated his complaint properly. However, Mr K has brought his 
complaint to our Service for an impartial investigation and so, ultimately, its for me to 
determine whats relevant here. The evidence provided to me includes Mr Ks testimony, 
copies of written and telephone communication between Mr K and Scottish Widows, a copy 
of Mr Ks pension terms and conditions, and copies of his annual pension statements. And 
having reconsidered all the evidence Ive been provided with, I remain satisfied I dont need 
any further evidence in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K complains that his pension value fell. Section 2 of Mr Ks pension terms and conditions 
makes clear that the price of each unit is directly related to the value of the assets of the 
fund, and prices can go down as well as up. And I think the annual statements Scottish 
Widows sent to Mr K each year also made reasonably clear that the value of his pension 
was not guaranteed to increase. Mr K did make contributions to his pension, but 
nonetheless, from the annual statements I note that the value of Mr Ks pension increased 
consistently from £4,526.95 in 2014 to £58,892.44 in 2021, before falling by £2,402.94 in 
2022. And I note Scottish Widows explained that the effect of unforeseeable global events 
on Mr Ks investments caused this fall. Further, when Scottish Widows processed Mr Ks 
pension transfer, it took the value of his pension from the date it received the transfer 
request and completed the transfer within a reasonable time. Its not the case that Mr K 
wouldve been able to pick and choose the value he was happy to proceed at, as he 
suggests. Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded that any fall in the value of Mr Ks 
pension was caused by mismanagement on the part of Scottish Widows. Mr K is also unhappy that Scottish Widows wouldnt freeze, or immediately disinvest, his 
pension while he arranged for it to be transferred to another provider, so his pension value 
fell further. He says this is at odds with Scottish Widows overall mission statement, and this 
has never been explained to him. And that Scottish Widows should be able to provide 
documentation that says he cant freeze his pension. I note Scottish Widows email to Mr K 
on 10 October 2022 explained that The statement empowering our customers to make the 
most of their financial future relates to the range of products we offer and the services that 
are available which allow customers to plan for their future. It does not mean that we are 
able to facilitate every customers request if they are not in scope with the services we offer 
or the available product options. 
In any case, whats relevant here are the specific terms and conditions of the pension 
contract Mr K entered into with Scottish Widows. Broadly speaking, their purpose is to 
outline how Mr Ks pension will work and the options open to Mr K in relation to that. So its 
not reasonable to expect the terms and conditions to exhaustively set out all the things Mr K 
couldnt do with his pension investments. 
Ive considered what the terms and conditions say. I can see that Section 1 explains Mr K 
wont own any of the units or investments in a fund but might find it helpful to think of 
yourself as buying units when you pay a contribution and we allocate units to the policy, 
and selling them when they are cancelled in exchange for benefits or for units in another 
fund. And as I say, Section 2 makes clear that the price of each unit is directly related to the 
value of the assets of the fund, and prices can go down as well as up. 
Mr Ks pension terms and conditions go on to set out what Mr K can do with his pension 
investments. Section 7 says Mr K can switch from one fund to another by selling units in the 
old fund and buying units in the new fund. Section 8 says he can cash in his units by 
taking his retirement benefits on his selected retirement date, or at other times subject to the 
rules of his pension scheme. And Section 10 says Mr K can transfer the value of his pension 
to another provider, but cannot receive the value as a cash sum in your own hands  it must 
go to another pension scheme.
When Mr K called Scottish Widows in May 2022, it was clear he didnt want to retire and take 
his retirement benefits. Instead he wanted to immediately freeze his investments while he 
arranged a pension transfer. But the terms and conditions dont entitle Mr K to such a freeze 
and Ive seen nothing to make me think Scottish Widows led him to believe he was. Instead, 
it clearly told him it wouldnt freeze his investments but that he could start the process of 
either switching funds or transferring his pension. So, Im satisfied Scottish Widows acted 
fairly here. I know Mr K says Scottish Widows told him there was a cash pot his pension 
could be put into. But I think Mr K is referring to the cash fund Scottish Widows told him 
about, and it correctly explained he could switch his investments to a lower risk cash fund 
but that this was another unit-linked investment and wasnt free from risk. 
While not the crux of his complaint, Mr K is also unhappy Scottish Widows didnt provide him 
with all the call backs, answers and information he asked it for. And he says Scottish 
Widows hasnt provided the call recordings that are evidence of this. But even if I was to 
simply accept what Mr K says here, I wouldnt ask Scottish Widows to do anything further. 
Because while Mr K clearly remained unhappy with Scottish Widows response to his 
complaint, he was nonetheless still able to bring that complaint to our Service for an impartial 
investigation. And Scottish Widows has itself offered Mr K £250 as compensation for its 
delay in providing call recordings. So Scottish Widows should pay this £250 compensation to 
Mr K, and says it has already done so. But Im not asking it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Scottish Widows Limited should pay the £250 compensation 
it has itself already offered to Mr K and which it says it has paid him, if it hasnt in fact paid 
this already. But I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman