DRN-3847118
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Unum Ltd turned down an income protection claim she made on her 
employers group insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S was a member of her employers group income protection policy. She was insured on 
an own occupation basis. The policy deferred period was set at 26 weeks.
In January 2020, Mrs S GP had issued a fit note stating that Mrs S was fit to work reduced
hours. Mrs S had a diagnosis of fibromyalgia and suffered from shoulder and foot pain,
amongst other things. She was referred to occupational health and underwent regular
reviews with an occupational health adviser. The adviser also concluded that Mrs S was fit to
work reduced hours. They recommended that her employer should provide specialist
equipment to enable Mrs S to carry out her role. However, on 12 November 2020, the
occupational health adviser concluded that Mrs S was no longer fit to work, and she was
then signed off by her GP. In November 2020, Mrs S employer made an income protection
claim on her behalf. Mrs S returned to work on a phased basis in April 2021, but ultimately,
her employment ended on 1 October 2021.
Unum assessed Mrs S claim. It referred to a policy term which required claims to be made
within a specified time limit  in particular, that a claim had to be notified within 90 days of
the end of the deferred period. In this case, Unum considered that Mrs S deferred period
had ended on 20 July 2020. But the claim form hadnt been completed until 22 November
2020  which was more than 90 days later. Unums clinical team considered the available
medical evidence to decide whether Mrs S had met the policy definition of incapacity during
the deferred period. But it felt that much of the evidence was based on self-reporting and
that given the delay in the claim being notified, it wasnt able to approach the treating
practitioners to clarify whether Mrs S had been incapacitated during the deferred period. So
it concluded that its position had been prejudiced by the late notification and it turned down
the claim.
Mrs S was unhappy with Unums decision and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He thought that the way
Unum had defined the term incapacity was unclear. Thats because it required a member
not to be performing any occupation at all. As Mrs S had been working reduced hours up
until November 2020, the investigator didnt think it was fair for Unum to treat her deferred
period as having begun on 20 January 2020, when Mrs S was fit to work only reduced hours.
He felt the deferred period should be treated as having begun in November 2020, when Mrs
S was signed-off from work and that Unum should reassess the claim on that basis.
Unum didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the intention of the incapacity
requirement was to ensure that a member wasnt claiming sick pay for their insured role,
whilst working in another job elsewhere. And it said that if it applied the investigators
interpretation of the incapacity clause, then members who werent fit to work full-time hours
wouldnt be able to make claims for proportionate benefits.
But in an attempt to resolve the complaint, Unum agreed to treat 18 November 2020 as the
start of Mrs S deferred period, which it said meant that the deferred period wouldve ended
on 18 May 2021. So it agreed to pay Mrs S employer income protection benefit for the
period 19 May 2021 up until the date her employment ended, so that her employer could
make any necessary national insurance and income tax deductions.
Mrs S didnt accept Unums offer. She felt that Unum ought to treat her deferred period as
having begun in January 2020 when she first began to work reduced hours. But she said
that as her employer had pro-rated her 26-week sick pay entitlement in line with her working
hours, her sick pay had only ended in December 2020. So she considered that Unum ought
to pay income protection benefit between January and October 2021.
I issued a provisional decision which explained the reasons why I thought Unums offer was 
fair. I said:
First, Id like to reassure both parties that whilst Ive summarised the background to this
complaint and the detailed submissions that have been provided to me, Ive carefully
considered all thats been said and sent. Within this decision though, I havent commented
on each point thats been made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on
what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mrs S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Unum has treated
her fairly.
Ive turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mrs S
employers contract with Unum.
The deferred period
The policy states that Unum will pay income protection benefit if a member is unable to work
due to incapacity. In order for benefit to be paid, a member needs to show that that theyve
been incapacitated for the entire deferred period, which in this case, is six months.
Unum has defined what it means by incapacity. The policy says for own occupation cover:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
- Unable by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial
duties of the insured occupation; and are
- Not performing any occupation.
Our investigator felt that it had been unfair for Unum to treat Mrs S deferred period as
beginning on 20 January 2020, as at that time, she had still been working in her own
occupation, albeit on reduced hours. So he thought this term was ambiguous and that the
deferred period should begin from the point at which Mrs S was entirely signed-off, which he
concluded was 18 November 2020. He felt this was a more favourable interpretation of the
policy terms.
I dont agree with our investigators view on this point. I note that page 33 of the policy
clearly states:The deferred period can be.
Periods where because of illness or injury a member works part-time or on restricted duties
or in a lower paid role.
In my view, its clear then that periods where a member is working reduced hours as a result
of their illness or injury can form part of their deferred period. And indeed, I think it would be
less favourable to conclude that a part-time worker who had reduced their usual hours due
to their illness or injury wouldnt be entitled to begin their deferred period until theyd been
totally signed-off. I find Unums point here more persuasive  that the intention of the second
incapacity requirement is to ensure that a member isnt working elsewhere during their
period of absence.
Mrs S employer reported that Mrs S period of absence began on 20 January 2020. This
date ties-in with the GPs fit note which stated that Mrs S was fit to work reduced hours. I
understand that her fulltime pattern changed quite markedly and continued to be significantly
reduced over a number of months. That being the case, I think it was fair for Unum to
conclude that Mrs S was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her insured
occupation from that date and that therefore, her deferred period began on 20 January 2020.
I note too that Mrs S doesnt appear to dispute this either.
As such then, in order for benefit to be payable, Unum needed to be satisfied that Mrs S was
incapacitated for the full 26-week deferred period (up until 20 July 2020) and after that date. I
appreciate Mrs S believes that as her employer decided to pro-rata her sick pay up until
December 2020, meaning it was broadly spread over 11 months rather than six, her deferred
period should be accordingly extended.
However, I dont think theres any term in her employers contract with Unum which requires
it to extend the six-month deferred period in the event that the employer chooses to extend
sick-pay provision. Mrs S employers insurance contract with Unum and Mrs S sick-pay
entitlements under her employment contract with her employer are two separate and distinct
issues. This means I dont think I could fairly find that Unum must extend the deferred period
until the end of December 2020 because of the way Mrs S employer chose to structure her
sick-pay entitlement. And so Im persuaded that it was fair for Unum to treat the deferred
period as having ended on 20 July 2020.
Did Mrs S make her claim too late and was Unum prejudiced by any late reporting?
Page four of the policy user guide lists a set of risk factors which members should be aware
of. One of these states:
If you do not notify us of a claim within the specified time limits, benefit payments may be
delayed or deferred. We can refuse liability if you do not notify us of a claim within 90 days of
the end of the deferred period.
Page 30 of the policy sets out details about Making a Claim. This section includes the
following terms:
Late notification
If we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period, our ability to manage the
absence and assess the claim may be affected.
You must provide us with a completed employer claim form and a completed employee
claim form before a member has been incapacitated for:10 weeks for deferred periods of 26 weeks or more.
If we are notified of a claim after the end of the deferred period (but less than 90 days later),
we have the right to pay benefit from the date we receive the notice.
If we are notified of a claim later we have the right not to pay benefit.
In this case, Mrs S deferred period began on 20 January 2020 and so a claim ought to have
been made within 10 weeks  which I calculate to be 30 March 2020. The deferred period
ended on 20 July 2020. Ive calculated that the 90-day period after the deferred period
ended on 18 October 2020. But Mrs S and her employer didnt complete the claim form until
22 November 2020  over a month later and substantially more than 90 days after the
deferred period ended. This means that under the contract terms, Unum was entitled to
decline to pay benefit.
It isnt unusual for income protection insurers to include time provisions in their policies. And
these clauses are designed to ensure that insurers are able to access relevant medical
information they need to assess whether a claim is payable in a timely way. In this case,
despite the fact that the claim was submitted more than 90-days after the end of the deferred
period, Unum decided to assess the medical evidence it did have to decide whether there
was enough to show Mrs S had been incapacitated. I think this was a fair and appropriate
response from Unum.
Ive also looked carefully at the available medical evidence. Mrs S notes show that her GP
issued Mrs S with a fit note in January 2020 which stated that she was fit to work reduced
hours. This note was valid for five weeks. No further fit notes appear to have been issued by
the GP between January 2020 and November 2020, when Mrs S was signed-off. I can see
that Mrs S was seen by a consultant rheumatologist throughout the relevant period and was
treated for fibromyalgia, but theres no indication in the specialists evidence that Mrs S
illness meant that she was prevented from working full-time hours.
It's clear that the occupational health adviser did consider that Mrs S wasnt fit to work full
time hours during the deferred period, and afterwards and Ive carefully borne this in mind.
Unum considers though that these reports are based on Mrs S self-reported symptoms to 
the adviser. And due to Covid-19, many of those appointments took place over the phone,
which meant that the adviser couldnt fully assess Mrs S presenting condition. So it doesnt
think theres enough objective medical evidence available to show that Mrs S was prevented
from working during the deferred period. Based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think this
was an unreasonable position for Unum to take.
And given the late notification of the claim, Unum concluded that it had been prejudiced
because it wasnt able to obtain enough medical evidence to clarify whether Mrs S had been
incapacitated during the deferred period. Its generally a policyholder/members responsibility
to provide enough evidence to show they have a valid claim on their policy, although in
practice, insurers may often obtain the evidence they need on a members behalf. But in this
case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude either that the evidence it did
have didnt clearly show that Mrs S had been incapacitated or that given the time that had
passed, it wouldnt be in a position to gather such evidence. On that basis, I dont think it
acted unreasonably by relying on the late notification clause to turn down this claim.
For completeness, Id add that while Mrs S GP did later write to Mrs S employer and
suggest it offer her a new role with reduced hours, the treating consultant didnt appear to
indicate that he felt Mrs S was unfit for work. I say that because in his letter of 25 January
2021, the consultant said: For patients with fibromyalgia, we always encourage them toremain in employment, even if that is for reduced hours. He made no specific finding that
Mrs S was incapacitated from working, or that she was medically required to work part-time
hours. So even taking the later medical evidence into account, which appears to have been
sent to Unum after its initial decline of the claim, I still dont think it acted unfairly in deciding
that Mrs S hadnt shown shed been incapacitated for the full deferred period.
Unums offer
Based on the investigators assessment, Unum agreed to make an offer of settlement to Mrs
S. It agreed to effectively treat Mrs S deferred period as having ended in May 2021 and it
agreed to pay benefit from that date up until the date Mrs S employment ended. Thats
because after that date, Mrs S was no longer entitled to cover under the group protection
scheme.
In my view, this offer is a fair one. Strictly, Unum has no liability to pay benefit for Mrs S
under the terms of the insurance contract. Thats because I think it was entitled to conclude
her deferred period ended on 20 July 2020 and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to
conclude that she hadnt shown she was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. So I
think its offer is made outside of the policy terms and is therefore reasonable in all of the
circumstances. As Unums contract was with Mrs S employer, I think its entitled to pay the
applicable benefit to Mrs S previous employer so that it may calculate any necessary
deductions. Overall, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct
Unum to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Unum didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs S accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further representations or evidence, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think Unum has made a fair and reasonable offer of settlement.
I direct Unum Ltd to pay benefit for Mrs S claim from 19 May 2021 until 1 October 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman