DRN-3746089
The complaint
Mr L complains Saga Services Limited (Saga) gave an unsatisfactory service when he tried 
to update the details of his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a motor insurance policy through Saga. When checking the welcome email 
that he received, he noticed an error in the details of his new policy and needed to make an 
amendment.
Mr L tried to contact Saga by phone on 24 May 2022 to amend the error. When the phone 
was answered a recorded message said the wait time would be up to 15 minutes and that 
policy amendments could be completed on-line. Mr L disconnected the call and tried to 
amend the details himself on-line. In trying to do this he got an error message to contact 
Saga by phone. He then tried Sagas web chat facility, also without success.
Mr L rang Saga again the following day and was put on hold. After ten minutes his call was 
disconnected before he managed to speak to an advisor.
As he was not happy with the service given to him he made a complaint to Saga.
Saga said it has been unable to locate any calls made by Mr L when he was disconnected. It 
accepted it was experiencing higher call volumes than anticipated and that calls were placed 
into a queue until the next advisor became available. 
Saga said that Mr L would not have been able to change the details he needed to on-line 
himself and this would have needed to have been done by one of its advisors. However it 
said it was aware there was an error affecting all amendments on-line and so apologised for 
this.
Saga confirmed its webchat facility was only available between certain hours and Mr L had 
tried to access this outside of these hours.
Saga offered Mr L £45 compensation because it accepted it was experiencing a higher call 
volume than anticipated when he tried to call to make the amendment to his details and also 
because there was an error on its system affecting on-line amendments.
As Mr L was not happy that Saga had not upheld all of his complaint, and in particular his 
complaint about his phone call being disconnected by Saga, he brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and thought the
compensation offer Saga made was fair and had been reached both in line with the terms of 
the policy and the approach of this service.
As Mr L is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phone calls 
I saw that Mr L said he made two phone calls to Saga in which he did not get to speak to a 
Saga advisor.
Mr L said the call he made on 24 May 2022 was disconnected by himself, as the recorded 
message said there was an estimated 15-minute waiting time.
Mr L said the call on 25 May 2022 was disconnected by Saga after he had been waiting for 
approximately ten minutes.
Saga said it was unable to trace either of these calls.
Mr L said just because Saga cannot evidence calls from his number, that this did not mean 
they didnt take place. He said that this was an implied slur on his character.  He said there 
was an inference that he was being dishonest in this part of his complaint.
I am sorry that Mr L has felt like this, but Saga has only said it could not trace the calls he 
mentions. Saga has not made any accusations of dishonesty. It concluded only that it had no 
evidence to support Mr Ls claim that the calls were made.
Mr L said because the calls were made from his landline which is a withheld number this 
may be why Saga could not trace his calls. 
During my investigations into Mr Ls complaint he  provided a recording of the call from
25 May 2022. Saga was provided with the recording and again tried to find a record of the 
call but without success. It said it was unable to confirm whether the call was disconnected 
due to a problem with Mr L's phone line or Saga's phone line. It said it the recording did not 
prove that Saga disconnected the call. 
I listened to the call recording and it confirms a call was made by Mr L and that he was on a 
call that was disconnected after approximately ten minutes. However I do not think it proves 
either way how it was disconnected. 
If there was evidence that proved beyond doubt that Saga had been responsible for the 
disconnected call this would not have changed my decision. I think the offer of £20 
compensation for the poor level of service received and loss of his time of approximately 11 
minutes between the two calls is a reasonable amount.  
I appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr L to have a call disconnect after waiting to 
speak to someone for this amount of time. However I think that the apology made to Mr L 
and the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
On-line service
Saga accepted there was an issue with its on-line service and agree that Mr L will have seen 
an error message when he tried to access his account.It said that although the detail Mr L wanted to amend is not possible on-line, as he did 
experience the known error it was experiencing, it upheld this part of his complaint and 
offered him £25 in compensation.
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Webchat
Mr L was unable to access the webchat facility Saga offer because it only offers this service 
until 5.00pm. It was just past this time when Mr L tried to access it. 
Mr L thinks the availability of this service should be reconsidered. 
It is Sagas business decision on the times it offers services and we cannot tell it how to run 
its business. Therefore this is not something that I can consider as part of this complaint. I 
can see Saga has said it has taken Mr Ls feedback onboard and passed this on to the 
relevant department. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. I think Sagas offer of a total of £45 in 
compensation was fair in this case, so I do not require Saga to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman