DRN-2743099
The complaint
Mr B complains that Anglian Windows Ltd, trading as Anglian Financial Services, (Anglian) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in May 2005. The policy was 
taken out during a meeting when Mr B applied for a loan for windows. It provided him with 
life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mr B. He said Mr B wouldnt have received a proportionate refund 
of the premium if he cancelled the loan early and that he might have needed this flexibility. 
Anglian didnt agree. It responded in detail to say, in summary, that: 
- Theres no evidence to support the view that Mr B might not have fully understood the 
insurance he was buying as he signed a personal illustration form completed with him at 
the time and also signed to say he wanted the PPI.  
- Mr B has confirmed the PPI was recommended to him, which means the elements of the 
PPI were explained to him at the time, so he has no grounds for complaint. And it says 
all the relevant detail about cancellations, cost and how long the PPI cover lasted were in 
the paperwork given to or sent to him when he bought the PPI. 
- That the policy says Mr B would receive a proportionate refund if he repaid the loan and 
PPI early. And theres no evidence to support the adjudicators view that Mr B was likely 
to have wanted to repay his loan early, although Anglian doesnt know if he did that or 
not.
- Mr B received a substantial discount only available to customers who took a loan to buy 
the product and PPI to protect their repayments. Anglian says the discount largely 
outweighed the cost of the PPI, and he had the additional comfort of knowing his 
payments would be covered if he couldnt work. It doesnt think Mr B suffered financially.
- Finally, Anglian says it doesnt have much paperwork to evidence what it says because 
the sale took place so long ago.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
This decision is only about the loan sold to Mr B in 2005, although Im aware he had a 
second loan a while later.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he was rushed into completing the paperwork by a salesperson who simply 
wouldnt leave his home until it was done, despite having been told Mr B had limited time for 
the appointment. That may have been the case, but I dont need to make a finding on 
whether this affected the sale, because I have other reasons for upholding this complaint.
Anglian says that because Mr B acknowledges the PPI was recommended to him, then he 
must have understood what he was buying  because it would have been explained at the 
time. Im not persuaded by that argument. When a business recommends an insurance it 
places the onus on the business to check that the insurance is suitable for the customer, 
having taken into account his particular circumstances. I accept that Anglian collected 
information from Mr B about his other insurance (if there was any), and recommended the 
PPI, but that doesnt in itself mean the product was right for him.
I dont think it was. Setting aside the issue of proportionate refunds, there are two reasons 
why this policy wasnt suitable for Mr B. These are:
1. The cost. Mr B may have received a discount of £1,100 on his windows, but to get that 
he had to buy a policy costing just over £651. And because this cost was added to his 
loan, hed pay about £816 interest on this if his loan ran for a full ten years. So he was in 
fact about £367 worse off. I understand Anglians point about him having the comfort of 
knowing he had the cover in place if he couldnt work for some reason. 
2. The term mis-match. There was a mismatch between the term of the loan and the term 
of the policy. The loan was to be repaid over a period of ten years. The PPI was taken 
out for five years. This meant Mr B would have carried on paying for the policy for up to 
five years after the cover ended. If hed taken out another policy after five years, hed 
have been paying for two policies at the same time  while only being covered by one of 
them. And his circumstances might have changed in the interim, making a second policy 
more expensive.
I think its likely Mr B would have made a different decision if hed realised the true cost of 
the insurance and how long he was covered for.
I accept that the policy terms and conditions refer to a proportionate refund  but theres no 
clear explanation of how such a refund would be calculated nor any examples of how this 
might work. So it would have been impossible for Mr B to work out whether the PPI was 
good value overall. By the time this policy was sold, insurers were required by the 
Association of British Insurers (1999) and the Insurance Conduct of Business rules (January 
2005) to provide this information.
Taking everything into account I find the PPI was mis-sold.  
Putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been, and 
he paid more than he should have each month. So Mr B needs to get back the extra hes 
paid. So, Anglian should: 
1. Work out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would have paid each month without PPI. 
2. Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year . 
3. If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Anglian can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. HM Revenue & Customs requires Anglian to take off tax from this interest. Anglian must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require Anglian Windows Ltd trading as 
Anglian Financial Services to compensate Mr B as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman