DRN-3324296
The complaint
Mr B says AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) irresponsibly lent to him. He says that he had a 
large number of other credit commitments at the time and so he couldnt afford the 
repayments to the Avant loan as well. 
What happened
This complaint is about one high cost loan Avant provided to Mr B on 25 April 2019. Mr B 
borrowed £5,000 and he was due to make 36 repayments of £240.29. The total he would 
repay was £8,650.30. 
Avant has said that Mr B was unable to make the repayments to the loan and it has now 
been passed to a third-party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought Avant shouldnt have been given the 
loan. This was because Mr B had taken out a large amount of other short term and high cost 
loans in the months running up to the sale of the Avant loan. She thought it was clear that Mr 
B would struggle to repay all of this lending sustainably. 
Avant disagreed, it said that Mr B took this loan to consolidate some other debt and this 
would allow him to move away from high cost and short-term credit. If he did this then he 
could possibly reduce his monthly credit payments from £1,686 to £624. And adding this to 
his declared expenditure of £1,399 means he would have enough left over from his monthly 
income of £2,162. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Avant, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
Did Avant act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B and 
that as a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Avant has provided evidence that it says show that before lending this loan it made 
proportionate checks. And based on those checks Avant thought it was fair to lend. Ive 
looked to see if this is reasonable. 
In its response to the opinion Avant didnt dispute that Mr B had taken a large amount of 
other short term and high cost credit in the months running up to this loan. Mr B had taken at 
least six loans very recently, and he had opened 17 credit accounts in the previous six 
months. But Avant says that this new loan was to help Mr B repay this lending and reduce 
his reliance on more expensive forms of credit.  
Ive looked to see if what Avant says is reasonable. Ive not seen any detailed reference to 
debt consolidation from the point of sale. And so, it doesnt seem certain that this was 
discussed in any detail, or that Mr B planned to use the loan in this way.  
And, as has been established, Mr B was borrowing and repaying significant amounts to 
other creditors including short term lenders before he took this loan. And even if I accept 
what the busines says above about debt consolidation this loan wouldnt entirely remove Mr 
Bs need to repay these loans. Whichever way any consolidation was done, he would still be left with a significant amount of high cost credit to repay on top of the Avant loan. And given 
that he had a large longer-term loan already this would be for the foreseeable future. 
And the amount of spare money Mr B had left over was very low over this longer term. And 
he was either needing to spend more than he had, or having problems managing his 
finances in some other way.  
So, I dont think its reasonable to say that the information Avant had makes it fair to assume 
Mr B would be able to repay enough of his existing debts for this loan to have made a 
difference. It looks like his financial situation would have remained precarious after this loan. 
So, I dont think that Avant could say with any degree of confidence that taking a new loan 
would allow Mr B to make the loan repayments sustainably. And I dont think it was 
responsible to lend. 
And this was borne out going forward. Mr B has provided a current credit report This shows 
that he continued to use other short term and high cost credit providers. So, its clear that the 
Avant loan didnt improve his circumstances enough to make a lasting difference. 
Ive also thought about whether Avant acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Avant needs to put things right for the sale of this loan. 
Putting things right
Avant needs to do the following. 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Mr B as payments towards the capital amount of 
£5,000,
If Mr B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr B with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Avant should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to take off tax from this interest. Avant must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC should 
put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman