DRN-3487495
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont offer him the benefit of
free travel insurance on his current account.
What happened
Mr R had a current account which had travel insurance included as a benefit. In 2014, he
closed the account and he no longer had that benefit.
In 2016, Nationwide removed that facility on this particular type of current account. In August
2017, Mr R opened a new current account with Nationwide because hed read that it had the
benefit of travel insurance included. However, Nationwide said, the travel insurance wouldnt
be included on Mr Rs account as this benefit wasnt offered on accounts opened after 2016.
Mr R wasnt happy as he said he knew people who did have the benefit.
Mr R was unhappy and said this was unfair. He said he was being indirectly discriminated
against because of his age as the benefit was provided to older accounts. He required
equality as a long-standing member. He complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide said the travel insurance facility was withdrawn on 15 December 2016. Although
Mr R is an existing member, when the changes happened, he didnt hold an account. Mr R
was therefore no longer eligible to have the travel insurance.
In regards Mr Rs complaint about being discriminated, Nationwide said his age had no
impact on whether he was entitled to travel insurance or not. Mr R wasnt eligible for the
travel insurance because it wasnt offered to new account holders.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He didnt think Mr R had been
treated unfairly by Nationwide in applying its policy regarding offering travel insurance on its
current account. Mr R didnt meet the criteria required as he closed his account in 2014 and 
he didnt open the new one until 12 August 2017.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be referred to
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 4 May 2022. 
I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues for me to decide are whether Mr R has been treated unfairly when
Nationwide didnt offer the free travel insurance to him and whether in doing so, it
discriminated against Mr R.
Has Mr R been treated unfairly?
Mr R had a current account with Nationwide. He closed this in 2014 and at the same time
any benefits he had with the account also ceased  this included the free travel insurance.
This benefit continued to be offered to existing and new customers until 15 December 2016.
Mr R opened another current account in August 2017 as he believed he would be able to
benefit from the travel insurance facility. However, this facility had already been withdrawn to
any new customers and, for those who continued to benefit from the facility had to have a
monthly credit of £750 into the account. Ive reviewed all the information provided from
Nationwide and having done so, I dont think it has treated Mr R unfairly. I appreciate this is
a facility he wanted to benefit from but unfortunately this simply wasnt available to him when
he opened the account again in 2017. A policy decision had been made by the building
society and this isnt something Im able to comment on. I understand Mr R knew people
who did have the benefit but for the reasons explained above and, in the circumstances of
this complaint, Im not persuaded that Mr R he had been treated unfairly.
Has Mr R been discriminated against?
Ive reviewed all the information available. I cant see that Mr R has been treated any
differently to any other customer who opened an account after December 2016. The policy
decision made by Nationwide applied to all new customers who opened their current account
and not just Mr R. Im also not persuaded that Nationwide discriminated against Mr Rs age.
His age had no impact on whether or not the facility would be offered when he opened the
account in 2017. Travel insurance just wasnt offered to new customers after December
2016.
Mr R says he feels Nationwide has discriminated against him given the issue hes had in
not being provided travel insurance on his current account. I can understand why Mr R
feels this way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think Nationwide has done so.
Nor do I think Nationwide has acted unfairly or unreasonably - the policy not to offer travel
insurance on current accounts opened after December 2016 was applied to all new
customers regardless of age.
In response to my provisional decision, Nationwide responded and said it had no further 
comments to add. 
Mr R did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has raised any further comments for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the outcome communicated in my provisional decision. I dont 
uphold Mr Rs complaint against Nationwide. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt treat Mr R unfairly or unreasonably in not providing the 
benefit of travel insurance on his current account when he opened it in 2017. I also dont 
think Nationwide has treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably regarding the policy decision it 
made not to offer travel insurance on current accounts opened after December 2016. This 
decision applied to all new customers and not just Mr R - I therefore dont think he has been 
treated differently or discriminated against. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman