DRN-3832853
The complaint
Mr M complains about overdraft interest applied to his account by Nationwide Building
Society. Mr M also complains about the service provided when he called Nationwide. Mr M
further complains that Nationwide approved a payment that took his account balance over
the agreed overdraft limit.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M has a current account and associated overdraft with Nationwide. In November 2021
Nationwide issued a statement that advised it would charge Mr M £84.50 for arranged
overdraft interest incurred over the previous two months at the end of December 2021.
Nationwide deducted the overdraft charges on 28 December 2021.
On 10 January 2022 Nationwide declined a direct debit payment as it took the account
balance into an unarranged overdraft. On 18 January 2022 the direct debit was claimed
again but this time approved. The payment took Mr Ms account balance into an unarranged
overdraft.
In January 2022 Mr M called Nationwide and asked for information about how the overdraft
interest hed paid was calculated. Mr M pointed out the amount charged was much higher
than previous months. During the call, the agent gave details about how Nationwide
calculates arranged overdraft interest. And the agent read from Mr Ms statement that gave 
advanced notice of the amount Nationwide intended to charge. The call handler didnt give a 
breakdown or explain exactly why the charge Mr M had paid at the end of December 2021 
was higher than expected.
Mr M complained and Nationwide sent him a final response. Nationwide said the arranged
overdraft interest charged on 28 December 2021 was correct. And Nationwide said the direct
debit attempt it had made on 10 January 2022 hadnt led to a loss for Mr M. Nationwide
agreed its agent couldve given a better level of service when speaking with Mr M and paid
him £25 to apologise.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint and said they thought Nationwide
had dealt with it fairly. Mr M asked to appeal and said the issues raised had impacted his
mental health and caused an unreasonable level of upset. Mr M also said Nationwide had 
failed to provide a clear breakdown of the interest charged or given a reasonable level of
service. As Mr M asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different view to the investigator concerning how Nationwide dealt with Mr Ms
complaint. I havent been persuaded that Nationwide dealt with Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
I want to start by saying, the statement evidence Ive seen doesnt show Mr M was
overcharged. I know the payment taken on 28 December 2021 was much higher than
expected and previously taken by Nationwide. But Nationwides now given a technical
explanation. And Nationwides told us that because of the way statement dates fell, Mr M
wasnt charged arranged overdraft interest in November 2021. Instead, the charge was
applied in the following months payment cycle and debited on 28 December 2021, along
with November 2021s arranged overdraft interest.
Mr Ms asked for a more comprehensive breakdown of the interest Nationwide has applied. I
can see Nationwide sent Mr M an annual interest statement at the end of 2021 that set out
how much hed paid in interest over the previous year. I appreciate that may not give Mr M
the level of detail he wants. But Im satisfied it shows the amount of interest Nationwide
charged and the basis on which that interest was applied to the account balances. I havent
found evidence that shows Mr M was overcharged.
Whilst I dont think theres a loss here, I can understand why Mr M was unclear about the
payment Nationwide took. I accept Nationwide noted the level of payment it intended to take
in its November 2021 statement. But Mr M quite rightly picked up that the charge was
around double what he normally paid. And Mr M quite reasonably asked questions to try and
understand how that came about.
Ive listened to the call and agree with Nationwides view that its agent couldve handled Mr
Ms questions better. Whilst I didnt think the agent was intentionally rude, he also didnt
appear to listen to Mr Ms questions and talked over him. I agree Mr M also interrupted the
agent, but I think that reflects a lack of answers to his questions. On several occasions the
agent asked if Mr M needed help understanding how interest was applied, which is what he
was asking for. But they never actually explained why the charge taken at the end of
December 2021 was substantially higher than normal.
In my view, it ought to have been reasonably straight forward for an explanation to be given
to Mr M. Instead, Mr M wasnt given that information and ultimately the tone of the call
became strained. Im not persuaded that the £25 compensation paid to date fairly reflects
the service provided or level of upset caused to Mr M. So I intend to increase the award to
£100, a figure that more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Mr M has also raised concerns that a direct debit was first declined on 10 January 2021 for
insufficient funds then approved a short time later. Looking at Mr Ms statements, I can see
the payment was initially declined. At that point, his account balance was £1,999.96
overdrawn and the direct debit payment was for £10.81. But when Nationwide processed it
again a few days later, Mr Ms account balance had reduced slightly. After the direct debit
was successfully taken the overdraft balance was £2,003.67.
Some businesses use a small buffer at the end of an arranged overdraft and I suspect the
different in account balance between the two attempts was the reason the second direct 
debit was approved. I havent seen anything that shows Nationwides action led to a loss or
resulted in Mr M being treated unfairly. I also think its fair to note that Nationwide processed
the payment in line with its instructions and account terms and conditions.
For the reasons Ive given above, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Nationwide
to increase the settlement offered to £100.I invited both parties to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider before 
I made my final decision. Mr M confirmed he was willing to accept and asked for the 
settlement funds to be paid by cheque. Nationwide confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
him £100 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman