DRN-3674813
The complaint
Mr S complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued his car when he 
claimed under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Ss car was stolen, Admiral offered him an amount for its market value. Mr S said he 
couldnt buy a like for like replacement car for that amount.
The investigator thought that Admirals valuation was fair and reasonable and didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr S our approach regarding complaints about car valuations. 
We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we merely consider whether the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might include 
advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually 
sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any 
advertised prices.
It is standard practice for insurers to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And we dont think its unreasonable to do this. The guides provide 
valuations based on national research of the advertised and likely sales prices of similar 
cars, in a similar condition and with a similar mileage.
Ive looked at how Admiral valued Mr Ss car. As the investigator explained , under the policy 
Admiral must pay the cars market value less the policy excess. Mr Ss policy page 3 defines 
market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term
market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on research from
industry recognised motor trade guides. 
Admiral at first offered Mr S £26,265 less excess for his cars market value. They said theyd 
reached that by looking at just one guide. However shortly after that they increased their 
offer to that guides maximum value, which was £27,065, less excess. Mr S still didnt agree. 
Admiral then looked at another guide. It showed a market value of £29,200. So Admiral 
offered Mr S that higher amount, less the £200 excess.
Admiral accepted theyd got the valuation wrong at first. They apologised and offered Mr S 
£25 compensation and Im satisfied that they resolved this promptly. Admiral showed us that 
they used two relevant trades guides and took the higher of their valuations as their starting 
point. Thats in line with our guidelines. So I think that was fair. And as the final offer was 
made within about a few weeks of the first, and within about a month of the incident, I dont 
think that was an unreasonable delay. 
As the investigator explained to Mr S, she did an independent check of three guides, and 
found Admirals market value offer to be fairly within their range too. So she thought their 
settlement offer was fair.
Mr S thought that it wasnt fair for Admiral to rely on the guides. He said they were only 
guides and his car was a relatively rare, specialist one which had low availability in the UKs 
current second-hand car market. He said that the market was affected by limited availability 
and higher pricing overall. He showed us adverts which he said suggested a higher value for 
car like his. He also referred us to a published case study in support of his view. 
The case study is about a classic motorbike which was over 25 years old and which only 
appeared in one trade guide. That guide admitted that they didnt normally value motorbikes 
that old as their values were inaccurate. However Mr Ss car is a 2010 model , I dont think it 
is a rare or classic car or that it has special features, and it does appear in the trade guides. 
By checking two guides, Admiral have followed our guidelines. 
 
I see that Mr S thinks that his cars market value wasnt statistically represented by the trade 
guides at the time of the claim and he wanted us to ask the guides how many transactions 
support their values. However the trade guide valuations change month by month and are 
sufficiently up to date to take market fluctuations into account, so we dont go behind the 
guides. As I said above, we place less reliance on private sale adverts for similar cars as we 
dont think adverts reflect actual selling prices and we find the guides are better reflection of 
market value at any time. The cars in the adverts Mr S provided dont match his car, and are 
different ages and mileages. So I dont think they override the trade guides valuations. 
I think it was very unfortunate that Mr S has lost his car to theft. But Mr S have shown that 
they followed a fair and established process to decide his cars value, and I think their offer 
was reasonable. This means that I dont require them to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
