DRN-2008725
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the information AXA PPP Healthcare Limited provided her before 
taking out a private medical insurance policy on a continuation basis. She also says she was 
unfairly targeted to take out the policy.
What happened
Ms R had the benefit of a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA, 
which was due to end on 6 March 2019. 
Ms R called AXA towards the end of January 2019 and spoke with one of its representatives. 
She enquired about taking out a personal private health insurance policy on a continuation 
basis i.e. shed enjoy the same cover she had the benefit of under the group policy and that 
cover would continue.
Ms R is unhappy that AXA didnt make clear the different levels of cover or that the cost of 
taking out the policy on a continuation basis would be far higher than a policy which included 
a moratorium on certain claims being made. 
She says, thereafter, AXA continuously contacted her, saying that time was running out to 
take out the policy on a continuation basis. She says she felt unfairly targeted by this.
Ms R ended up taking out the policy on a continuation basis with effect of 7 March 2019. 
However, in June 2019, she contacted AXA again because shed been discharged by her 
psychiatrist and wanted to remove the mental health benefit under the policy. This reduced 
the monthly premium she was paying by around £35 each month. 
Other options were discussed to reduce the premium further, and that included choosing a 
policy with a moratorium. She was told this would further reduce the monthly premium by a 
further £272 per month from £353.38 to £81.44. Ms R accepted this option and it became 
effective from 7 July 2019.
Ms R says she shouldve been made aware of all the options available to her before taking 
out the policy on a continuation basis with effect of 7 March 2019  including how theyre 
costed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. As Ms R doesnt agree, her complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. I know shell be very disappointed with my 
decision but hopefully shell understand my reasons when I explain why.
AXA has provided a summary of what was discussed during its representatives calls with 
Ms R on 28 January 2019 and 4 March 2019; before the policy was taken out on a 
continuation basis. Ive asked AXA for recordings of those calls but due to the length of time 
that has passed, theyre no longer available. Thats not particularly surprising given that the 
calls took place over two years ago.
The call summaries Ive seen reflect the following:
- On 28 January 2019, Ms R called about continuation cover given that her 
membership to the group policy was due to end on 6 March 2019. Shes told that 
AXA doesnt provide any advice or recommendations about policy options. However, 
she is informed that AXA is able to offer a new personal plan with continuation of 
cover. And, as such, any medical underwriting would be retained. Alternatively, Ms R 
is told that AXA could start her medical history afresh as a new member. Ms R 
opted to be quoted for a policy on a continuation basis and shes told she has 120 
days from the date on which she leaves her group policyholders employment to take 
out this option. Towards the end of the call Ms R says she will visit AXAs website to 
see what other options are available.
- On 4 March 2019, Ms R calls AXA to ask whether it can do anything with the price of 
the policy. Shes told it can look at the option of restarting her medical history but Ms 
R declines. The benefits relating to the options she decided to take were discussed 
and AXAs representative looks at ways to reduce the price by selecting less 
expensive benefits. Shes also told that the policy is priced to cover planned and 
pending treatment.
Ms R says she doesnt recall the option of restarting her medical history being discussed in 
detail. However, she does say she was told that it wouldnt cover existing medical conditions. 
AXA says it didnt recommend the policy to Ms R. And Ms R hasnt disputed that in response 
to our investigators view. Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied AXA sold the policy to 
Ms R on a non-advised basis.
This being the case, I dont think AXA was under any obligation to ascertain Ms Rs needs in 
order to make a suitable recommendation or make a price comparison between different 
options. 
However, it did have an obligation to tell her about the main features of the policy in a fair, 
clear and not misleading way and that included the cost of the policy shed chosen to take 
out. I think its likely that she was told this. Although the call summary of 4 March 2019 
makes no mention of the cost, the summary of the call dated 28 January 2019 does set out 
the monthly premium she was quoted at the time and that was higher than she ended up 
paying. So, I think its more likely than not that a further conversation about the cost of the 
premium did take place during the call on 4 March 2019 which led Ms R to agree to take out 
the policy. Further the welcome pack which was sent to Ms R thereafter sets out the cost of 
the policy. And even if Ms R didnt read this document, Im satisfied that AXA did what it 
reasonably needed to do to provide her with the necessary information about the main 
features of the policy. 
Ms R says that the percentage by which the cost of the policy was loaded due to her 
medical history wasnt disclosed to her before taking out the policy. That doesnt seem to be 
in dispute. 
However, Im satisfied, based on all the information Ive seen, that Ms R didnt want to 
explore other options available to her at the time although she was given this opportunity by AXAs representatives. So, there was no need for AXA to provide a quote for a policy with a 
moratorium so that she could see for herself whether there was a significant price difference 
between the two levels of cover. 
Nor do I think AXA was obliged to tell Ms R that the policy shed chosen cost significantly 
more than a moratorium policy or a detailed breakdown on how it priced the policy. Further, 
based on my understanding and experience of how insurers price medical insurance 
policies, Im persuaded that until the policy was re-screened taking into account any changes 
Ms R wanted to make to the policy, AXAs representative wouldnt have been aware of the 
price difference. 
Had she opted to find out more information about the other options, she wouldve then been 
able to compare and weigh up the price and benefits of the different types of policies herself 
before deciding which one to proceed with. 
When making this finding Ive considered what Ms R says about being vulnerable at the 
time. From the call summary notes Ive seen, it looks like AXAs representative was aware 
that shed been seeing a psychiatrist. But AXA has said the only information it had been sent 
by Ms Rs psychiatrist was the type of treatment shed had; the cost and the date treatment 
took place. It didnt receive any reports detailing the history of Ms Rs condition. Thats 
consistent with my knowledge of how insurers are invoiced for approved treatment carried 
out by medical professionals. So, Im persuaded by what AXA has said about not knowing 
the reasons behind the treatment being sought or shouldve reasonably known, or assumed, 
that she was vulnerable. Nor am I persuaded that it was aware that she left her employment 
in distressing circumstances.
So, I dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably by not doing anything further to assist 
Ms R before the policy was taken out.
Ms R is also unhappy with the number of times AXA contacted her about the policy before it 
was taken out. She says she felt targeted. 
AXA has provided a screenshot confirming that four failed attempts were made to contact 
Ms R about the policy in early February 2019, following on from the conversation she had on 
28 January 2019. But having not been able to speak to Ms R no further attempts were made 
to contact her. 
Ive asked our investigator to enquire with Ms R whether she mightve been contacted on 
another number so that AXA can search its records again. However, she hasnt been able to 
provide one. So, Im persuaded that no further calls took place between Ms R and AXA until 
Ms R contacted AXA on 4 March 2019.
Given that Ms R had discussed taking out a policy with AXA at the end of January 2019, I 
dont think its unreasonable for AXA to try to follow this up around a week later. And when 
unable to speak with her, trying to contact her a few times without success.
Ive also considered that Ms R says she received repeated mailshots from AXA telling her 
about the option to take out private medical insurance on a continuation basis. And that it 
was following the final mailshot telling her that time was running out that she contacted AXA.  
AXA has been able to provide us with templates of the type of mailshots Ms R is likely to 
have received. Im satisfied that the information contained in the mailshots Ive seen, and the 
language used, isnt unfair or unreasonable. Im satisfied that they were simply acting as a 
reminder that the offer for the policy to be continued would only be available for a limited 
time. My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman