DRN-3458119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service they received from ReAssure Limited, in relation to
information they tried to obtain about their bond online.
As compensation theyd like ReAssure to pay them 10% of their bonds value.
What happened
In late March 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:  
provisionally, Im minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what ReAssure says, I think it should
pay Mr and Mrs M a total of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
This equates to £50 each, for the distress and inconvenience they each suffered.
I appreciate in its Final Response Letter (dated December 2020), ReAssure said:
Currently we are only inviting a small number of customers to activate their online access.
Overtime, we will gradually invite more customers to join.
Please accept my personal apologies for not keeping you updated, this was a mistake on
our part and shouldnt have happened.
I think ReAssure shouldve done more to manage their expectation in terms of what was
going on and why. I note the investigator said ReAssure shouldve explained the phased 
online access and Im minded to agree.
I also think ReAssure ought reasonably to have given Mr and Mrs M an alternative method
of accessing information relating to their investment  even if it wasnt online  such as via
the telephone.
The above notwithstanding, I appreciate that efforts were made by ReAssure to try and
facilitate online access, including assistance from an IT consultant, in late December 2020.
Im aware that by this time Mr and Mrs M received a valuation of their investment  which is
what they wanted to begin with  however, it wasnt until early 2021, several months later 
that they had access to the bond online.
Im mindful that at the time Mr and Mrs M were pensioners, in their late 70s, vulnerable and
shielding. They were also trying to get their finances in order given their concerns around
mortality. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the not having access to their bond
online and up to date information, over several months, was likely to have caused them
distress and inconvenience.
However, in the circumstances, I dont blame ReAssure for not (voluntarily) providing an
updated bond value in response to their initial enquiry about online access, or for not
providing subsequent updates in the post, because thats not what it was asked to do. I   
understand that the issue with regards to the bond value was raised later.
Despite what Mr and Mrs M say, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the bond wasnt being
managed/administered properly just because they didnt have online access. In other words, 
expect for the online access issue, Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was anything 
wrong with the way that the investment was being administered by ReAssure. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs M say, a drop in value could be down to several factors, including
adverse market conditions which are beyond the control of ReAssure. Without the benefit of
hindsight, the business couldnt have been able to predict or control the impact of a global
pandemic either, for which it isnt responsible.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before reaching a final decision.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my provisional decision and reiterated their objections as set 
out in their primary complaint. In summary, Mr M said:
He appreciates the increased offer of compensation but is still not sure if their bond 
was managed properly. 
If it transpires that ReAssure has managed the bond properly, theyll have to accept 
the £100 compensation. But hed like the ombudsman to look at the asset value of 
ReAssure. 
If £100 is the typical type of compensation, its a disincentive for people like him to 
complain. 
Hes only following this through to be able to inform other investors of the outcome.  
ReAssure also responded but had no further points to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs M say, I still think 
ReAssure should pay them a total of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. This equates to £50 each, for the distress and inconvenience they each suffered.
I still think ReAssure shouldve done more to manage Mr and Mrs Ms expectation in terms 
of what was going on and why. I note the investigator said ReAssure shouldve explained the 
phased online access and I agree. I also think ReAssure ought reasonably to have given 
them an alternative method of accessing information relating to their investment  even if it 
wasnt online  such as via the telephone. 
Im sorry Mr M doesnt agree with my decision, but for the reasons explained I dont think he 
and Mrs M are entitled to the losses claimed. Despite what Mr and Mrs M say, expect for the online access issue, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that there was anything wrong with the way that the investment was being 
administered by ReAssure. 
Ive already explained in my provisional decision a drop in value could be down to several 
factors, including adverse market conditions which are beyond the control of ReAssure. 
Without the benefit of hindsight, ReAssure couldnt have been able to predict or control the 
impact of a global pandemic either, for which it isnt responsible.
Im mindful of what Mr M says, but the level of compensation isnt linked to the size of the 
business, rather the impact the business error has had on the consumers. Despite what Mr 
and Mrs M say, I dont believe I need to consider the asset value of ReAssure in order to 
reach a decision in this case. 
In this instance Im aware that despite ReAssure taking steps to address the issue of online 
access, by late 2020 Mr and Mrs M had received a valuation of their investment  which is 
what they wanted to begin with. 
I note that the specific issue wasnt raised until later, and thats why I still dont blame 
ReAssure for not (voluntarily) providing an updated bond value in response to their initial 
enquiry about online access. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive maintained my decision. 
Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im only going to ask ReAssure to pay them £100 
compensation, which I think is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances and equates 
to £50 each, for the distress and inconvenience they each suffered.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr and Mrs M what they want.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
ReAssure Limited should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman