DRN-4253186
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement with Tesla 
Financial Services Limited trading as Tesla Financial Services (Tesla).
What happened
In December 2022 Mrs L acquired a new car under a conditional sale agreement with Tesla. 
The car cost £62,280 and Mrs L made an advance payment of £11,700. The rest of the 
balance was due to be paid over 48 repayments of £758.73 followed by a final repayment of 
£23,043.60.
Unfortunately, Mrs L said the car had issues. She emailed Tesla in December 2022 and said 
the car vibrated at motorway speeds and had a rattle from the rear. Mrs L told Tesla she 
wished to reject the car. Mrs L later raised some further issues with the car including with the 
windows, automatic headlights and stitching on the seats.
Tesla explained it would look into Mrs Ls concerns and it issued a final response at the end 
of January 2023. This explained, in summary, that a mobile technician had visited the car 
around two weeks prior and investigated the issues that Mrs L raised.
Tesla said it found no faults with a vibration from the steering wheel or the windows not 
closing. It said the issue with the headlight main beam coming on would be fixed with a 
firmware update. It did acknowledge that stitching had come loose on the rear seats, but it 
said this wasnt reasonable grounds to return the car.
Mrs L responded and said the car had rattles from all over the interior. Tesla said that 
because vibrations and rattles were excluded from its warranty, it couldnt consider this as a 
reason to return the car.
Mrs L brought the complaint to our service. In summary, she said the car has issues with 
rattling, stitching on the seats coming off, the adaptive cruise control system putting brakes 
on dangerously and the adaptive headlights remaining on full beam. Mrs L said she wanted 
to return the car to Tesla.
Shortly after she referred the complaint to our service, in February 2023 Mrs L got an 
independent inspection carried out on the car. This recorded the mileage as 3,696. The 
inspection noted:
loose stitching on a rear seat
the inspector had seen a video where the headlights didnt dip when entering a 
street lit residential area
an issue with a window opening where it would begin to travel and then reverse back
issues with squeaks and rattles from the car
the cruise control automatically braking momentarily when no other vehicles or 
obstacles were in close proximity
B pillar trims poorly fitted
Mrs L also let our service know that she had stopped driving the car and had acquired a new 
one. She was unhappy with paying for two finance agreements and said this was causing 
her issues.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that she 
didnt think the car supplied to Mrs L was of satisfactory quality due to the issues noted by 
Tesla and the independent inspection.
Our investigator said Mrs L should be able to reject the car. She said Mrs L had explained 
she stopped driving the car in March 2023, so all repayments made from this point should be 
refunded. She said 20% of the repayments up to this point should be refunded to reflect the 
impaired usage Mrs L had. She said Tesla should pay Mrs L £300 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And she said Tesla should remove any negative information from 
Mrs Ls credit file about the agreement.
Mrs L replied and said she had acquired her new car on 4 February 2023, rather than in 
March 2023, and shed stopped using this car at this point. And she said shed had to pay 
£80 to have a private plate transferred from the car.
Our investigator got in touch with Tesla and asked it to consider reimbursing the cost of 
transferring the plate from Mrs Ls car.
Our investigator explained to Mrs L that, during a phone call with our service, Mrs L had 
mentioned she was still using the car in February 2023. So she said she still thought it was 
fair for Tesla to reimburse the full payments from March 2023 when she originally said she 
stopped using the car.
Tesla also responded and said it thought the issues were minor and werent defects. So it 
said these were not grounds for the return of the car.
As Tesla disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Tesla and Mrs L a provisional decision on 29 June 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mrs L complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit agreements such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mrs Ls complaint about Tesla.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Tesla here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider here that the car supplied to Mrs L was brand new 
and cost over £60,000. This means I think a reasonable person would have very high standards for the quality of the car. I think they would expect it to be in mint condition, free 
from even minor faults and would expect trouble free motoring for some time.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mrs L was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
The first thing I need to consider is whether there were faults with the car. Having reviewed 
the evidence, I think its obvious this was the case. Ill explain why.
I should firstly say that, while the invoice Tesla supplied from where the mobile technician 
attended the car does briefly mention some of the issues Mrs L complains about, there is 
very little to no commentary and very few details here. So, I havent put much weight on this.
The independent report Mrs L provided gives some further information which I think is more 
persuasive. This noted:
The stitching of the rear seat base cover is loose and becoming unfastened allowing the 
sections of the seat cover to become separated
An intermittent fault occurs with the operation of the drop glass, whereby it commences it's 
travel and then reverses and travels in the opposite direction. This was witnessed occurring 
to the right front drop glass during our inspection
On road test we noted a high level of creaks and squeaks emanating from the interior trims 
and rear seat. The creaks and squeaks were noticeably coming from the luggage 
compartment area, and from the driver's side inner roof rail/headlining area
There would seem to be an intermittent fault with the cruise control in that the car will on 
occasions break momentarily when there are no other vehicles or obstacles in close 
proximity. This was witnessed to occur during a road test.
We noted the 'B' pillar interior trims on both sides were poorly fitted
The seat belt height adjuster trims were found to be loose, and extremely poorly fitting on 
both sides
The issues noted in the report reflect what Mrs L made Tesla and our service aware of. So, 
Im satisfied the car had the faults detailed above.
Ive also noted that this report was carried out less than three months after the car was 
delivered to Mrs L. And the mileage was recorded as 3,696. Given how soon this was after 
Mrs L got the car, and that shed covered under 4,000 miles, Im satisfied these faults were 
either present or developing when the car was supplied.
In relation to the headlights, Im less persuaded there was a fault here. I say this as the 
independent inspection based its findings, in relation to the headlights, from a video, rather 
than witnessing things directly.
Ive also reviewed the video Mrs L gave to our service. But, its difficult to see exactly what is 
happening and the external conditions - and so its very hard to conclude if the system was 
working correctly or not.
That being said, I dont need to make a finding on whether the headlights were faulty. Thats 
because, due to the other issues above, either way this individual issue wouldnt affect my 
opinion on the case nor what I would consider to be fair and reasonable to put things right.Tesla said that these faults were minor issues and not defects. And so it said Mrs L 
shouldnt be able to return the car. But, I strongly disagree here. Im not sure of the 
distinction Tesla makes with its point here between a fault or a defect. But, Im satisfied 
these issues are present, whatever they are referred to as. I also would not describe some of 
these issues as minor  particularly the interior noises and the cruise control braking, which 
could be a serious safety concern.
Even if I accepted what Tesla said here about the issues being minor, Im satisfied a 
reasonable person would not expect even small issues on a car that was brand new and 
cost over £60,000.
Its also worth noting to Tesla that I also disagree with its earlier response to Mrs L, where it 
said that because rattles or vibrations arent covered under a warranty, it couldnt consider 
rejecting the car due to these issues. Any warranty terms and conditions are separate from 
Mrs Ls rights under the CRA and Im satisfied what is covered under the warranty, or not, 
has no bearing on whether the car was of satisfactory quality in this case.
Considering everything here, Im satisfied the above issues meant the car supplied to Mrs L 
was not of satisfactory quality. So, I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable 
to put things right.
Ive firstly considered Mrs Ls rights under the CRA. The CRA explains a consumer has the 
short term right to reject if goods are of unsatisfactory quality and the consumer exercises 
this right within 30 days of the goods being transferred to their possession.
As above, Im satisfied the goods were not of satisfactory quality. And Ive seen an email to 
Tesla where Mrs L asked to reject the car around two weeks after she took delivery of it. So 
Im satisfied Mrs L both had a short term right to reject the car, and exercised this right within 
the time limits set out in the CRA. It follows Im satisfied Tesla shouldve allowed her to reject 
the car, and I think its fair and reasonable that Mrs L should still be able to do this.
I then need to consider what else would be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Ive thought about Mrs Ls use of the car. It isnt in dispute that Mrs L did use the car for a 
period. Mrs L has been a little inconsistent in what she told us here  she originally told our 
service she acquired a second car in March 2023 and so stopped driving this car. She later 
said the newer car was delivered at the beginning of February 2023. Based on what Ive 
seen so far and having listened to the call with our investigator, I think its most likely Mrs L 
stopped driving this car around the beginning of March 2023. So, I think Tesla should 
reimburse her any repayments made since this point.
That being said, I do understand its perfectly possible for Mrs L to have made an innocent 
mistake here. So, if she can provide some further evidence about this, such as a current 
photo showing the mileage being the same, or very close to, the mileage recorded from the 
independent report in February, I will happily reconsider this. Its worth noting to Tesla that if 
Mrs L does send this evidence, Ill likely detail in my final decision that all repayments should 
be reimbursed from February 2023.
Ive also thought about how the car was performing when Mrs L drove it. While as above Im 
satisfied she used it, Im also satisfied this usage was impaired due to the faults the car had.
I agree with our investigator that it would be fair and reasonable to reimburse 20% of 
repayments for the time Mrs L drove the car.
I also agree with our investigator that Mrs L has been caused distress and inconvenience because of what happened. I think it must have been stressful to discover the issues with the 
car. Mrs L has explained a car is essential to her due to where she lives and this situation 
has affected her family life. She said she hasnt felt safe when using this car. Shes had to 
spend time and effort sourcing and acquiring a new car. And she said she struggled with 
financing two cars at one time. I agree with our investigator that Tesla should pay Mrs L 
£300 to reflect this.
Mrs L also had to pay out for the independent inspection. Our investigator didnt mention 
this, but I think its fair Tesla should reimburse her here. That being said, I havent seen 
evidence of the cost. So, Tesla only needs to reimburse this on production of a valid invoice 
and/or receipt.
Ive also seen evidence that Mrs L paid £80 to transfer a number plate from the car in 
January 2023. Thinking about this, unless Mrs L decided to keep the car at the end of the 
agreement, she was always going to have to pay this. But, given this was transferred so 
soon into the agreement, Im satisfied Mrs L didnt get the benefit of transferring the plate, so 
I also think this should be reimbursed.
Mrs L has also raised that she has paid to have a charger installed at her home. But, I cant 
see this formed part of the credit agreement. And I also think its possible she may have 
future benefit of this, or its possible she may have other recourse for a refund here. So, I 
dont think Tesla needs to take any action on this point.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further evidence or points to consider.
Tesla didnt respond.
Mrs L got in touch and said she agreed with my provisional decision. And she provided an 
invoice for the independent inspection of £198 from 7 February 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about all of the information on this case again. Having done so, I still think it 
should be upheld. This is due to the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set 
out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Tesla Financial Services Limited  
trading as Tesla Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay*
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mrs L
Reimburse Mrs L the advance payment of £11,700**
Reimburse Mrs L all repayments from 1 March 2023**
Reimburse Mrs L 20% of all repayments made towards the agreement until 1 March 
2023**Reimburse Mrs L £198 for the cost of the independent report from 7 February 2023**
Reimburse Mrs L £80 for the transfer of the number plate from 31 January 2023**
Pay Mrs L £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ls credit file in relation to this agreement
*Mrs L has mentioned Tesla has said it may apply late payment fees to the account since 
she brought the complaint to our service  to be clear these should be waived if any have 
been added
** These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Tesla considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman