DRN-3187120
The complaint
Mr C has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
make investments within the scheme including a discretionary managed portfolio and a 
Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr C is represented by a claims 
management company (CMC) in this complaint.
What happened
In mid 2013 Mr C was a transport worker approaching age 55, with no dependants earning 
about £28,000pa. He owned his home with an outstanding mortgage, but had £30,000 of 
other debts and had little in the way of savings and investments other than a LV= personal 
pension and an occupational scheme with about 10 years service  which isnt involved in 
this complaint.
His CMC says that he was cold-called before meetings took place at his home to discuss 
transferring his pension into a SSAS which would invest in TRGs Llana Beach resort as well 
as a discretionary portfolio. Mr C recalls being told these investments would do much better 
than his existing LV= plan, but not specifically what investments were involved.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Cs pension, on 23 October 2013 a new employer 
was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. Mr C would have signed an 
employment contract with that company, and on the same day he also signed terms of 
business agreeing that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for the 
purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95).
(For reference, s.36 of PA95 requires trustees of an occupational pension scheme such as 
a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the question whether the investment is 
satisfactory having regard to the requirements of regulations under subsection (1), so far as 
relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 also warns that the advice required under 
this section may constitute the carrying on of a regulated activity under the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
On 18 December 2013 a SSAS was established by trust deed for Mr Cs new employer with 
him as sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. The SSAS had 
an annual fee of £500+VAT. It was registered with HMRC. On 21 January 2014 CGL then 
requested a transfer of Mr Cs LV= policy using forms Mr C had signed.
We know that around this time an unregulated introducer firm was working with CMIM (Your 
Choice Pensions or YCP). It sent letters to prospective candidates for the TRG investment 
and CMIMs Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service, whilst its sister firm Consumer 
Money Matters contacted the existing pension providers for information. We dont have 
Mr Cs copy of YCPs letter but LV= has confirmed it heard from Consumer Money Matters in 
November 2013. We know from other complaints that YCPs letter is likely to have said:
Please find enclosed written advice on your proposed investment into commercial property in 
Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by Central Markets Investment Management Limited 
under your instruction for your consideration.
CMIM has sent us a copy of what the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear Trustee 
letter - would have said. The letter does not refer to the trustee by name and mentions that 
the business has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with 
advice that it understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and 
furthermore, the TRG investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. And the reference to an exit strategy was that the trustee needed to 
plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in particular purchasing an 
annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed.
Investments held overseas may have additional risks such as currency fluctuations, which may 
impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; political risk to ownership and title; and 
commercial risk to the delivery and management of a property/resort.
You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss.
You should ensure that you only invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles 
that where an investor is looking to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their
investment. Our advice to investors is to consider the need for diversification carefullyWe have 
not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and accordingly are not 
providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such 
investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you seek independent 
financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.
On 20 November 2014 Mr C sent a templated letter giving investment instructions to CGL. 
He wanted £10,000 to be invested in TRG and another £10,000 to CMIMs DFM service. It 
said that advice has been obtained and considered from CMIM on the proposed investments; and that the trustee member believes CMIM to be appropriately qualified to 
assess the suitabiltiy of that investment for the SSAS under s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995.
LV= transferred £28,842 to CGL on 2 December 2014. CGL wrote back to Mr C on 13 
January 2015 to confirm receipt of his investment instruction and that £10,000 had been 
invested with TRG (through an agreement for sale of membership in a UK company limited 
by guarantee), and about £9,355 into CMIMs DFM arrangement. The TRG resort was 
subsequently switched with Mr Cs agreement from Llana to Dunas Beach in August 2015.
Mr C had also completed a CGL drawdown application on 1 July 2014 to withdraw £7,175 of  
tax-free cash on 8 December 2014, but no income. However a further payment of £1,500 
(which may or may not be an income withdrawal  CGL should be asked to clarify this) was 
made from the SSAS on 10 December 2014.
The original agreement for sale of fractional ownership shows a special discount was 
offered on the purchase, paid back to investors by monthly instalments at 7%pa for a 
maximum period of the first two years  after which rental income was expected to be 
payable when the resort opened. Those remaining features were transferred to the new 
agreement with Dunas Beach. The UK limited company had entered into separate contracts 
with developers to build the property, and to pay a third party to manage it.
By March 2015 Mr C seems to have been advised by Organic Investment Management to 
switch the £9,087 he by then had in CMIMs DFM to Organic. A medium risk preference over 
a 5-10 year horizon was expressed at that time. In June 2016 TRG began paying a regular 
quarterly income of about £30-40 into Mr Cs SSAS, with a further one-off payment of £758 
in January 2017. The last quarterly payment I can see being made was in March 2019. 
The Organic portfolio was also sold in August 2017 to fund what appear to be further gross 
withdrawals of £2,000 in May 2017 and £3,068 in August 2018. A further investment of 
£3,000 was made into a Zurich investment portfolio in October 2018 on the advice of Astute 
Financial Management, whom CGL had referred Mr C to. This was 50% invested in shares.
Mr Cs CMC complained in July 2019 that CMIMs advice had been unsuitable in respect of 
both the TRG investment and discretionary portfolio. CMIM didnt respond directly to the 
complaint so the CMC referred it to our service. CMIM has made a number of submissions 
on this and similar complaints and I summarise these below:
Much of its data was lost or corrupted following its IT migration to a new system 
following the decentralisation from its FX trading company in 2017.
CMIM was first approached by Your Choice Pensions (YCP) in mid-2013 and knew 
customers were in the process of establishing CGL SSASs to invest in TRG. It 
entered into an introducing agent agreement with YCP. Its only financial benefit arose 
out of the opportunity to promote its DFM service for the residual funds. It attended 
numerous meetings with the marketers of the SSAS, including YCP.
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky, only appropriate when considered as part of a diverse 
portfolio of investments where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its 
DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk 
portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
CMIM had no interaction with Mr C or physical handling of any investment, except 
when it received instructions to allocate funds to its DFM service. A full suitability 
check relating to the specific trustee was only carried out at that point. To the best of 
its knowledge all communications were routed through CGL.
The dates trustees received their dear Trustee letter were very close to the date stated on the Trust Deed to establish the SSAS. This suggests that no reliance was 
placed on this letter as the trustees had already decided to invest in TRG, and they 
also had their own statutory duties as a trustee to invest prudently.
CGL had told them it would accept the investment (after presumably carrying out its 
own due diligence into TRG), and required them to sign a letter stating they had relied 
on CMIMs advice - without CMIM's knowledge. It deliberately misrepresented CMIM 
as the provider of investment advice that was regulated as a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS. Its 
terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice.
It accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
YCP refers to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator. [G]iven their declaration as 
experts in the field of SSAS pensions, Cantwell Groves lack of consideration of 
[inexperienced investors] as a suitable candidate for a SSAS Pension was both 
reckless and negligent.
After approximately 9 months Mr Cs DFM arrangement moved to Organic Investment 
Management, so CMIM has no responsibility for how he was invested after that point.
We put some of CMIMs comments to CGL. It said the following:
- It disputes that it acted as a funnel for communications between CMIM and Mr C. It 
believes CMIMs involvement was co-ordinated from the outset by YCP.
-Prior to consenting to investments, as the scheme administrator, we would fully expect 
that the trustee would consider advice. The investment advice wouldnt necessarily 
need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, it should be from a person or firm 
that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
The investigator also spoke to Mr C directly and corroborated the recollections provided by 
his CMC (which Ive added to above). His comments reflected the fact that he was financially 
unsophisticated and got drawn in by the promise of better returns. He found the salesman 
who visited his home convincing, and had the impression that switching a pension was much 
like switching an energy supplier. When asked how he would have reacted if CMIM had 
advised the TRG investment was not in his best interests, Mr C said that this would have put 
him off investing - or at least have led to him seeking a second opinion on it.
In summary, our investigator took the view that CMIM should have advised Mr C not to 
invest in TRG: firstly because it was unsuitable for him as an unsophisticated investor, but 
secondly because to do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective 
investment scheme (UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions.
CMIM didnt agree with the investigator. Some of the points it made reiterated its previous 
admissions. The following is a summary of its new points:
The only client relationship was between CGL, its intermediaries and the trustees, who 
received the dear Trustee letters hand-delivered to them in their homes. Naming 
CMIM gave the pension advice they were giving the intended air of credibility.
The terms of business between CMIM and the trustees was to ensure that they 
understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly was not contracting to 
provide advice that was regulated by the FCA, and denied all liability in such respects. 
So it was not necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial 
circumstances of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for the DFM investment.It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
As in its view Mr C did not rely upon the dear Trustee letter, it might just as well have 
not existed. That was a view taken by another investigator and so this service was not 
being consistent in its approach.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
The people that promoted TRG to Mr C were the original introducers, and that also 
extended to CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr C to authorise the 
investment. It did not extend to CMIM, as its dear Trustee letter did not amount to a 
significant step in him making the investment given the warnings it contained. It also 
encouraged Mr C to seek independent advice from an IFA.
Considering all of the above it was wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Cs loss 
100% to CMIM. CGL described themselves as specialists in the field of SSAS 
pensions, and should be held responsible for Mr Cs losses. They were complicit in 
every step necessary for Mr C to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, 
which it was in their interest to do as they received remuneration from the SSAS.
CMIM also made some observations on redress, which Ill address when I reach that point in 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr C to invest in TRG?
Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the arrangements that CMIM had put into 
place with YCP led to Mr C receiving a dear trustee letter at the time  even though hes not 
been able to locate his copy now. He went on to become a client of CMIM in respect of its 
DFM service and I dont think that was a coincidence. I consider CMIM ought to have been 
aware as a result of this that Mr C had received the dear trustee letter. 
Receipt of that letter meant, in my view, that CMIM did carry out the regulated activity of 
advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a 
particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my emphasis)
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice in this case was not specific enough 
because it didnt refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the 
characteristics of a UCIS  Mr C would be participating in a (named) pooled property 
scheme where the hotel resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole.
CMIM accepts this was a UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the 
apartment that TRG denoted Mr Cs investment by to meet that definition.As CMIM itself said, it attended numerous preliminary meetings with YCP or CGL and 
reviewed detailed documentation regarding the investment to ensure it was suitable for 
SSAS investment and as to risk. That indicates the preparation it made for the advice it 
gave. However, advice given in 2014 that wasnt a personal recommendation wasnt caught 
by chapter 9 of COBS  the regulators rules governing suitability.
I agree CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation. It said in the terms of 
business that it wasnt giving individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your 
personal financial circumstances. And the end of its dear Trustee letter reminds Mr C that it 
hadnt assessed those circumstances. The FCA definition of a personal recommendation, 
with my emphasis, is:
a recommendation that is advice on investments, or advice on a home finance transaction and 
is presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made, or is based on a consideration of 
the circumstances of that person.
A recommendation is not a personal recommendation if it is issued exclusively through 
distribution channels or to the public.
The part of the definition before the word or does indicate its possible to make a personal
recommendation without considering that persons specific circumstances - if it is presented
in such a way that the recipient reasonably believes the firm is endorsing the investment as
being suitable for them in particular. But if I approach this from Mr Cs position I have to take 
into account that CMIM told him it wasnt making a personal recommendation; he knew he 
hadnt met anyone from CMIM; and no fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Mr C ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt
for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as 
an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr C felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had personally
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly
a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by
it separately encouraging him to seek further independent advice. If it thought Mr C was 
better off doing that then in my view it shouldnt have advised him at all. And its open to me 
to consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9.
Ill return to these later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as TRG was a
UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr C, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had 
already invited Mr C to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:
An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr C had already decided to invest in TRG, so the dear 
Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in his thinking. However I dont think this is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
(1) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
(2) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter were being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM arrangement held alongside it;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr C to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way. CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment. 
It would have been apparent to CMIM that other third parties had quite a lot of influence over 
what the trustees did, as this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely to 
receive the DFM business if it discouraged the investment in TRG. I think that, given this 
clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in persuading Mr C to 
make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how much attention Mr C 
paid to it at the time, he then signed an instruction declaring that he had regard for it in 
making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise this is what would follow then it should 
have done, given it said it was giving its advice for the purposes of PA95.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr C was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr C to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation
on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption incertain limited circumstances. This underlines that advising on (and not just personally 
recommending) an investment could always have amounted to a promotion: the very nature 
of promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though
YCP may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt make a personal
recommendation).
Did Mr C qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion?
Mr C is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of 
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. This leaves the range of 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R, most of which werent available because Mr C doesnt 
appear to have been high net worth or sophisticated and didnt have any of the other 
professions or roles specified.
The remaining COBS exemptions were slightly altered on 1 January 2014. We dont know 
when the dear trustee letter was delivered to Mr C, but Im persuaded it was likely before 
the transfer of his existing personal pension was completed. If he got the dear trustee letter 
before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant COBS exemption was a Category 2 person, 
being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group 
as the firm
Mr C was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e.
activities which were regulated by the FCA). Mr Cs agreement with CMIM specifically  
excluded such regulated activities, so he could not have met the definition of a newly 
accepted client.
If it was after 1 January 2014, the new exemption for solicited advice only allowed a 
promotion where the communication met all of the following requirements:
(a)  the communication only amounts to a financial promotion because it is a personal 
recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment;
(b) the personal recommendation is made following a specific request by that client for advice on 
the merits of investing in the non-mainstream pooled investment; and
(c) the client has not previously received a financial promotion or any other communication from 
the firm (or from a person connected to the firm) which is intended to influence the client in 
relation to that non-mainstream pooled investment. [See Note 3.]
Here the explanatory notes confirm that business relationships with a firm including 
introducers or appointed representatives are connected to it. So its clear that YCPs 
introducer agreement with CMIM would always have made this exclusion unavailable too.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr C, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mr C previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr C paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as itencouraged Mr C to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr C thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr C would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr C was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. Our 
investigators conversation with Mr C confirmed this. So I think the most he would have 
reasonably understood was that he was getting an appropriately qualified opinion on 
whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of 
PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that Mr C misunderstood CMIMs role if it now 
considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. And at a fundamental level, I 
dont think his inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear Trustee letter materially alters the 
outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be 
received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr C) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr C to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Cs investment
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
In any event, its just as difficult to see how advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 could not 
be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, and says other regulations may specify further criteria. Owing to its small 
size, most of the regulations in the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 
2005 dont cover Mr Cs SSAS. But regulation 7 does and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instructions CGL required Mr C to sign. 
And I cant fairly say it was possible for Mr C to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, 
and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of that SSAS. Furthermore, amongst the FCAs Principles CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if
YCP passed on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later found theyd 
signed up for its DFM service. That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to 
Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly apt here, as it refers to the care CMIM 
should take in formulating advice (whether thats a personal recommendation or not). 
In observance of these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM 
could reasonably take:
1.Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr C at all; or
2.Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr C, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
Note that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not amount to 
promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr C directly, rather than supplying it
via third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach 
Mr C, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was 
positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or wanted to 
ensure it made direct personal recommendations, I accept its possible that those parties 
would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable 
outcome. However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr C was required to 
take couldnt be given by just any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given by a 
person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of that Act 
(prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated 
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected by the regulator; and the consequences of them giving advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Mr C at all, and it chose not to take 
that route. So I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of a proper 
personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr C to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those of PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. 
So it ought to have known that investment in UCIS (particularly for an unsophisticated retail 
investor) shouldnt take up more than a small part of the investors overall assets  if their 
attitude to risk even allows them to make such an investment at all.
Mr Cs CMC has told us that he was, at most, a medium risk investor. That seems to be 
reflected in the choices of portfolio when he later moved to Organic and Zurich  and 
although Mr C had very little other savings or investments he had another occupational 
pension that gave him further capacity to take risk with this one. But that doesnt mean a 
holding of over 50% of the pension in TRG was suitable for such a risk appetite. 
TRG was an off-plan, offshore property development subject to a variety of currency, 
counterparty, construction and occupancy risks and was typically unsuited to an 
inexperienced investor like Mr C who wasnt wanting to take high risks. Ive also taken into 
account here that Mr C had passed age 55 and was putting his pension into drawdown, 
meaning he would potentially need to access further sums as income  which he later did. 
An illiquid investment forming the majority of the pension was a potential barrier to doing so.
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being promoted to Mr C was in order to 
invest in TRG. And looking at the timeframes involved in this case, and from my experience 
of other cases, I think its likely at the time Mr C received CMIMs dear Trustee letter, LV= 
would have been yet to transfer the funds. So I need to consider how he would have acted, if 
CMIM had made a proper personal recommendation that didnt involve TRG. 
Mr C has indicated to our investigator that this would have given him second thoughts about 
investing. As he would have been reliant on CMIMs advice as an unsophisticated investor 
thats a credible argument. He suggested he might then have sought a second opinion, but 
as I said above, I think its reasonable to conclude that other regulated firms should also 
have advised against TRG. And there is a reason consumers are referred to regulated firms 
such as Mr C already was being in this case  to obtain qualified advice.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also 
have played further into the checks Mr Cs existing provider would have been carrying out to 
mitigate against pension liberation/scams  these might have involved asking him if he was 
being advised by a regulated adviser, for example.
Mr C didnt have particularly close ties to making the investments recommended: hed simply 
been cold-called. As CMIM itself realises, it was brought on board to legitimise Mr Cs 
investment in TRG. But its advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It should 
have made very clear that it was unsuitable for him. Once it had given that advice I cant 
safely say it could easily have been undone by any attempts to refer Mr C to other advisers. 
And they needed advice in favour of the TRG investment to comply with PA95, so I think it 
most likely that Mr C would have cancelled his request to transfer from LV= to the SSAS because the advice he was getting didnt support the investments being proposed.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Cs losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I
understand the argument that it should have been apparent to CGL that the dear Trustee
letter couldnt satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know
whether Mr C intends to complain about CGLs actions as administrator, but occupational
schemes arent within the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a
higher bar against financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and
rules they must follow. So its also understandable that Mr C has chosen to bring this
complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Cs own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account,
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services.
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr C as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.
I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr C would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him 
to CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say 
that on the balance of probabilities Mr C would still have gone ahead with transferring his 
pension in order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly. And here, Im persuaded on 
the balance of probabilities that Mr C would have heeded the proper advice he was told he 
would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr C in the position he would have been in, 
had he not gone ahead with the transfer from LV= to the SSAS.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact LV= to obtain a 
notional value for Mr Cs former policy as at the date of my final decision, assuming that it 
continued to be invested in the same funds it was at the point it was transferred out. As a 
condition of accepting this decision, Mr C will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this 
information. CMIM should check that no further income payments have been taken from the 
SSAS than those Ive outlined above. The gross amounts of these payments will all need to 
be allowed for accordingly in the notional value requested.
The actual value of Mr Cs CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the DFM 
arrangements used) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from the notional 
value to arrive at Mr Cs initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding administration 
charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That seems to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of it. The actual value used in the calculations should include anything 
CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company, as a member of 
which Mr C holds the TRG investment, should be consulted to achieve this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the investment from CGL SSAS it should give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. In that event its also fair that 
Mr C should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS 
and move to a potentially cheaper arrangement. I recently asked the investigator to 
remind CMIM on this case that to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at the current tariff to 
the initial loss amount, to give a reasonable period of time for the SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not
actually buying the investment from the SSAS.
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from any value it thinks remains in 
the investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Mr C instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr Cs losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need 
to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mr C to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay it direct to Mr 
C. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, and hes already withdrawn his tax-free 
cash sum, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
CMIM must also pay Mr C £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr C in a 
clear, simple format.
If LV= cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for this policy 
and switch that for the notional value in its calculations. As I said above, Mr C seems to have 
been willing to take some risk to get a higher return. So I consider that the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Index on a Total Return basis would be the appropriate benchmark to use.
This index is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. It doesnt mean that Mr C would specifically have made investments that exactly mirrored the return on this benchmark. For that reason CMIM should not be 
deducting investment costs or other charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here 
is that the sort of funds Mr C would have remained invested in with LV= (if a notional value is 
unavailable) would typically have performed broadly in line with this benchmark; 
notwithstanding the charges (which would have been lower than the SSAS in any event). It 
is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of compensation.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Mr Cs overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment. But Ive reached 
the conclusion that Mr C would have had no reason to be transferring his pension from LV= 
at all, but for CMIMs failings  and I dont think it likely LV= would have permitted DFM in 
the type of plan Mr C held.
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mr C back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider which it seems were encouraged by the very same 
third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with (in a way which did not act in the 
best interests of Mr C and its other clients).
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Cs loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Cs rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman