DRN-4229527
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H are unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a 
claim.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs H have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten By Aviva. 
Mrs H made a claim in March 2020. She saw a consultant and underwent treatment. Due to 
Covid-19 Mrs H wasnt able to attend any further appointments until November 2021. She 
was referred back to her consultant as her condition had worsened. 
Aviva said Mrs Hs condition met their definition of a chronic condition. 
Mr B and Mrs H complained as they didnt think Aviva had fairly classed the condition as 
chronic and were unhappy with the limitations and deadlines applied to the cover. 
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, they referred their complaint to this Service. 
Mrs H needed surgery and Aviva agreed to cover this which went ahead in May 2022. 
Aviva limited the amount of follow up care to a specific date but then agreed to cover 
consultations up to March 2023. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found Aviva had acted reasonably by offering 
to review additional medical information to fully consider the conditions Mrs H was being 
treated for. 
Mr B and Mrs H disagreed and said they wanted an Ombudsman to review the matter as 
they werent happy that Aviva were time-limiting cover before Mrs Hs consultant had 
discharged her from care. And they wanted Aviva to agree cover from the core policy for a 
post operative consultation and follow ups.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Avivas offer to review the medical information before agreeing 
to cover further treatment was fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy covers treatment of acute conditions and does not cover chronic conditions. The 
policy terms say: 
An acute condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment which aims to return a member to the state of health they were in 
immediately before suffering from it, or which leads to their full recovery.
A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of 
the following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
-it requires a members rehabilitation or for them to be specially trained to cope 
with it
-it continues indefinitely 
-it has no known cure 
-it comes back or is likely to come back.
Avivas system notes show that Mrs H had a history of abdominal symptoms which had been 
investigated since 2018. On that basis, Aviva said the treatment of those symptoms met the 
definition of chronic. I dont think that was an unreasonable conclusion for Aviva to reach 
based on the medical information it had. 
Mr B and Mrs H disagreed with Aviva and following correspondence back and forth, it 
agreed to cover treatment and Mrs H had an operation. Following this, it requested further 
information from Mrs Hs treating consultants and agreed to cover further consultations until 
the end of March 2023. 
Mr B and Mrs H were unhappy with the deadlines set by Aviva and said cover should have 
continued until Mrs H had been discharged and shouldnt be stopped or limited, using 
arbitrary dates.
But that isnt how the policy works. As the policy provides cover for acute conditions which 
are likely to respond quickly to treatment, I dont think setting deadlines and dates was 
unreasonable. Aviva is entitled to review medical evidence before deciding whether to 
continue providing cover. And I am satisfied it managed expectations in relation to what it 
considered to be a chronic condition.
Although Mrs H was unable to see a consultant quickly due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Aviva 
did agree to and authorised the treatment she required. It also paid £100 compensation for 
delays and an apology relating to an initial complaint regarding her treatment which she 
accepted at the time.  
Mr B and Mrs H say the outstanding issue which remains is the date Aviva set to end cover 
by 31 March 2023. But I dont think the deadline was an unreasonable one based on the 
need to review further medical evidence after this date and also because the policy covers 
acute conditions which respond quickly to treatment. 
Aviva has since confirmed that it had reviewed further medical evidence and authorised 
treatment post March 2023 from the option 2 benefit as outlined in the policy. The policy 
and benefit renewed from 1 June 2023. As Aviva acted in line with the policy terms in 
relation to follow up treatment, I dont think this is unreasonable and so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Avivas actions have been reasonable so I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman