DRN-3818268
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding the
reporting of fraudulent transactions on his mothers account.
What happened
Mr S contacted HSBC as hed noticed large transactions on his mothers account  for whom
he held a lasting power of attorney  which hadnt been made or authorised by either his
mother or himself. Mr S wasnt happy with how HSBC responded to his notifying them of the 
potential fraud, including how HSBC conducted its investigation or that HSBC told the police 
that they suspected that he was the party committing the fraud. So, he raised a complaint.
 
HSBC looked at Mr Ss complaint. They felt that they had followed an appropriate process
having been informed by Mr S of his fraud concerns, and they explained to Mr S that they
had no record of anyone from HSBC contacting the police. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted
unfairly towards Mr S in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold
the complaint. Mr S remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 October 2022 as follows:
Its clear that Mr S feels strongly about this matter, and I can understand, given the 
difficult personal circumstances that Mr S has described, how upsetting this ongoing 
matter might have been for him.
In their response to Mr Ss complaint, HSBC explained they have no record of 
anyone from HSBC contacting the police in regard to reporting the suspected fraud 
undertaken on his mothers account. However, its clear from a review of the fraud 
investigation notes provided to this service by HSBC that Mr S was given incorrect 
information here, and that HSBC did notify the police that suspected fraud was taking 
place after being alerted to it by Mr S.
It should be noted immediately here that HSBC notifying the police about suspected 
fraud is exactly what would be expected of HSBC in these circumstances, and so I 
dont consider that HSBC have acted unfairly by doing so. But I feel that HSBC did 
act unfairly by declaring to Mr S that they hadnt contacted the police. And while I 
appreciate this was most likely an error on behalf of the HSBC staff member that 
investigated Mr Ss complaint, it seems clear to me that, as a result of being given 
this incorrect information by HSBC, Mr S has incurred a degree of upset during a 
difficult personal time that he ought reasonably not have incurred.
As such, Ill be provisionally upholding this aspect of Mr Ss complaint and instructing 
HSBC to make a payment of £200 to Mr S, which I feel provides fair compensation 
for the trouble and distress that being given this incorrect information may have 
caused. However, I wont be provisionally upholding any further aspects of Mr Ss 
complaint, for the following reasons.
Mr S has explained that a member of the police told him that HSBC had advised the 
police that they suspected that Mr S was the party responsible for the fraudulent 
activity on his mothers account. But theres no evidence of this in HSBCs 
investigation notes, which instead note that fraud is suspected and that the police 
have been informed but which make no statement as to any specific individual 
believed to be responsible for that fraud.
Importantly, the scope of what this service can consider is limited to the actions of 
HSBC. And while I can appreciate that Mr S may be unhappy with the actions of the 
police, who were notified of the potential fraud by HSBC, I can confirm that I dont 
feel that HSBC acted unfairly by notifying the police as they did, and that theres no 
evidence that HSBC told the police that Mr S should be considered as a suspect  
and also that I wouldnt hold HSBC accountable for the actions of the police after 
fairly notifying them of the fraud concerns.
Mr S is also unhappy that HSBCs fraud prevention systems didnt flag and stop the
fraudulent transactions in the first instance. However, while businesses such as 
HSBC are required to have fraud prevention systems in place, these systems arent 
infallible, and fraudulent activity can still take place. This has been explained by 
HSBC in their response to Mr Ss complaint, and I dont feel that any further action 
beyond that explanation is required.
Mr S is also unhappy at how he was treated when he went into branch to notify 
HSBC of the potential fraud. Its clear from HSBCs notes and Mr Ss own testimony 
that the discussion between Mr S and HSBC didnt go well. But I feel that HSBC have 
followed an appropriate process here. And while I appreciate that Mr S may have felt 
that a more urgent process should have been undertaken, I dont feel that HSBC 
should be considered as acting unfairly or unreasonably by following the processes 
for reported suspected fraud that they have in place. And I note that ultimately, the 
result of HSBCs investigation was that the balance of the fraudulent transactions 
was reimbursed back to Mr Hs mothers account.
All of which means that my provisional decision here is that Ill be upholding this 
complaint in Mr Ss favour on the limited basis that HSBC did provide him incorrect 
information in their response to his complaint about whether theyd notified the police 
 for which, as detailed above, Im instructing HSBC to pay compensation of £200 to 
Mr S.
Both Mr S and HSBC have confirmed they accept my provisional decision, although Mr S did 
explain that he remained deeply dissatisfied with the actions of HSBC and that he feels there 
was deliberate malice towards him on HSBCs part. 
I can appreciate why Mr S may feel this way and I can confirm both that this service takes 
such allegations very seriously and that Ive taken what Mr S has said into account when 
arriving at a final decision. But from the other information available to me  which I 
appreciate may be limited, especially in regard to any face to face conversations that may I have taken place  I dont see any evidence of malice on HSBCs part. But I do see clear 
evidence of what appears to be a mistake. And its for this mistake, and the consequences of 
it on Mr S, that Ive awarded what I feel is fair compensation to Mr S, as per my provisional 
decision letter above.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but it follows that my final decision 
here will be that I uphold this complaint in Mr Ss favour on the basis as outlined in my 
provisional decision above. I hope that Mr S will understand, given what Ive explained, why 
Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £200 to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman