DRN-4521512
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Hyperformance Ltd (trading as insureyourmotor.com) dealt with 
her renewal after she added a named driver to her policy. 
What happened
Miss A has car insurance with her insurer arranged through Hyperformance Ltd. 
In April 2021 Miss A contacted her insurer to amend the vehicle details on her policy and 
also add her brother as a named driver. There was an additional premium for the changes of 
approximately £120. 
In August 2021 Miss A was sent a renewal invitation from her insurer. Since the policy 
wouldnt automatically renew Miss A needed to contact the insurer to take out the policy. 
During that call Miss A says she agreed to renew on the same basis as last years policy 
since there hadnt been any changes. 
In June 2022 Miss As car was clamped and impounded. Miss As brother needed a copy of 
the insurance certificate in order to get the vehicle released. Miss A wasnt able to locate a 
copy so she called the insurer to request one. 
Miss A says when the documents were received she noticed there were no additional drivers 
on the policy. So after she got the car released she called the insurer again to find out what 
happened. 
Miss A was asked whether she checked the policy details when it came up for renewal. She 
says it was a renewal of the previous policy so she cant remember if she read it. Miss A 
says she was told someone would call her back but they didnt.  
Miss A says when she finally got a call back she was told her brother could be added to the 
policy for an additional £189 for the remainder of the policy, which was three months. But 
she didnt want to do this and was told someone would call back. No-one did. 
Miss A called back again and asked for a copy of her policy. When she was sent a copy she 
noted her brothers name had been added to the policy, but she hadnt agreed to the 
amendment.
At the end of July 2022 Miss As brother was added onto the policy and the additional 
premium was waived, together with the administration charge of £50. Miss A wasnt happy 
with the service she received and so she complained.
Hyperformance accept the renewal documents didnt include any additional drivers, despite 
one being added part way through the previous years policy. It said the renewal documents 
were sent to Miss A and she was asked to check the details were accurate prior to renewal. 
Miss A didnt do this and subsequently confirmed the policy renewal. And amendments to 
the policy after the renewal would likely trigger an increase in premium. Hyperformance says 
had Miss A informed it of the correct information during the renewal call the premium would 
have been adjusted accordingly. Hyperformance accept the additional driver was added 
back on the policy without Miss As consent, and the level of service and misinformation 
provided wasnt as it should have been. It said as a result it agreed to remove the admin fee 
and the additional premium to resolve the complaint. 
Miss A didnt agree and so referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into things for her. She said she was upholding the complaint and recommended 
Hyperformance pay Miss A £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
matter. 
Hyperformance didnt agree and said it had resolved the matter at no extra cost to Miss A. 
Miss A disputed the offer of compensation since she said key points had not been 
considered. She said it took her six weeks to try and resolve the matter. She spoke to a 
number of different people in trying to sort the matter out and was promised call backs but 
didnt receive them. Miss A says she also had to deal with issues in her family relationships 
as a result of the error on the policy.  Because neither party agreed the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said; 
First I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss A. I dont doubt the 
frustration and upset she suffered as a result of her brother no longer being named on her 
policy coupled with the time and effort it took to sort out.
The service provided
I can see Miss A has had a frustrating experience with Hyperformance. She has been 
provided with different explanations and has been caused trouble and upset in getting an 
answer from Hyperformance. 
I have listened to all the calls provided to me by Hyperformance and have heard Miss A 
being told the following;
Promises for call backs that dont happen 
Being told by renewals that customer care needed to deal with the matter, then being 
told by customer care that renewals should deal with it. 
Being told her brother had never been named on the policy, and then told he was. 
Being told an additional premium would need to be paid to add her brother to the 
policy, and then he was added without payment. The payment was then requested 
before it was waived
Being told the error was due to Hyperformance and then being told Miss A would 
need to pay more for the policy as a result.
The renewal call 
I have listened to the renewal call between Miss A and Hyperformance. Miss A is asked if 
she received the renewal documents and she says she did. Hyperformance asked her if the 
documents were correct in respect of people allowed to drive the car, car details, etc. Miss A 
has a quick check through the policy and says the details are correct. So the renewal 
proceeds on that basis. Miss A confirmed the policy documents had been sent to her. She had some weeks between 
the renewal documents being sent to her and the date the previous policy expired to notify 
Hyperformance if there were any changes that needed to be made. I havent seen anything 
in the notes to suggest this happened. And so I dont think Hyperformance acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in renewing the policy in line with Miss As instructions, and I think 
there was opportunity to check and amend the policy either before or after it renewed. 
Renewal documents 
Miss A amended her previous policy to update the vehicle details and add a named driver. 
She paid £50 in administration fees to make this change. So when her policy documents 
were sent to her prior to renewal its reasonable that she thought no material changes would 
have been made to the policy and that it was largely as the previous year. Indeed she 
confirms as much during the renewal call. 
Hyperformance accept the error in not including the named driver on the renewal documents 
so when Miss A called to renew she assumed he was already on the policy, as he had been 
the previous year. 
But it is for Miss A to ensure the policy suits her needs and the information provided is 
accurate.
Conclusion
When a business makes a mistake, as Hyperformance accepts it has done here, we expect 
it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the 
impact the error had on the consumer.
Ultimately Miss A had a policy with a named driver and when it renewed the named driver 
wasnt on it. This meant the price Miss A agreed to during the renewal call was incorrect 
since it wasnt based the policy with a named driver  but Miss A believed the price included 
her brother and so proceeded with the renewal on that basis. 
I think Hyperformances error caused Miss A stress and upset when she wasnt able to 
ascertain what had happened and resolve it quickly and easily. Hyperformance added the 
named driver to the policy at no extra cost to Miss A and waived its £50 admin charge to 
make the amendment. And I think this is fair. 
Our investigator recommended Hyperformance pay a further £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter. The Ombudsman Services approach to awards for 
compensation can be found on our website. Essentially our role is not to punish the 
business. 
It is clear to me that Miss A has gone to a lot of trouble contacting Hyperformance Ltd and 
this service in order to resolve her concerns. Miss As brother was also not insured to drive 
her vehicle when she thought he was, and the whole matter has caused her a significant 
level of stress. And so to reflect this, and the inconvenience caused, I think compensation in 
the amount of £350 is fair and reasonable and is broadly in line with the awards which we 
make for trouble and upset as set out on our website. So I intend to direct Hyperformance to 
pay Miss A £350 in resolution of her complaint. 
I know my answer will be disappointing to Miss A who has provided compelling testimony 
about the effects of the complaint on her life and health. However, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to ask Hyperformance to compensate her for everything that happened following 
the complaint. Much of it wasnt foreseeable and Im not able to hold Hyperformance responsible. And Miss A contributed to the matter by failing to check her documents before 
renewing the policy. 
I invited both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider. 
Hyperformance accepted my findings. Miss A didnt add anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that Hyperformance agreed with my findings and Miss A had nothing 
further to add to the findings set out in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here 
and which forms part of this final decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to 
resolve the dispute. For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss As complaint.  
Putting things right
Hyperformance should pay Miss A £350 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss As complaint and direct Hyperformance Ltd 
(trading as insureyourmotor.com) to pay Miss A £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman