DRN-3242753
The complaint
Ms H and Mr M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC misled them about the costs of an 
international money transfer resulting in them receiving less than expected. 
What happened
Ms H and Mr M visited a Barclays Bank in February 2021 to discuss making an international 
transfer to the UK. They say they were told about the fluctuating exchange rates and asked 
about any additional costs or margins. They say they were told there were no additional 
costs. Based on this they made the transfer of €135,0000 on 22 February 2021. They 
received £115,099 which was lower than expected and they found the exchange rate used 
was different to the average exchange rate for the day due to Barclays applying a margin. 
Ms H an Mr M raised a complaint and on the second response say that Barclays admitted to 
including a margin in the exchange rate. They say they were provided with misinformation 
both in the discussion about the international transfer and in the initial response to their 
complaint. They want to be compensated either for the difference in the exchange rate used 
and the average for the day or for Barclays margin on the transaction to be refunded. 
Barclays said that the information provided in the meeting with Ms H and Mr M was based 
on the information available on its website. It said the costs of transfers were set out in its 
terms and conditions and that the rate at which the conversion took place was calculated by 
applying a margin to the Barclays Reference Exchange Rate at the time the transaction was 
processed. It didnt accept that it had done anything wrong.  
Our investigator said that the terms and conditions were available on Barclays website and 
these made it clear that a margin could be applied for an international transfer. However, he 
noted the discussion that happened in branch and the notes that had been provided by Ms H 
which included the comments no transaction fee. He said while there was no specific 
transaction fee a margin was included in the exchange rate and this wasnt made clear. He 
didnt think Barclays was required to reimburse the margin or pay the different between the 
market rate and rate used as the correct information was available to Ms H and Mr M in the 
terms and conditions and the approach taken was standard practice and so had the 
transaction taken place elsewhere it was likely a margin would likely have been applied. 
However, he did think that Barclays could have provided clearer information. Because of this 
and the disappointment caused, he thought Barclays should pay £250 compensation. 
Barclays agreed with our investigators view and paid the compensation of £250 on 7 
December 2021.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that there was a lack of 
transparency regarding the margin (or fees) applied by Barclays which meant they were mis-
led into making the transaction through Barclays rather than a competitor. She said the 
terms and conditions said that a margin may be applied which was ambiguous and that in 
branch it was confirmed to them that no margin would be applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms H and Mr M are upset that they received a lower amount than they 
expected when they carried out an international money transfer. They visited a branch to 
discuss the transfer and based on the discussion believed there to be no fees. The notes 
they wrote at the time of the discussion record no transfer fees. I have looked at the 
transaction and there were no fees applied and so this information was technically correct.
The outstanding issue relates to the margin included in the exchange rate used. Barclays 
has explained that the rate used for the transfer is calculated by applying a margin to the 
Barclays Reference Exchange Rate. The banks terms and conditions say that:
Well convert the payment into the currency of your account using an exchange rate, made 
up of a reference exchange rate (which changes to reflect currency market movements), to 
which we may add a margin. You can ask us for an indication of the rate at any time, but as 
the exchange rate changes to reflect currency market movements, we wont be able to tell 
you the actual rate until we receive the payment. 
I note Ms Hs comments about this being ambiguous due to the terms saying a margin may 
be applied but I think the terms provide enough information about how the exchange rate is 
calculated and that an indicative rate can be obtained. I have looked at the information 
provided by Barclays for Ms H and Mr Ms transaction and can see that the client exchange 
rate was applied (which consists of the reference rate and margin). Therefore, I find that 
Barclays applied the relevant exchange rate at the time of the transaction, and I cannot say 
that Ms H and Mr M were treated unfairly.
That said, I understand why Ms H and Mr M say they werent given complete information at 
the meeting they had to discuss the transaction. The Barclays adviser has said that the 
terms and conditions werent provided and while I appreciate this may not always be 
needed, I think that as Ms H and Mr M were asking about the costs involved further clarity 
could have been provided about the margin that would be applied. I note Ms H saying that 
they were told there would be no margin, but I also see the reference in the notes just refers 
to there being no transfer fees. 
In conclusion, I do not find that Barclays did anything wrong by applying the rate it did when 
exchanging Ms H and Mr Ms money. It used its client rate and as set out in its terms and 
conditions this included a margin. I do not find this unusual or unreasonable. I do however 
think it could have provided clearer information to Ms H and Mr M when they asked about 
the costs of the transfer. It was confirmed that there were no transfer fees which was correct, 
but it doesnt appear that clear information was given about how the exchange rate was set, 
and that it included a margin. Because of this, while I do not think that Barclays is required to 
refund its margin or pay a difference between the rate it used and a market rate, I agree with 
our investigator that it should compensate Ms H an Mr M for the upset and disappointment 
caused by this issue. In this case I think the £250 recommended and since paid by Barclays 
is reasonable.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank should pay compensation of £250 for the upset caused. I understand this 
happened in December 2021 and so no further action is required.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I understand Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
paid the recommended compensation and so no further action is required.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman