DRN-1896426
The complaint
Mr U has complained about Aviva Health UK Limiteds handling of his claim under his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr U contacted Aviva to explain that hed been experiencing particular 
symptoms and his GP had referred him to a specialist, though he didnt yet know which type 
of specialist. Aviva confirmed it would provide cover for the treatment of his condition but 
advised him to contact it again when he knew the name, or type, of the specialist to whom 
hed been referred.
Later in June 2018, Mr U contacted Aviva to confirm the name of the specialist and said that 
a consultation had been arranged. Aviva agreed to provide cover for the consultation and 
asked Mr U to get in touch following this to advise of any further treatment he might need.
In July 2018, Mr U contacted Aviva saying he was at a hospital and he needed his policy 
details because the hospital had asked for these. Aviva provided the details to Mr U.
In December 2018, the hospital contacted Aviva to seek authorisation for a procedure which 
Mr U was due to undergo. Aviva said it didnt know about the planned procedure and so it 
asked the hospital to tell Mr U to get in touch with it so he could explain. In January 2019, 
the hospital called Aviva two further times but each time Aviva told it that it still hadnt heard 
from Mr U.
Later in January 2019, Aviva received an invoice from the hospital relating to treatment for 
Mr U. Aviva wouldnt pay the invoice because it didnt have sufficient information to confirm 
the treatment was eligible under the terms of the policy. It wrote to Mr U asking him to call it. 
Mr U didnt contact Aviva until March 2019 when he made a complaint to it. He said that he 
should have undergone surgery for his condition in the summer of 2018 and that the delay 
was Avivas fault. He also said he was receiving demands for payment of invoices for 
treatment which hed understood that Aviva would cover. He outlined the damage these 
matters had caused to his physical and mental health.
Aviva explained that it wasnt responsible for providing Mr Us medical care and that it relied 
on him to keep it up to date with his medical appointments so that it could confirm whether 
his treatment would be covered under the policy. It therefore didnt accept that it had been 
responsible for any delays in Mr Us treatment. It said it had paid all treatment costs except 
for a £56 invoice for MRSA screening but said it needed Mr U to contact it to explain why this 
treatment had been required before it could agree to pay this. Nonetheless, it acknowledged 
that when the hospital had contacted it in December 2018 and January 2019, as well as 
asking the hospital to tell Mr U to get in touch, it should have tried to contact Mr U directly to 
obtain an update on his treatment. It offered £50 compensation for this failing.
Mr U was unhappy at Avivas response. He referred his complaint to us. He said that when 
hed switched to Aviva as his insurance provider in 2005 it was because it had assured him 
that, in view of his pre-existing mental health problems, it would take care of everything if he 
were ever to need treatment. He said Aviva had repeated this assurance when he had 
contacted it at the start of his claim.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered that 
it wasnt Avivas role to arrange Mr Us treatment and there was no evidence, either from 
2005 or June 2018, to suggest that Aviva had led Mr U to believe otherwise. He concluded 
that Aviva hadnt been responsible for Mr Us apparent lack of treatment between July 2018 
and January 2019. He noted that, with the exception of the MRSA screening, all invoices 
had now been paid by Aviva but he considered that Mr U needed to contact Aviva to explain 
why this treatment was necessary. However, he considered that when it was made aware of 
his impending treatment, Aviva should have tried to contact Mr U directly rather than simply 
asked the hospital to relay a message. He considered its offer of £50 compensation was too 
little and it should pay total compensation of £150.
Aviva accepted the investigators findings but Mr U did not. He asked that the case be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U thinks that Aviva was responsible for taking care of everything in respect of his 
treatment. However, this is not how private medical insurance generally, or this policy in 
particular, works. The policyholder is responsible for seeking treatment from medical 
professionals and for keeping Aviva up to date with the planned treatment. Avivas role is to 
provide cover, where appropriate, for the cost of that treatment. 
Mr U says Aviva assured him when he first took out cover with it in 2005 that, in view of his 
mental health difficulties, it would take care of everything in respect of any treatment he 
needed; he says it was this assurance which persuaded him to switch insurance provider to 
Aviva. However, a recording of the sales phone call is no longer available (which I dont find 
surprising given the passage of time) and Mr U has provided no other evidence to support 
that this is what Aviva said. I cant therefore reasonably conclude that Aviva made such a 
promise.
Mr U also said that a similar assurance was made by Aviva when he called it in June 2018 to 
register his claim. However, I have listened to both telephone calls made by Mr U during that 
month and am satisfied that Aviva gave no indication that it would be arranging Mr Us 
treatment on his behalf.
In view of the above, Im satisfied that Aviva had no responsibility for the fact that Mr U had 
to wait until January 2019 before he was due to undergo an operation.
Aviva has also said it has now met all the outstanding invoices with the exception of an 
invoice for £56 relating to MRSA screening. I consider it is reasonable for Aviva to not pay 
that invoice until it has received further details from Mr U to enable it to confirm the treatment 
was eligible under the terms of the policy. I dont know if Mr U has yet provided these details 
to Aviva but, if not, it is up to him to do this should he want the invoice to be paid.
Aviva has acknowledged it should have done more when the hospital contacted it in 
December 2018, and a further two times the following month, requesting authorisation for a 
procedure which Mr U was due to undergo. I agree that simply asking the hospital to get 
Mr U to contact it was insufficient; it should have been more proactive and tried to contact him directly. Ive no reason to believe that Avivas failure to do this had any impact on Mr Us 
treatment. However, I consider it may have resolved sooner any doubt as to whether cover 
would be provided and thereby would potentially have helped Mr Us peace of mind. 
I consider that Avivas offer of £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr U 
by this poor service was insufficient. I consider it should increase its compensation payment 
by £100 to make a total payment of £150. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva 
Health UK Limited to pay Mr U a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman